ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u1	President would like to announce that he was received yesterday by a council of the Mission for a change in the Northern Council of Iceland, such as Article 16. A convergence between committees, so that Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdóttir takes his place in Hödund, Sæmundsson of Þórhallsson, who lives as chief, Egilsdóttir the daughter of Eglísdótir, the daughter of Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and Arnardóttir Earnar,'s daughter, take the place of the Zöstein Þorsteinn of Sæmund.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u2	Mr. President. I make a sound about the President's conference board in view of our being here at the longest legislature in history as I am expressed. On September 15, 2015, a request to report to the highest level was submitted. Economic and financial Ministers requesting further information on the implementation of secure real estate loans than previously shown, including information was requested on how the total amount spent to reduce the price-separation bar was distributed to all the candidates in 2014, the share of income gaps, and the number of responders behind each range of income, but also by property status. Mr. President. We are well into September a year later. I've been told here that this report was submitted by the Ministry of Economics and Economics, but the report has not yet arrived. I'm going to wonder how much I'm gonna do. Ministers intend to carry out their duties to the council when they get away with it for a year to fail to respond to a request from nine members of the General Assembly. This information must be available and highest. So a minister did more than simply return the information, saying that he does not have it if he does not have it. Of course, it's supposed to be a long time ago, Mr. President. This is not welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u3	The president will further request that this report be submitted and will analyze the reasons why it was not possible to get to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u4	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir In this regard, the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir. This work is an act of extreme shame and that this may be a year's delay in responding to a request for the biggest campaign promise, of the grand download. You're gonna ask yourself, "Is there any questions at the highest level? The secretary of the budget and the secretary of the economy did not trust to inform us about the answers. There's a question about income, possessions, who got the subsidies. Is it not, as it has been noted, that there were rich people with the right money and support? I allow myself to state that this is why the report has not been submitted. If I don't get any other explanation, I'll stick with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u5	Consider: Prime Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u6	Mr. President. Now the Specialist Party has issued an election that, if the company remains in the government, it will ensure that the elderly and the desperate will have at least 300 of you. K. Pension. That in itself is good and blessed, in harmony with our emphasis in the smaller parts. True, it is. The minister offers suggestions that result in a total of three times during the council on the last budgets and budgets. But getting better men is the best thing to do. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on the proposed changes to the highest degree. A minister says that in terms of social security, the majority of the contributions have been made. The welfare committee. It is disappointing to see how the changes made by most part are implemented and strongly criticized that they do not benefit all who need it. The new bill with which the changes were made is about the simple system, but there was a great dissatisfaction that was not being raised in the bill as it looked out when it was submitted first, and there were no holidays. The highest reaction. Governments to the criticism of the proposals are raising home remuneration by 52% so that those who live alone receive 280 of you. K. of January 1, 2017. It is helpful to those who live alone, while the limit for household chores is increasing immediately. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How does he react to the criticism that this is actually a tax for separation? The difference between paying for those who live alone and those who live together will be much greater. Then there are the suggestions for microchiping, making it a higher category that cuts across a dollar. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Isn't he allowing a good opportunity to go by to fulfill the campaign campaign campaign program before elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u7	A respectable president. I thank you for this inquiry. Although it may be most reasonable to direct it to a social and housing minister, I am both kindly and obliged to answer the policy of our candidates. It's been very clear that we've wanted to walk all the way through the system change during this terms and at least the last, as well as probably for a much longer time, to simplify the system of social security. I think I can state from this platform that there is a system that few people don't understand. Men have often said that explaining it may be only a few people in the insurance department. I think it's a very good step in simplifying the system to get it into one system with one degree of impairment, as expected by this change. You're right next door. In addition to this, we are making sure that what I thought was the head of the United States of America would agree with us in the forward movement that it was most important, i.e. to deal with the worst and to ensure the 300. K. improvements were made when we entered 2017. In fact, that's quite a bit before minimum wage turns 300 yards. K. Because they won't be until May 1st, 2018, under collective agreement. I would have thought we were quite agreed on that. Moreover, improving the cost of income would lead to paying less than a small deposit on a bank account or a low pension income income income, with no return payments. I would have thought that there were some good suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u8	Mr. President. It is true that the system of social security is complex and not everyone realizes how it works. That's why we celebrate in the Coalition of Simpleity, but the proposed changes are in order to discriminate people in the pension system as well as to cut a cent against the raise of a cent to despondency. It's unacceptable. It's not just us in the United States, it's those who have to rely on these payments. Today, the vote will be paid from a smaller section of the budget board for payment from May 1, 2016, on the basis of the last bargain contracts by sensibilities and pensioners. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he not believe that the spirit of the social insurance laws is to protect the pensioner from the failings, not that they should make them the poorest of all? Doesn't he think it's fair for pensioners to get their money back from May 1st, 2016?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u9	To be honest, I'm a little surprised by what I'm saying. A senator, president of the United States, does not agree with us on the importance of meeting the worst and declaring that the Controversy will support these suggestions. In fact, the debate about whether payment will take place on January 1 or on May 1 makes it necessary for us to ask ourselves, " Do I not have to harmonize with this? ' The fact is, when reforms rise on January 1, 2017, those who accept the compensation are before the general market, the salary market. For four months, they will have their compensations improved, on the basis of that price foundation. That's what everybody knows, and that's what everybody gets. [[Up front.]] If we were to move them to May 1 and we were all at the same time, we'd be able to stop this confusion on retrospective payments. On May 1, 2017, improvements are greatly increased by the price change this year, everybody knows. I'm afraid I can't answer that, but they didn't get the system change like the older citizens' National Association, so they're gonna have to wait. And they're waiting for the next step. We're taking an enormous step. There are 10 billion people who will go to older citizens during the changes we are making right now. [[The president calls.]] Every senior citizen will be able to find his wallet.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u10	A respectable president. It is clear to everyone that the Council has been holding hands for some time, which is in everyday speech called the Backwaters bill. This is a fairly unusual case. This is a specific procedure for legal legislation. It is also unusual in view of the fact that there is a bill written in the Department of Employment and Development with some introduction to the Ministry of Presidency, although it represents almost entirely the issues and legislation in the work of the Environment and Resource Ministry. There are, in particular, changes in nature protection laws proposed in the bill, special effects on the Interrasium Convention - and doubts have been found that the bill will last - EEA regulations in environmental rights, planning laws, environmental assessment laws, etc. For this reason, it was decided here at the council, although it would have been most reasonable for the environment and transportation committee to be allowed access to the progress of the work committee. In the management of the case on the job board, it became clear to everyone that we needed the expertise of the Environment and Resource Ministry at the table. We on the Environment and Transport Committee specifically asked that the Ministry of Resources give their opinion of the impact of change in nature protection law and that the Ministry discussed whether the bill is in conflict with Iceland's commitments under the EEA Convention and the Government agreements. A week later, we received an answer that there was no material answer to that committee's question. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why didn't the Council Committee, the whole Senate Committee, the Environment and Transport Committee, a material answer, and who made the decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u11	A respectable president. I'm very kind to come here and answer this question why. A senator because I've felt that people are saying a little bit much about this subject, and actually it gives me quite a bit of a surprise. A letter came, the Ministry sent a letter to the pro committee as requested. It's very difficult for me as a minister to do something about it, though it may be. A senator does not like what is expressed in that letter, but certainly the letter was sent. Now I think we can start saving the big words because we're in another process after the ruling yesterday. In other words, it is now becoming more a matter of pursuing that decision, speaking again to the rural communities. The rule naturally states that there was more to specific morphological defects than to being material because the invalidation is actually based, not on discrepancies in the process of environmental assessment, but on rather and solely on the defect in the license unit. Now let's just wait and see. They're working hard to talk to all the participants and to find out what we'll do after this decision. But I feel that, although it might be good to try to challenge the Environment and Resource Minister, we must not be allowed to harm the Environment Ministry by doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u12	President. I wasn't asking how to react to the decision or to pray to the highest degree. Minister to feed him. I was asking a very simple question: Why did the Council of Congress not receive a material answer to a inquiry that involved the workspace of the Environment and Resource Ministry and who, a respectable president, decided that the Ministry of Justice at the Iceland Board did not respond to a panel on matters of opinion? Who made that decision? It was the highest. A minister who did that? If so, is it acceptable to the Minister's opinion that the Ministry of Justice does not answer when a Senate Committee wishes to answer opinions?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u13	A respectable president. I think the leader is totally aware of how this works at the Ministry. True, people work and prepare answers. They're working between departments, trying to get information and wondering how to answer, but ultimately it must be both the Ministry and the Minister who evaluate what goes on from the Ministry, that's a very obvious matter, and that's the way the work is. I would like to reiterate what is presented in this answer to the criticism that this conflicts with Iceland's commitments. We searched the bill for lawyers, regardless of the law firm in town, looking... [[Up front.]] Yes, an opinion and so the government approved it, including the one listed here, to conclude that the bill probably did not crash against the EEA principle or any other international commitment to Iceland. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This was quoted, and this made me feel that there was no need for another legal opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u14	A respectable president. I'm here to ask the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture on the impending teacher card that we'll see in the years and decades to come. According to Helgi Eiríkur son of Eyjólfsson, a recent training team in the teachers'class, only two thirds of newly graduated educators held in the country's basic schools after graduation. This suggests that one third of the newly graduated teachers did not go to work in the basic schools or the film schools of the country. In addition, Helgi's master essay shows that in the first five years after her work, people are very likely to retire from basic schools in their country. Men are more likely to quit teaching. I think it's very sobering. We see that there is no increase in the number of teachers in the ranks of the new nation. Recently, the number of students in the teachers'class has decreased by 60% since 2008. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how to handle this. What work is being done at the Ministry in order to make the teaching work more appealing? Now the pay has gone up to some level, but at the same time, research has increased. We're talking about being a teacher as good as a special job. It does not seem that pressure and education are reflected in pay. How do we make our teaching work more appealing?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u15	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. This is a very important case. With regard to the measures that have already been taken, it is true, as it were. A senator mentioned that the teacher's salary has increased. I would like to mention relatively recent dresser contracts with high school teachers, where their wages were substantially increased. In view of the rates of inflation during the contract, I don't think that the buypower of teachers'salary has ever increased as much, at least for a long time, and it has happened here in regard to the pay of high school teachers. It's quite arranged, and I think everyone understands, that the pay factor is extremely important. This government has emphasized that the teacher's reward would be raised, and of course it was disputed at the time. I well remember a discussion here at a conference hall and in the community, when those dresser contracts were made with high school teachers, as to whether they had not been overstepped. Various labor leaders and professional drivers felt that they had gone too far in those bargains, and the teacher's salary increased too much. I disagreed. I felt it necessary to increase the pay of teachers in the way they did. I would point out, a respectable president, that by deciding to go from four years to a three - year system at the high school, we too - although there are compelling reasons for this decision - to respond to the problems that arise. A senator mentions. A teacher's age combination is worse than before in terms of the fact that there are more older teachers, but by leaving a four - year system for a three - year relief system, this factor in high school is relieved. System changes in high school and considerable pay increases, which were, in fact, critical of the labor movement and others, have met this situation. This development must continue to be maintained, but I will come to more factors in my second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u16	A respectable president. My concerns and my questions may be more focused on high school and elementary school. Many good things have been done with regard to secondary education. We do, however, see that we do not get teachers at the basic school of the country. It is too much stress, they seem unable to carry out this assignment. There's no funding, there's no direct financial support in school business. It's natural on the hands of local societies, but not least the State. The secondary school is one thing, but the better conditions there are not the problems of high school, nor do the nurserys. Thirty percent of play-school personnel have a nursery teacher's education. There must be something we need to take very seriously. Why is this so? Why don't people stay out of school at elementary schools and at the film schools of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u17	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that it is not least the government's job to provide funding for elementary and acting schools. But it's wrong. These school levels are in the custody of the local community. Hv. A senator, of course, knows this. The state does not negotiate with teachers at that school level and does not run these institutions, these are local societies. [[Up front.]] No, the government is one thing, it's official. Officials, on the other hand, are divided into government, and these are the rural communities that have these schools, their business, and their collective agreements. I'd like to mention one mission that matters with regard to a question. Senator. In fact, Iceland's elementary school is well financed in all international contexts. On the other hand, we have been looking at, and having foreign parties cooperated with us to do so, the school policy without separation, how it has been conducted, whether we are financing the schools well enough in the light of the current policy. The teacher's position to enforce it is important, that is, one of the points we are considering, i.e. The teacher's work environment in light of these policies. That's one of the things we have to deal with. [[The president calls.]] This is certainly, and you're absolutely right. A senator, a problem, especially with elementary school and nursery. And we'll have to face it here in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u18	V.E.G. President. It was shown in the reply of the highest. Prime Minister for a question from when. paritaprevir The new Harðardóttir daughter that he was pleased with the adjustment of the share's proposal to the social security bill. He said: "These are good suggestions. I have a question for the highest. Social Affairs Minister, for either the advance party has been fooled by the Independence Party or by the forwarding party's support of the team's policy of increasing inequities in Iceland. The more part of the social security bill is making changes in the payment of single pensioners and pensioners who are living together. To reach the target by 280,000 bucks. for those who live alone in 2017, the numbers of older citizens and disability are increasing from present times. These differences and reductions will increase further in 2018, with the proposals of the greater part being achieved. I'd like to know why it's the highest. Social Affairs Ministers are prepared to groom pensioners for normal increases and why they are ready to increase their proportion of people alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u19	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows the bill that came in, and I recommended in line with the suggestions all political parties on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u20	...talks about the change of plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u21	Since then, the bill has been working on a welfare committee, and it has made comments to the bill, especially since it has been requested to set up a holiday limit, so we decided to suggest that a welfare committee should consider the possibility of setting $25,000. free income per income, equivalent to 300,000 dollars. every year. There's also another great deal of importance that I've put into this, making sure that pensioners receive comparable compensations and negotiated in a general labour market, so those who have least in our system, just as at the labour market, would get comparable dressbacks. As a result, certain changes are taken to restore the elderly pension system and make changes. Then, as has been done for a long time, I really hope that we can get together, unlike what happened on the Social Security Committee, for the benefit of organ change for pension workers instead of for them, as if I was very disappointed, when the government held together with the Micro-Communication Association to counter the similar blocs to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u22	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Minister didn't answer my questions. V.E.G. A minister suggests that those who live together, pension workers, get less than the sum of those who live alone. She is also making a decision to increase the relative decrease in those living alone. She says it's a doll. Truly, the pay is being raised, but it is done in a close - cut way - people being deceived, they are increasing the decrease, and the difference between couples is increasing. I would like a minister to answer my questions. There's two of them. First, why are single - parent families being more than proportional between single and married people? Second, why are the relative impairments being increased to those who live alone?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u23	A respectable president. It is simply wrong what the senator claims here. We're adding a lot to the pensioner business. [[Up front.]] We are setting up an additional 10.8 billion for the elderly on the basis of the system changes achieved. Sadly, the Corporate Community and the Government held back from allowing us to overcome similar changes in the case of disability. I still hope that at a new assembly, we can join together to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u24	Answer the questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u25	Like what? A senator also knows well and comes, for example. sociable, however, is the position of people who live simply worse than those who live with others. [[Answer the questions.]] There are very few people - we are calling for information about it - who are in the position of being with others who will not benefit from the changes we are talking about. We are also going to make significant improvements on the basis of page 69. so that everyone will be better established on the basis of the economic management levels of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u26	You didn't answer the questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to ask about an eco-friendly certification principle. I've already asked questions about that case here at the council, asked a former minister. At some point, it was decided to create something called eco-friendly production, which is not conventional and not biological. The consumer groups made serious comments on this and considered misleading. Last year, 2015, a working group was doing research on this matter and found that this arrangement was unacceptable. This eco-friendly production would not be monitored, however, based on regulations and consumers, it would have no guarantee that the production labelled eco-friendly would somehow be better than conventional production. I've asked about this here, that's probably a year ago, and now I want to know what has been done, how people have responded to the work of a team that makes this conclusion, and I think this ecstatic meaning or testimony is not good. It is noted that in countries where people have some form of witnessing, they are the producers who come together and determine how they are going to behave. Of course, if the government has such a witness, it must also ensure supervision. What I find serious about this is, in fact, we have a standard production that's supposed to be very good. Then we have organic production, which we've given far too little attention in Iceland, put far too little money into it, and this eco-friendly testimony will do nothing unless it's complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I just have to be honest about what I'm doing. A senator saying that after the few weeks or months I've been at the Department of Agriculture, I have not studied this or have not heard of it in any way. A senator here talks about. Recent domestic agreements approved at least include organic production and such factors. I can't remember which is specifically referred to as eco-friendly production there. Probably not. However, it is a good point for the senator that if we have regulations and regulations, surveillance should be in place so that those who want to produce an economist product can live up to what they want to market, i.e. that there is a clear distinction between that and another product. I will, of course, take this statement to the Ministry to see what the situation is, whether or not they have done something with the work of the requested staff, where it is, etc. But I just have to admit that I can't answer this differently here at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u29	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think this is really about removing this Regulation, that it is what this is and what was to be done, to abandon this eco-friendly testimony for now, unless the Ministry is working on another way in this matter. The situation today is that there are quite a few market products marked as eco-friendly production, such as eggs. I've been able to avoid these markings because I don't know what's behind them. It is extremely important that meaning be clear and that there is something behind it. This also helps us to understand the importance of having a consumer clinic, a public security agency, a high volume of research into these things, as we do with prices and advertising and what else. It should be clear when marking goods, that consumers know what's behind it. With the organic product, I would've liked to see a much more ambitious plan in the livestock contracts. [[The president calls.]] I hope agile minister agrees with me in that we need to do much better there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u30	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that there is obviously an opportunity for organic farming and should also be in eco-efficiency. Those who want to buy such products would then have a clear choice that it is all right, that all rules be followed. I agree with what. A senator that if we have a Regulation that is not useful and that is not being followed, it is a question of what it is for. I'll take this message with me at the Ministry and check it out there. I'm gonna promise you what. A senator that she will receive my e-mail with the information she asks for. It is important that consumers know what they are buying and what they are getting. I wanted to use this opportunity here and point out that we're completing the food marking directive so that sources are clearly presented. We are also wondering, " How can I inform you about the products in the food, so that consumers can clearly see what drugs have been used in the products they are buying? ' In addition, we're completing a regulation change that prohibits genetically modified sheep feed. It is necessary for a farmer to do so, and I hope that we are on the right track, although no doubt we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u31	President. When I started work at the General Assembly less than eight years ago, I was shocked to see how law is actually being done. Again, I have come to realize that the bills here are put in place and waited just before intermission, and on the basis of being a contingency, as per a series of conflict cases, which were suddenly taken into the council's program yesterday because of a serious problem, the law on electrons in the industrial field of Backka. Sadly, the reality would have been that a majority of the council would have forced this issue against if it had not been in the middle of a discussion on the bill that was not covered by the law. It should be noted that while members of the council have worked hard to bring the matter to the end during the day because of the uncertainty that it did not respond. So it was extremely difficult for the council to witness that in the middle of the discussion later that day, the decision fell from the Environmental and Resource Commission, which canceled the implementation of Landsnet's license for the Crimea Line 4. It was assessed by the Commission that the Scurvy Park Company had violated natural protection, organizational and administrative laws. President. Legalization at the National Assembly of Iceland is not always designed to make well - informed decisions. Thus, when a person allows himself to criticize and call for more time to cross the bills that are to be done on an assembly ground, it is compared that nowhere in the countries we compare with us is the law of so much changed. President. This is not a good thing, for it means that in human language the primes are often often terribly neglected because of political pressure by a minister should be completed before they are fully mature. It's not just me that's repeatedly pointed at this and called for a change. A report by General Assembly member of 2015 points out the lack of professional ability to legalize and the need to improve the decades - long tradition set aside for the treatment of the General Assembly. It is also important to keep in mind why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has repeatedly proposed that there be a U.S.A. law office that has the role of harmonizing the rules of the contract of law primers and other preparations for legislation. The legislators of the law office were to be members of the General Assembly and staff of the Generals and the Council to advise on preparing legislators. As a matter of fact, it is reasonable to assume that the bills were largely restricted to the Constitutions and international agreements bound by the Icelandic state and that the bills were legally correct. A law office would also make sure that primary statements were national commitments and that they were in accordance with existing laws, were accurate, clear, and understandable. I'm sorry, President, why this bill hasn't been approved, so I'd like to ask the highest level. Prime Minister whether he objects. If so, why? If the highest. The prime minister agrees with this bill from his associate, why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, why hasn't his band promoted the bill to be approved at the time they have sat in their vast majority more part at the General Assembly of the Icelanders? A recent opinion was made on the Commission and monitoring committee's report of the General Assembly by 2015. It contains the following, with the permission of a president: In the annual report of the U.S. Councilman's agent, it is discussed about the obligation of a minister to seek the opinion of the Ministry to ensure that decisions and actions are legal, as stated in Article 20. legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, No. 115/2011. The personnel shall advise in accordance with their position and roles the Minister gives the correct information and advice based on facts and professional assessments of options so that he can perform his legal and policy activities. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister Whether this was fully carried out when the government recently approved an ECG bill in the industrial region of Bakka. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Prime Minister how common it is to get legal agencies to write a opinion without the need for deeper knowledge about certain conflicts, as has been shown that a recent deficiency of electrical lines with Backka is subject to the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u32	A respectable president. The request for this special discussion generally focuses on the speed of legalization, the previous questions asked by the senator, so I will answer from it. The Ministry of Presidency has taken the lead in the Board of Directors for the past few years to improve the planning of legislatures. Excited to that work was even An example from other countries to approach this quality in a systematic manner, in which one central government agency was leading. Thus, in 2007 a manual on the preparation and disposal of the headquarters was published in cooperation with the council's office. The office of lawgivers was set up in 2009 as a reader of the Commission project before being put forward in the government and has adopted a uniform chapter division in the series of primary sites, which will help to provide a review of the impact, consultation, and agreements to the Constitution, for example. At the same time, measures have been taken to improve legal planning, e.g. by paying more attention to the products of Parliamentary and seminars, including on task management. The Ministry has participated in international cooperation in this field, both in the OECD, the European Union, and the Northern states. It is a real challenge for us Icelanders to maintain a law code that is largely comparable to what happens in much larger countries with larger administrations, while ensuring otherwise clearness and goods. The rapid change in society and the demands of international cooperation are calling for a steady review of legislation. At the same time, we have had to resolve complex issues in the wake of the economic collapse, often in political difficult situations. The reason for these issues is that it is likely that over the past few weeks, the government has brought in many major matters of Congress. The explanation is simple, many of these cases have been in preparation for years, such as social security, and once it has been decided to shorten the terms of the election, it is reasonable that ministers of the government would want to make good use of the much work that has been put into practice and to promote it to the Council, on rare occasions, with relatively short notice, as it would mean to separate legal bills from the council. I believe that most of the people who study the origin of the law in this country would agree that it would be a long time to improve. In some cases, we would like to have more time and resources to consult and evaluate the impact of a law source before they are submitted, and we would like to be more sure of the fulfillment of the requirements of the Constitution and of the international covenant. Sometimes, however, it is simply necessary to take decisive action in the belief that there will be no better work than that of time and human resources, which is a provision, and in view of the inability of governments to act when issues require release. Of course, it has been discussed that it is the right thing to do with a member of the council, but it has also been an example of more democracy, that the council has more access to the legislation than has been permitted on its own. The other is so different that we may be able to examine further whether the law and the rules are necessarily the answer to today's solutions. I can agree with what. A senator says that it is not a question of a number of laws made per Congress but of the success they enjoy. If I can get together at the end of a prime season that the Ministry considers to be a priority in this future area, it is mainly before the Court's Legal Action Programme is better handled by the Ministry to respond to the material and to present the results of this analysis to other advisers, stakeholders, public, and members of Congress. This could provide a better basis for policy development and to avoid unnecessary work. It also needs to enhance the ability of the Council to assess the effects of a law-enforcement project, not only on state funds, but also on employment, citizens, and important interests, such as gender and environmental equality. This emphasis is in harmony with the new laws on government finance. The law also needs to be monitored more closely and if it achieves its desired objectives. Here, the council and members of the Parliament could help. According to OECD, this aspect of legislation and legal action is one that is generally neglected in the Member States, including Iceland. So too much emphasis is placed on accepting new rules but less on whether the approved ones are working as planned. The presence of independent experts should also be considered for the activation of quality monitoring during the preparatory phase or routine treatment. Again and again, e.g. A debate as to whether legal products will pass a constitution, but we have no terms at stake to be resolved until the legal rights can be tested long after their approval. In many cases, therefore, people consult independent specialists in their offices in town, but they can also be said to do so. A senator, and I rejoice that this is done in such a clear way that ideas go wrong. paritaprevir The Vigdís of Hauksdóttir to promote the Generals Department of Law in order to handle these factors could also be a way we need to examine. Finally, a set of legislation's quality needs to be developed in order to provide the basis for monitoring whether evolution is in the right direction. Scar changes in the same law or judgment as the General agent's opinion of criminal abuse of the law could be, for example, Be such a standard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Jónsdóttir I think I've been thinking about a few hours. Of course, we know that careful legislation is fundamental to the work of legislation, such as the International Assembly of Iceland, and there is a need to establish a better procedure for legal procedures here. But there is also a full need to improve culture here, procedures, because there is not enough rules and laws on law. Sadly, in recent years we have experienced the desire to burn, and we have seen that today, soon before the end of the council, rapid speech is often started. On occasion, a person may suspect that it is also an intelligent method to achieve a definite conclusion quickly and under vague circumstances, so that a lack of time may result in a lack of ability to consider matters completely and can be obtained. A vivid example of this is the tunnel cable that always begins just before the end of the council, before the end of this election period, before the end of the last terms and the season of the season before. These are procedures that are not of the fine, respectable president, and they are habits that the members of all classes have tamed in but may be due to the lack of adequate understanding of the procedure. In my second entrance, I'm going to find some of the subjects of this discussion better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u34	V.E.G. President. I think there's a reason why we discuss such topics as this. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir has made this discussion. In fact, I believe that the form we have in this discussion is quite limited to discussing these matters fully. I think we can all agree that both of us need to be better prepared by the Minister's Court and a hearing here at the council. The work of the council needs to be more efficient, both in the field of recruitment and in the field of the council. Of course, when you say that, you tend to go through generalizations. I think the examples of good legislation or careful management are far more common than the others. Of course, they are the ones who are wearing their eyes; when not all have been calmed down when the bills are proposed, the council is making many changes, some may think things through, and the conclusion is that it needs to be adopted within a few losses or years. But it must be kept in mind, such as the highest. The prime minister mentioned, that in recent years more than one and more than two governments have tried to make changes in a positive direction. This was the 2007 handbook that offered very clear guidance on how to handle these matters. I watched after a collapse that the features of the manual were organizedly pushed aside, part of it because of external circumstances and part of it because people simply lost sight of the basic views available. But with the growth of professional assistance here at the council and with the support of counsellers, I think we can be more effective. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the members of Parliament, who are ultimately responsible for the legal process, are always required to find themselves in a difficult situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u35	President. I appreciate the discussion, because she's very important. At the same time, I want to address people's concerns because the frame is quite narrow to discuss it fully. I'd like to mention a few things. On the basis of General's research report, we agreed here on the financial breakdown ourselves that we wanted to make decisions based on professional knowledge, on the best possible knowledge. We also decided to increase our independence from the Commission. Both of these things have really happened. They haven't been okay. Then I would especially like to agree with what was said in the language of the day. paritaprevir The Kjerúlf Ólína daughter of the Þorvarðardóttir as to the methods we have adopted. The Minister's preparation must, in some way, have a land on the political emphasis of the greater part and the cooperation of the Declaration of the Governments. All too often, a minister may come up with a matter of Congress, and I also speak from my own experience, the bill of directors, into members of the members of the Congress, and I expect matters to go through there without the administrations being taken care of. This is all too common. We need to resist this, both in government and in opposition. The government groups there have tremendous support, that is, to divide their Ministers into giving time to discuss their political issues and to make room for reviewing whether or not the government's priorities are in order. Then there is concern, which is the highest. The prime minister is here, that we have no way of investigating governmental matters. When it comes to the U.S. Generalis that there is a possible conflict in the constitution, we have no ways. The best example is the Backlining thing. We need considerable support from the Council. We also have in advance these days examples that a government minister does not want to give a professional opinion to the council. [[The president calls.]] Well, I guess that's when the U.S. Council needs strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I have to talk to you about a matter of Congress. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has made a point. I'm glad I can agree with her. It is a good thing to contribute to the council, i.e. there's a law office where the senators can consult. As we have discussed at times, members of Congress, we receive the bills and matters, but we have little basis for setting things up ourselves, or even changing regulations, as I have discussed with you. the advocate of this discussion. We are always waiting for legal adjustments and reforms to come from the council when we, the legislators, should be able to take matters into our own hands and put forth our affairs. But that rarely happens. Something else surprised me, but the amount of work goes through the lyrics. Now I am no lawyer, and I find it hard to predict how individual legal procedures will be carried out if, for example, they were to be judged. For example, we are going to accept laws on public shopping. There's a law sheet, and even if I had three more months, I don't think I'd ever get to the bottom of whether we've done it as well as if it was better in any other way. Then you have to think that if we make a mistake, men will change the law and fix it, but we inevitably will. [[The president calls.]] In fact, you realize that, which is not necessarily very comfortable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u37	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir for bringing this matter to the attention of a very important and important matter. It's a case I've wondered about myself as a new senator, I'm coming in as a deputy, and this is the fifth time I've been coming in, and I'm sitting in committees. I notice how inaccessible it really is. You take such responsibility when you're putting these matters through, following them in the discussion, and these are laws that make a big difference in people's lives. I don't think we have enough opportunity to realize what we're paying votes about in this room, but not just that, but I can't get public judgment or in Pirata's grassroots e.g. because there is no access to the information at the committee meetings. It's also really hard. It's a big deal going through right now. I would love to share all this information and borrow the wisdom of the grass roots, and I would be helped to look into things and to see if there are some friends we might be missing. When it comes to increasing access, there's one thing I've noticed in committee meetings, it's all very small discussions. It is not enough to call in people to make hearsay after the whole matter has been negotiated. People must be allowed to access this from the very beginning. This is something I want Piratar and I to come in here, we have a total focus on changing these core parts so we can rethink and rethink how we work in this house. We don't do anything intelligent unless we make this more accessible and let more people in on this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u38	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, this discussion. This has been said in the matter of several causes. Councilmen say it is difficult for us to discuss this huge matter in a complete way. But it may be appropriate here at the end of the council and the post as it is at the council at the end of the council that I'm having for the first time, there's an increase in tension and pressure on all things. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir mentioned a huge case, electric lines on Backka. Of course, this is a legal case that involves many factors. This may be typical, how we, at the Council, deal with such a complicated situation as it is. However, it is always important to discuss a matter of quality in general. I think we should discuss it a lot more often, more dignified president. Hv. paritaprevir and the sanctimonious daughter of Birgitta, who was the Jónsdóttir of John, came into the matter of Congress. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir to promote the Generals Department. The article that I covered for this discussion is that laws are always easily understood and important to ensure that they always meet international requirements and constitution. It's a big talk. It's a big deal. The prime minister then entered what I intend to agree here at the end, a respectable president, that there is a need to promote everything that moves toward analysis, basis for policy development, and an assessment of the impact of legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u39	A respectable president. It would be good to ask ourselves, " What is involved in careful legal procedures? ' It is important that subjects receive professional material, that they get reviews, and that they have time to converse with the speakers and exchange opinions. The transition is key, I think. I think it is very important that time be given to them, for they need to be able to take place with respect to the matter and with respect to the opposite views and interests that may be relevant. An example of this is the pension fund, which follows a very broad search for negotiations in the community, into the council, which is expected to exasperate the council by prompt treatment. There is no respect for the need for time for the council to make sure that the situation is growing as it is claimed. It's just one example. When we're making laws, there's probably a certain conflict between special interest and public interest. Senators need to be especially alert to this fact, since it is usually more often the special interests that heal during rapid court treatment. Of course, there may be emergency situations in the community, emergency laws have to be set, there's some public concern, the Congress needs to meet in the middle of the night in order to solve the most important public interest issues, but usually it's the special interest that benefits from quick treatment. There is something else I would like to mention before my time, a respectable president, and it is the role of the President of the Parliament to protect the independence of the council and its right to accept acceptable legal practices. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u40	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion and accept statements here on the importance of careful preparation for the legal structure that has so far been best handled in the council. That is correct. However, I would like to express my experience in the less than two years I have been attending a council. I think I'm gonna make some changes in this stuff. For though the assembly is received to me, according to my opinion, any authority in this matter. This has not hesitated to change matters that have come from councils, and even some WCC committees have taken the initiative to legalize. I believe that would improve the view that men should look more closely toward evolution in that direction. It is also proper to bear in mind that two types of viewpoints are weighed against us. At times, laws may be performed in a few short - term terms because of urgent necessities, and a number of things can be washed up. It is more desirable for a person to get on with his life and to have time for it. A respectable president. If I could suggest a few of the best points to consider, if a person wants a legal problem, for example, it is to bear in mind that the procedure of the law will not be too high. I believe that men have gone to court too much, that men usually seek solutions to specific legal problems. I believe that it is not necessarily convenient in every case but should be looked forward to having laws in general, very clear, and so made that they do not require further legislation soon after it is set. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u41	V.E.G. President. This is an important discussion here, and it sounds to me at the very foundation, all of which agree on the importance of good legislation. I agree with the concerns that have been expressed over the effect of high speech on the legal process and the quality of it suffers. We may be able to see this as crystal as possible in the case of Bakka as well. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir went through his talk. But there is something else that I have been concerned about when it comes to the legal process, and there is a consistent effect of things coming from the government, but from different advisers and hence from different counselors, i.e. that they are read together. This occurred in my opinion very well in the discussions about changes in the insurance rights of public employees, which proposed a change in pensional age, and then in the bill on changes in social security laws, which included a second change in the life-taking period in a different group, but these groups overlap. After my questions to the highest. I could not understand better than a financial minister who would never have been considered in any form. It's very pathetic. It is also shocking when time is so limited, making major changes, such as changes in the social security law, that even members of the Committee cannot call for the Ministry's stage shots on the effect of the proposed changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, this does not work when we are talking about the survival of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u42	A respectable president. I want the second speech to point out just one thing, I don't know if I'm going out of the material, but if we talk about the work here at the Council, I feel that already a new council is going to be set up, probably before Christmas, it's important for the senators to be educated, that they'll just take courses on how things work, how to read that primes, how we're doing change proposals, how we vote in the hall. That's something we learn when we run. Some people live so well with people who know these things and know them in and out, but other categories do not have that knowledge within board. I just want to say here that it's a good idea after the election, and before a new council is given that the senators will be given a course in this study together. I've experienced many times that we're sitting in this room, and there's some confusion with a change, who came first, and if this one's suggested, let alone, and so on. It's important that we know what we're doing here. Similarly, if we're talking about bills and legislation, it's even now that regulations are placed in the Ministry, in the administration. It often has a far greater impact on people's lives than on the laws we put in, and changing regulations can be a major challenge. We know what we've been trying to do. It is not necessarily against the minister's fault but, rather, can only be a failure in the administration to change the Regulation. So it's very complicated. It's a very interesting and interesting discussion here, and I want to thank you for it. Maybe we'd have taken it sooner and more.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u43	President. Thank you for a very pleasant discussion. After almost eight years of being here, you've become a total catastrophe and are constantly wondering how we can fix our systems so that we can do our job better for the public in the country. I feel that, from this discussion, it is clear that the President of the Parliament needs to be authorized to make better use of his resources to the program and to send matters back if they arrive late. There has to be a process and authority to reimburse matters that are clearly lacking in preparation in the Ministry or that the U.S. legislation puts up a strong legal office. I think it's the idea that came from what happened. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony, that new members who come in here get proper preparations for all the complex traditions here, a fine price. It is equally important to revise the work here. We need to get much stronger with the executives, that's just the way it is. We've talked about this, there's always a new flock of members who talk about exactly the same thing. Then people go to government, and it's like all attitudes change. The only people qualified to handle this is me and the senators. I hope at a new council members would agree, whoever it may be, to make these adjustments, because it is necessary. We must never forget that every law code has an impact on people's lives. I don't know how many times I said that. We are always hearing of laws that have negative effects, which are evident when the law is new. Can we not have a button on the Generals web, where we can be pointed out in such a way that the Council does not have to wait for major changes in the budget to set free items? [[The president calls.]] I wish that we would also be able to change this field of conversation so that every senator would have five minutes to express himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u44	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion that I found interesting and that members of the council have quite a similar view of these matters. Of course, these arrangements need to be improved. I think it will be late too often that it is important to legalization and other aspects of the lives of the citizens, individuals and companies of the country that we have long-term thoughts, long-term plans, that certain policies are taken and as much consultation as possible in the working process and during the time period. But I've only wondered at the discussion that the Council is in some way less equipped, but we're certainly few, like the government. To that end, it is true. But here it is to form more independence from the council than in many other members of the council. We'll change the law more. Not just because they are not well made but because they are more independent. We have seen, especially during this election period, more members of Congress will pass through the council, which I think is positive, so I merely wondered at the debate here. Then, of course, there are situations in which prompt action is needed. This will test whether this work is good in court. The penalty is a good example. They stood. They were placed in a very narrow community. They had to work out. Sometimes there are less emergency situations, such as back-up on Backka these days. Then you need to take action. That is what the Senate needs to be able to do. The Congress has been standing here together, both executives and legislators, for years to build projects on Backka at Húsavík, negotiate with companies, and set up government agencies. But then the council's just gonna say, " Pass," we're not gonna do anything, we're gonna make this disappear. Then, whoever says to go up here and say, "We don't have a filancy to delay the matter, we're not here to stop these matters from happening. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's try it instead. Let's get the show on the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u45	What about the decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u46	We have a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u47	As the program shows, there are a number of cases here to vote. The president hopes that we can finally vote for the 10th part of the program, but he still wants to say that the vote for the 3rd topic, the currency, later in this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u48	A respectable president. It is a joy to see that it seems, at least in view of the opinion of the committee, that there is a good solidarity on this subject. In this regard, we are taking steps to make it easier for public institutions to shop together with other institutions in other countries. We are also making it easier for those who do business with the government to seek their rights; they don't have to do it directly but can do it through a community organization. But the big thing is that we're going on here on a course that has been set up in this terms to obtain more economic purchases for public citizens and thus save the tax money of the public. Similarly, we contribute to healthy business practices and competition in the country. So it is with great satisfaction that I say yes to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u49	Mr. President. It's about a lot of fine stuff, and I'll be at the committee's opinion in advance that I'd like to explain. He turns first to the rural communities, where I have promoted that they should enjoy being within their own rules and not falling under the rules set here. There are two factors in this, one of the weight-fixed areas, and then it's the D.A., but I've been worried about it, as if your rural society could increase a lot, and this will be a significant increase in the cost of rural development and development. Since working hours are often very short for my rural society, I don't feel that they're under there. For this reason, we will sit by the left of the green.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u50	A respectable president. It is a joy to know that we are taking this step. We're here to help young people get their first apartment. We are promoting the ability of people to have their own home, which is extremely important. We know that the building system as it has been so far has further encouraged people to owe, to promote high - quality loans. But here we are going another way. It's a pleasure. It is extremely important that we encourage all Icelanders, especially young people, to be financially independent. It's a bill that points to that. I'm glad we're on the run with this good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u51	A respectable president. In the short future, we have had a positive view of a choice of freedom of choice in terms of what people do with their additional pension savings, that it may be wise for people to choose to move it between savings, to place it in their living quarters, as expected in this bill. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. On the other hand, this bill has its primary goal, and it does not help in our opinion the most needed help to buy their first apartment. This is of primary benefit to young people who can be reasoned that no special help may be needed to make a home for themselves. With the others, it's useless. Therefore, we cannot pay our vote and sit by in this matter and be on the yellow button. We don't think it's a bill that covers its stated goal. It's useless.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u52	Mr. President. This bill, from the Common Union to Business Council, was found in a wide variety of criticisms on the committee. All of these agreed that the bill did not serve a declared purpose, supporting young people for housing. I don't think that the bill, apart from its large fault, is that there is a difference between people by earnings in that most people, most of whom earn most of them, have a right to most dollars on tax rate, and those who earn the lowest income have fewer dollars. It is a clean discrimination indicated here in the public support of young people's homes. It's not the kind of system that we in the left movement would like to see built up. We would have considered it so normal to take other routes of housing and to build on the agreement that the support should go beyond the wealthier groups. That's why we're going against this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u53	A respectable president. It is certainly a challenge for young people to get up a roof over their heads for the first time. That's always been the case, a respectable president. Probably more of a problem than he's been so far. This is especially so in view of the fact that the income of young people is now relatively lower than it used to be. There is now one thing to look at. This is an attempt to help young people to cover their heads for the first time. This is a failed attempt. That's why we can't vote with her. She's a failure because it doesn't work soon and last because it's for rich kids, but not for the worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u54	President. There's so much trouble with these laws that they can't be approved. Criticism, which has been observed, is very high. Among other things, business advice points out that the bill does not attack the problem that is inexorable for younger generations. They think it better to put in an action plan on these subjects rather than to add another support system in housing, as mentioned in the Commission's review. I think it's amazing that we're accepting so many layers that are buttocks on a whole damaged system that needs a complete reexamination. This will be useful to the young rich people. Let's help the young rich people buy houses.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u55	A respectable president. This case is as contrary as it can be from this government and crowns in itself to its work during this terms, where it has undermined the growth reform system, which is the best way to get housing support to those who really need it because of income and small possessions. Here, a new government system is designed to transfer money to the most efficient. People with 1,400 you. K. in a month's pay, which has no problem buying an apartment, gets a government scholarship to offer even higher to the apartments it is already buying. It is also very dangerous to follow this way in which the government is going to destroy the extra pension system in this way. In the final fall, the nation benefited greatly, and the whole generations benefited greatly from having access to additional pensions that were abandoned. There, people had the savings they had, and they could use them to solve immediate problems. Here the government is deciding that in the future economic turmoil the generation now to have its first apartment will have no reserve, no security. [[The president calls.]] That's a very serious decision. In the light of experience, she is unwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u56	A respectable president. I'm glad we're finishing this big, important thing. Here we are making sure that a person can get up to 5 billion. K. to buy a home, or to buy up to 10 million. K. This is part of an agreement made with the labour market partners where we set up a future housing policy. A key factor for people to buy housing is to make sure that they have room to save - we made it with the initials that we agreed to and fixed for us - by improving their status in the tenet, and then we can say that this is the final part of the game when we're creating an environment where people will be able to save up for housing with the support of their employer and the government. What a blessing that will be when we look to the future!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u57	A respectable president. I'm glad that I seem to be more involved in the fact that these adjustments are going to work out. Its purpose is that men and women, teenagers, young and old people, can choose the kind of loan they would like, but that people are not forced to take the most expensive loans available today. I believe this is a serious legal step. Thank you for your support for this adjustment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u58	A respectable president. I ask that we make a special vote for a team of 09-381 on page. 13th I suggest we take him down, which is the worst suggestion I've ever made in this council. This is because, unfortunately, the agreement that has been established, which has been waiting for decades to level the pension rights between the public employees and the general labour market, has not already been maintained. I'd like to call to the attention of members of Congress and national groups that we have only this opening this year to do what everyone said has agreed on over the past few decades that we should do. I'm sorry. Something's come up. I'm not going to point one or no one out, but I'd like to draw attention to the seriousness of the situation. I hope we can finish this by New Year's, but I'm afraid I suggest, with grief in my heart, that we make this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u59	Mr. President. The smaller section has made comments to the bill for financial support and suggests the adjustment of the material. We have criticized that there are new tasks that do not belong to financial contributions and that do not really exist in what they are. It's even here. examples of a new institution coming or something we don't know, whether or not there needs to be a budget for the coming year or whatever it is to be saved inside a travel station. We submit a new proposal for improvements under social assistance and pension insurance laws, i.e. With regard to 69 st. Social security legislation, which should protect the groups of men who have had a down payment and who are paid a pension like the minimum wage in the country, and which will be back again on May 1 as agreed by a collective agreement. We remind us of examples of contracts in 2011.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u60	A respectable president. As in the past, there are often parts that do not belong. We're going to sit next to you on this matter. In itself, we are not against the financial resources there, no doubt most of us are running for good projects. But it should have been taken into account in too many cases. But I hope we have a new law on government finance that we start to break up these budgets, and we planning in the future, we won't see these funds inside. So, we're sitting next to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u61	A respectable president. It was supposed to be about the vote, but it doesn't matter. In the budget for the current year, a smaller proportion of budgetary committees suggested that the elderly and the desperate be restored from May 1, 2016, as shown by collective labour agreements. An example is found in the 2011 collective agreements. Here is an adjustment proposal for the budget so that this is exactly what happens, that the elderly and the poor get their terms improved from May 1 on May as suggested in the budget already.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u62	A respectable president. As we have discussed some recent days, there is now a community welfare committee bill for significant changes in the social security system. This is where specific changes are being made to the old system. We are adding 10.8 billion to our system, and that action is especially about the elderly. We are also ensuring that those who have been mentioned in the Social Security System follow the minimum labour market pay and will be brought in several months earlier, before the minimum labour wage has reached 300 you. K. I've stressed it out. We're looking for progressive increases. We are going to continue to improve the ideal pensioners just as we have done all this terms. So I say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u63	A respectable president. It's kind of bad taste in my mouth that I make that suggestion. That we should have been so close to achieving this goal, but that the deal men thought had ended up smiling, that's so sad. But we've got a time frame until New Year's. I'm confident that the council that meets now after election will come together and finish this whole thing. I don't think I'll be in this room then, so I trust that the rest of you who are going to be here will finish this whole thing, this mission, with those who have agreed on it, would be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u64	After the first man to account for his votes, the president wants to decide in a somewhat regular way that his wishes cannot be received, but the other one. 4th, including We're out of Suðvest. had reached it in a fraction of a second.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u65	A respectable president. I think this is a unique table of votes in the history of the Generals. I think we should understand the seriousness of our decision now that we make it. It is fundamental that we can guarantee one and the same pension system for the entire population. That's an enormous interest issue. We're getting very close now. The official organisation has approved such changes. It is fundamental that a new government succeeds in the weeks ahead after it is formed, until the end of the year, to sail into ports and to ensure that the equations of pension rights on public markets and public markets. We have amazingly much to blame for it as a nation. We can't keep growing spaces in between. This is fundamental to the success of a new assembly in this regard. I hope that picture of this table of vote follows a new election council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u66	Thank you for coming up here. My speech turns to the previous vote. I made the decision to sit by the vote, for I think it's a big disappointment that we can't get together at the council to accept and handle changes that turn to an equation of pension rights which is essential for the agreement we've reached at the labour market, the basis for a new Norwegian market model. I should have thought we could have agreed on this crucial change. It will be one of the key works of a new government after the election to complete this. I want to say here: I will do my part to make sure it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u67	I'm going to go to the highest command. Minister and follow-up on votes earlier. The vote the minister spoke about has only exactly nothing to do with the council. It was clear that in the short future, we wanted to get on this case, that the pension rights would come first. It was that government that decided not to have this one of the issues we were about to end in these last days. It has nothing to do with the council that people fell off the train with them. [[Flmrh.: Then let's take care of it.]] Yeah, let's do it. [[Up front.]] You're the ones who say so. [[Up front.]] It's a funny game to be here all of a sudden - let's get this thing red and then it's going to be the best. Minister to yellow. What the hell is this shit?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u68	A respectable president. Yesterday, a vote for 2nd. in this matter. I'm going to admit here, and now I didn't make a comment on what I'm thinking. It's all over. 1685 and I signed this without notice, but when I start reading it in detail, I see that there's a chapter I'm going to apologize for not making a warning. That's the chapter on a special bond. True, his ordinances have gone back with the committee party, but when I stand before God and have to account for my actions, I'd rather have apologized for putting my name on this, this is a stupid chapter. It's totally out of touch with the subject of the bill, and it has nothing to do with this case. I'm sorry and I'm sorry I had anything to do with that section. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u69	A respectable president. It's about the investment rights of pension funds, and I'm sure it will. A financial and business committee has done her work well. I know she's done it, and I just wanted to draw attention to one thing in relation to this, which I'm not going to suggest now but would like to draw attention to. I think it's time for us to set floors when it comes to the investments of pensions in foreign lands, i.e. encourage or oblige them to invest more there for obvious reasons. All Icelanders have everything they need in this country, and it's wise to have saved in more places. And also, when we are concerned about overindulging the crown, there is a very special reason why our pensions especially invest in foreign lands. That is one of the many benefits we received when we suffered a severe shock in the fall of 2008. We should make a special consideration of it, or the next assembly, to set floors on these investment warrants.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u70	A respectable president. I'm glad that there's a good agreement on this matter at the council. We have finally lost a new reimbursement rule on the film industry and now we're adding temporary reimbursement for recording music. This is considered by those working in this sector to be of great importance, and it is a means of strengthening and strengthening growth in this area of the country. I'd like to mention that in this context, the situation became settled. A professional commission yesterday that members of the Superintendent Party, Independence Party, Left Green, the Controversy, and the Bright Future would present a parapolitical case facing a free group of members of the country, i.e. that they can when they are about to build a facility for their activities consult the Ministry of finance for a contract and receive a reimbursement tax as they are responsible for a reimbursement tax. In view of how successful it has been to achieve a solidarity on such a matter and to go through such involuntary matters, I think we should join in the council and look to the matter and resolve it the same way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u71	A respectable president. I come up here to celebrate the fact that this case is becoming a law. Thank you. Senator and wοuldn't. Work committees are a great source of good and powerful work on this matter. We see, especially in these days, how well we have made progress in the film industry when big projects are being done here, I don't want to say all over the country, but in many countries, with economic positive effects and positive effects on filmmaking. The bill we're enforcing today is new, and I have high expectations that we will see similar results in the musical field. I'm delighted and thank you very much for the good work the council has done in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u72	V.E.G. President. I agree with others who have spoken, and I rejoice that this matter has come up and that the agreement to strengthen the recording of music is similar to that of film making. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson came up with a business committee that deals with free partnerships, and I agree with him wholeheartedly. For that reason, I refer to a case I've put forward and I'm on a financial and business committee, which turns to sports, young and young people's society. I'm here for the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u73	A respectable president. Why are these laws called temporary reimbursements for recording music? I don't think there's any intention that the law will be a short time, any more than a law on temporary reimbursement that has been in effect for decades. Already, the waiting room has been declared to be waiting for further specific action in terms of tax appeal. I'm pointing at something like that. Artists, they just take their seats behind the company group that has arrived on the waiting list. Once again, the Council agrees with specific actions for the instigation of certain classes, contrary to the solemn talks that are generally agreed here to maintain the importance of careful legislation, that laws are clear, simple, transparent, and general, yet again and again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u74	A respectable president. We in Pirates will pay this bill of our votes where a-Japans 1st par. The bill was removed, and because these laws are actually being canceled. As a result, direct contributions to musicians and artists are made from the state fund, which we consider to be good. We can put our name on this bill, where the a- team was removed from the area 1st. The bill, which deals with the origin of a digital copy, each can be distributed. It was not fully clear for what purpose it was put in, and it was actually not in harmony with the primary objective of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u75	A respectable president. This is an important legal arrangement for the owners of the author's authority. I believe the solution to this matter is fine, i.e. that it is fixed in the laws as suggested here for the price of the currency, i.e. the toll groups of devices that have fallen to make copies for personal use, as well as to legalize the percentage or pressure of the party to be laid on, and then to make a decision to pay the fee from the state fund. This puts a strong foundation for payment. It is a clear foundation that is perplexing and effective. The important thing is to realize that this approach and payment are based on national and legal commitments made by the Icelanders and the Constitutions of their rights. Thus, this is not a traditional contribution to culture. Rather, it is a privilege, which is being paid for and therefore a great compensation to those whom they will receive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u76	Mr. President. It's important what happened at the highest. Minister, this is not cultural contributions. We in the left green will support this solution, although this is certainly a change in policy that taxpayers will be paying these payments to the owners of the author's policy rather than those who consume it. In view of the technological development that has taken place in recent years, we all know that there is a complex situation in this regard. This is a change of direction, but we think that there is enough of it left in this bill so that we support this solution, and it is very important that there is a solution in this matter that I think authors have gone very far behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u77	A respectable president. Like so many times before. Piranha says something about permafrost and author-proof material, I have to admit that I'm not going to be able to control the relocation, I'm sorry. I don't quite understand the premise. I want to explain my reasons why I vote on this matter. It is endeavoring to meet authors because it is a copy of their material. I'm glad we do. I'm a little scared of this way, I have to say, because I'm afraid that in the end of time and when it suits the council, this point will just be reduced and it's not good enough for writers. I would have considered it better to have a fee on a machine we use, an ipada, computers, that would be put on these products and we would have paid for it as consumers, and then, hopefully, we would have solved these cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u78	A respectable president. I make a sound again so that I repeat certain points that I think matter. First, to add the price to it means that there are a number of people who do not use these devices, so that it is a copy type on a fossilized product. This would be a payment for those who buy phones or other electronic devices and would not use them in the way that is involved. That in itself is also injustice. By doing this in the way that we do, we are certainly taking the money from a state fund, but it is done, and then I come to what was mentioned before, in a grammatical, transparent way, and it is tied to the law of which toll parties are and what pressures are involved so that they need to make a change in order to change the price. Therefore, it is not just an intentional decision made by a minister in making a budget or something that controls the proposal. Rather, the council needs to take a position on some change. That's what I think is new and good new, exemplary, where we save the cash, and then we pay from the treasure of the state. I believe it is a fair and correct way to ensure the right rights of the groups involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u79	A respectable president. Maybe it's time to explain a little bit about Pirata's policy in this matter. The case is about the legal copy, which means that if people own, e.g. A tape and a CD can be recorded on the tape if you have bought the CD with any material. It's controversial, like the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture entered, where, for example, artists, such as photographers, etc., pay their own high-profile software as a result of their lack of memory. That's not fair. The only way that's going is because this is really an update and improvement of the arrangement that's been taken, a compromise that these taped fees are for legal copying, we Pirates can short the case. This is in harmony with the developments in technology, which allows us to support it and also because it has legally copied and nothing to do with illegal copying.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u80	A respectable president. It's so interesting that I couldn't sit in it and get involved. What I find so remarkable about this bill is that it gives me evidence of how much longer the legislature power is after the development of technology. The world is changing so fast right in front of our noses, and most of them are actually no longer making digital copies or copies of laws at all. Most people don't use cassatos and CDs anymore, but now the law is flowing, I don't mean music, but it's not the law from the Council, though it's nice to flood them too. Of course, the subject that lies ahead for musicians and other artists is trying to make sure that in the present world, people can simply listen to the laws as they are on the radio in their computers and in the past and in the real world, artists get the reward for their good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u81	President. As mentioned earlier, a part of this bill was removed. What I find so important about this type of legislation is that it harmonizes with the reality and culture we live in. What you always worry most about when it comes to authorship is that the authors themselves, the artists who create, usually get the least. It is those who are the so - called barristers, who are usually big companies, who get the most part of the cake. I really hope that this adjustment will lead to the artists'getting their money, not their rightful companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u82	A respectable president. I want to celebrate this vote. This is correcting that the property of the authors of Iceland has been avoided. For years, authors have been making great money because of changes in technology that the legislation has not followed. This is a way to make up for it in some way. I'd like to reiterate in the light of a vote. A senator before that the National Institute of Authorship is owned by authors more and less and a author's union, and the body of retails is an enterprise of authors in Iceland, not a business of profit in the city.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u83	A respectable president. This bill has adopted the first major decommissionment step taken in 2008. What a cause for joy that is! It's evidence that we're doing better. Economically, we are seeking the strength to take this step, and hopefully as many as possible speed along, thus releasing Iceland from the oceans on the basis of a good economic state and on the basis of the Icelandic crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u84	A respectable president. I'll say the highest words. Secretary of finance. I am happy that in this council hall, we will prosper to agree that we are breaking down individuals and businesses in the country and taking an important step. That is one of the reasons why we meet here on August 15 and are about to complete our Senate work now in October. It is with great joy that I say yes in this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u85	V.E.G. President. I recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee in a case where changes to various laws due to a new level of cross-cutting. In spring, we discussed the matter at the council, and it was agreed to set up an intermediate level here in the country. This requires a variety of adjustments. We discussed this matter and made the minor changes that are legal. We discussed a significant period of treatment in matters related to permanent rejection that could be too long if they were appealed to the Supreme Court, and so we focus on the State Department's opinion to make this comment in a closer examination by the Children's Institute before the law takes effect. There should be a time for this, but in other respects we hope that the bill will be approved by the changes proposed by the majority of the committee. Under this heading, the one listed here, the Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Lára Arnardóttir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Birgir Ármannsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u86	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize a home loan to consumers. I would like to recommend a full share of the Economic and Business Committee on that bill. The committee received 21 talks on the matter, and she was contacted by a representative of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Association of Economic Affairs, the National Bank of Pensions, Iceland's Bank, the National Association of Pension, the National Association of Pension, the SEC, the SEC, Iceland's Federal Association, the Neytland Institute, the Neytés, Neko Summits, and Commissity Association. The bill is about saving mortgages to consumers for jobs. Today is the law on consumer loans, No. 33/2013, of all cost to consumers for employment, including mortgages. If the bill is legal, then the law will include general requirements for ability and knowledge and the remuneration of employees will be set up and more emphasis on explanations that will consume the right to the loan. Remuneration of mortgage agreements is not permitted because the requirement for consumers to negotiate the purchase of other separate financial services from the lender. It is suggested that the F.A. will be granted permission to establish a maximum share of mortgages to consumers on the basis of financial status guidelines. It is also suggested that the maximum amount of payment be changed in order to promote the growth of loans on fixed interest rates. A respectable president. The majority of the section's view is found on the roof. 1761, but the changes in the share are on the roof. 1762. I will now tore up key changes, which are suggested by more of the Committee than in other respects to the above panels. The majority of them consider it desirable to obtain loans for maintenance of property houses, to buy or change housing because of special needs for disability or illness, and to repay mortgages without regard to the limitations of the VII. section on line ratios. So the majority suggest that such loans be excluded from VII's guidelines. section. The majority suggest that the terms for hosthood and home state are defined in Article 4. they will be removed, as they are nowhere else in the bill text. The majority suggest an addition of the law to the definition of payment of problems which is consistent with the current definition in the Regulation on the credit and payment evaluation of No. 920/2013. The Commission also suggests that because loan costs over loan lenders have often been shown to prevent competition at a loan market, they make it difficult for borrowers to move between creditors. In comparison with the laws on the cost of mortgages in the North countries, which the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs stated that borrowing, which is the share of loans, is not recognized in Denmark and Norway, is prohibited in Sweden and much lower than in Finland. The majority therefore consider it time to limit such expenditures to the country and therefore suggest that it be prohibited from requiring an consumer to require other expenditures on the construction of a home loan agreement than those due to the direct cost of a lender of the contract. It was noted that it was necessary to define what fell into the sharing of loans based on Article 1. Count 9. To eliminate all differences, the majority contributes to a slight change in the 9th and 4th paragraphs. The majority suggest that there should be a provisional delay to adapt to the requirements for knowledge and ability of employees according to Article 9. ... buta secretary will be authorized to do so, as the bill expects. 12th degree. it suggests that explanations on the importance of insurance loans or foreign currency connections are to be given. It was noted that it was appropriate also to provide explanations on the significance of changing interest on uncertain loans. The majority also feel that it is desirable for consumers to study under the circumstances and in what way growth will change before they receive an offer. So the majority suggest a slight change of 12. The majority suggest information based on 1 mg. 14th par. it should be provided on paper or other permanent mediums according to the other aspects of the bill that discuss the information of the lender. In paragraph 1 of paragraph 19. it says that an additional annual rate of costs should be based on peak interest if a mortgage contract involves a variable growth rate. If a contract does not say maximum interest, the share will depend on the highest annual interest rate of the loan from the lender during the past 15 years. The majority suggest a 20-year share instead of 15 years in line with the mortgage directive. A greater proportion also suggests that a minister will be committed to implementing regulations on the calculation in the absence of 20 years of interest history. In this case the reference is in the instructions for the fourth part of a table in Annex II for the mortgage directive. A few comments showed that it was not clear whether a creditor is allowed according to Article 20. to support credit or payment ratings from third party. The majority of these points out that there is no material change from valid rights. Third party's credit ratings and credit ratings will continue to be permitted, but the responsibility for such loans will still be a lender. The committee also discussed the payment of mortgages related to foreign currency. You may be tempted by consumers to take loans related to low interest coins. Such loans, though, come with a constant problem of living that is difficult to assess. Experience shows that fluctuations in the workings of currency can be both unexpected and large and cause widespread consumers with loans related to foreign currency and lenders much damage. There is no evidence that such loans are necessary to be given to the unsuspecting consumers, and the European Economic Convention does not require that this be carried out. So a greater part thinks that it is proper to take a careful step to the earth in this matter. The majority of these points point to the lack of financial loans to prevent loans related to foreign currency spending up economic swings and the threat of financial stability, as in fact, in terms of the greater part of the Commission on bill to correct the change in growth and security laws, in the case of No. 384. Thus, the majority suggest that only loans associated with foreign currency to consumers who are protected from currency risk out of credit. A greater part also suggests that instead of the words ◯ to cause the consumers to harm, to 10 mg is the case. Twenty-two. If there is a consumer that is not good, let it be in harmony with the words of the 1st proverb 4. 18th par. Real estate loans. The majority suggest a ratio of 4 to 1 mg. 23rd par. increase to 20% in order to cover credit rates, such as a consumer might raise regular loans to cut down the loan time. The majority suggest the rest of the 5th Figures of 1.mg. 23rd par. That includes a partner who sits on an exclusive farm, as well as an heir. The majority suggest 5 mg. 24th par. the results of the lack of information in consumers are clearly identified. Four. 20. The mortgage directive suggests that a consumer should be informed that borrowing is not possible unless he receives information for credit and payment. The majority suggest an opinion rather than an offer of financial stability at 1 mg. 25. ... inconsistencieswiththe SEC's proposal. As a result, the Commission's decision on the maximum price rate will be based, not on financial status guidelines, but only on the opinion of the Council. The review of the FEC pointed out the importance of different surveillance tools available to reduce real estate vaccines and accumulation of risks based on the individual situation. Different controls affect different groups, and in different ways and limits on bond ratios are not always the most effective way to work against loan swings. The F.O. suggested that, in addition to consumer incomes, they also allow themselves to be allowed for financial stability, to limit mortgages, or their payments. The majority agree that it is desirable to increase financial management by this means in order to improve the use of an appropriate device at a time. So the majority suggest that such a warrant be added to VII. section of the bill. The majority suggest a change of 27. The bill for righting the access depends on the rules of personal protection, such as the laws on personal protection and the handling of personal information. The majority suggest that consumers will always be permitted to change the postmortems of a mortgage associated with foreign currency in Icelandic dollars. This, in part, results from borrowing to the borrower. Thus, creditors will need to take more into account the success risk in their loans and will calculate the risk of growth of such loans. More fully, then, consumers can come to realize the real risks and costs of loans. The majority also feel that if an consumer no longer meets the criteria of a 21. ..... no longer have privatities that were essential to the loan process and thus are no longer protected from harm. Conversion to crowns is considered necessary to prevent individual consumers from being exposed to harm, e.g. Because of changing circumstances, and also to prevent time to accumulate a number of undefeated borrowers with a position that could affect financial status. Thus, the majority suggest that creditors be obliged to regularly examine consumer defenses against high rates of loan time, at least twice a year. Continued monitoring is necessary to reduce the risk of consumers, but at the same time to provide the SEC the correct picture of the loan risk to the lenders at a time. It has also been suggested that without ongoing supervision, borrowers could obtain short - term answers only to meet pay prices, but these would not be available if the threat of failure occurred. Many commentators expressed concern that the maximum balance of payment according to Article 3. 36 st. I'd be too loud. It was noted that it might be an improvement to provide a fixed peak in the proportion of payments. In this context, the reasons for consumer protection weigh heavily and consider the greater part right to take care of the above concerns. Adds more of the item, so that payment may be made only a little more than 4% of the reimbursement. It is true to mention that in the current law the maximum payment rate is 1%, but in this bill it suggests that a maximum payment rate of 0.2% per year for the rest of the fixed interest period, so if a loan has fixed interest until five years, there could be 1% payment from that loan. We see that 4% of the world's peak would be in the interest of a steady interest loan to 20 years. Such loans are rare. In other words, the committee agrees to set a peak that would be 4%. One comment was received by the committee, in which a comment was made at 38 C.E. The bill. It was noted that on what basis a creditor was obliged to offer an agreement to reimburse the postmortem. The client suggested that the lender may demand sufficient information on the financial situation of borrowing, that there was no danger of property ahead, and that a means of payment would warrant reimbursement within a reasonable period of time, and might be considered to property positions, and that insurance would be available. The majority agree with these views and suggest such a change of 38 g. 42nd and 46th. The bill is used in the term "unspotted reputations. " The majority suggest that there will be a further discussion of a ◯ good reputation to be in line with the term use in financial companies law, No. 161/2002. It was noted that the members listed in number 2 are number 45. gr. do not lend credit services or loan advisers, as these terms are defined in the bill. So the majority suggest that the number fall away, which included the number. changers. In Figure 3 1. 46. g. will be discussed in the appropriate conditions of the Management Board, who operates as a lawgiver. The majority suggest that the appropriate conditions also apply to the head of the lenders in accordance with the appropriate conditions for creditors in Article 2 of 1.mg. 42rd. In accordance with the report, the majority contributes to the removal of the 19th quarter 1 mg. 52. g. The bill that allows the Nettorium to commit administrative fines to the lender or lender. In similar cases, it is permitted to place government fines on borrowers, and the greater part considers the same authority to be unfortunate for two institutions. In terms of the validation of the law, the greater part is suggested that their implementation be postponed from September 1, 2016 to April 1, 2017, to give creditors and the management system a chance to prepare themselves. The committee also discusses changes in other laws resulting from this. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted by means of a process made up for thawing. 1762. Hermies, Níelsson's son, were absent from the case. Birgitta Jónsdóttir was found as an audition officer, supporting this opinion in advance. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and executive, Anna Guðjónsdóttir, daughter of God, in advance, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in advance, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir, and Willum Þór Þórsson. A respectable president. I now recommend an extended committee study and a transition from the Economic and Business Committee on bill to legalize home loans to consumers. Consider, along with a change in the motion, and see how you feel about it. 1763. A major part of the Commission's proposal suggested that consumers always be allowed to change the posts of a mortgage associated with a foreign currency in the United States. The majority also suggested that the lender regularly check insurance and the consumer's defense against the luck risk at the loan class should be converted to Icelandic dollars if the consumer no longer met the conditions of Article 21. The Commission described the rights of consumers as sufficiently guaranteed by allowing them to always change their posts in Icelandic dollars. That right also inspired creditors to use caution in such loans and contributes to financial stability. With reference to these views, the Commission suggests that neither the borrower will regularly check insurance nor the consumer's defenses against the risk of success, nor that the post office loans associated with foreign currency should be changed to Icelandic dollars if the consumer no longer meets the conditions of Article 21. So the committee suggests that the bill will be approved with the adjustment made in the Senate document. Brynjar the son of Níelsson and Sigríður Á. Andersen were absent at the hearing. Anna Guðjónsdóttir Gudjonsdótttir and Guðmundur Steingrímsson were away at the hearing, but publications are thought to be recorded at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Birgitta Jónsdóttir served as an audition officer and supports. Under the opinion of this publication, the following column. Councilmen: Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and executive, Anna Margrét Guðjónsdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, daughter of Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, in advance, the daughter of Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Óli Björn Kárason, and Willum Þór, son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u87	V.E.G. President. I recommend the bill of the greater part of the General and Education Committee. This is one of the provisions to be added to current alien laws that will apply to January 1, 2017, when new alien laws are applied in Iceland. The report is requested in certain cases where international protection is applied once not to be correct, i.e. that once the U.S. National Institute has decided that the individual should leave the country every time that the charges against foreigners are not charged with the right effect of that decision. This is the case when the applicant comes from a state that is listed in a secure source list, dr. 3 mg Fifty. d in current law, and the Foreign Institute of Iceland clearly assesses the rest of the review. Here is a provision that we discussed earlier this year. This was part of the so - called stub in foreign affairs that we discussed at the council in March last month, which did not come together to finish them, and the committee decided to take a closer look. Now we are at the point where a greater proportion of the Committee brings back this bill, or this point, hoping to get it done at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u88	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the Greenland Fund. These are changes in current financial laws. In view of current laws, the sea is thus composed, making the rules for it and the legislation on it that have not been provided to strengthen the fund since 2011. The fund now has some 70 billion. K. but the 1980 Greenland Fund states that only 9/ 10 parts of the budget can be provided in strength. The growing income has been small and sometimes negative, so the funds have not been distributed. Here is a bill that should be paid for the use of the funds. This means that unless the funds are increased, the fund will continue to be sufficient for 30 to40 years before they are raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u89	Madam President. I'm just going to come up to celebrate this change. It is a long time now, and hopefully it will benefit those who collect the funds. At the same time, since 2011 the fund has not been dispensed, and there is plenty of money. Conditions have changed in Icelandic economy, which has made it impossible for them to be divided. It is designed to promote increased communication between Greenland and Icelanders and has a sharp flow. The director of the case was in charge there. Strength are given to tours, learning selections, art shows, sports events, and other topics of culture, education, and science, and is worthy of both sides of the study, i.e. It is advertised in Iceland and Greenland and can be applied in both countries. I'm not gonna have this any further. I think it's important that we make it. This made it clear that despite this change, the fund will last for decades, of course. I have not formed an opinion of 2 st. where the management of the fund should be reduced. I was not present when the matter was presented, and I do not know exactly what the evidence was, so I do not make a direct decision about it. This, however, is the best, and hopefully it will take place here in the final meters of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u90	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Economic and Business Committee for the 2nd Environment. about the bill to legalize government anti-tax fraud measures, etc. You can find the nominee on the roof. 1774, but the bill is listed as No. Seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven. 1346. There were quite a few adjustments, and the suggestions are found in a special Senate document, No. 1775. The committee has covered matters extensively, and it has met several references to this view. They're from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Economic Affairs, KPMG ehf., Peritoneal Protection, State Tax Control, Business Association, Financial Corporation, Data Association, National Association of Industrial Affairs and Iceland's Business Council. The reviews of the bill were received from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Union of State and Towns, the National Intelligence Agency, the National Law Association of Iceland, Peritoneal Protection, and the Association of financial companies. In the August, issue of Awake! The Ministry of Economics offered suggestions for significant changes in the bill. The Committee requested reviews of these proposals and received reviews from the FEC, KPMG ehf., Federal Protection, State tax managers, Reitum hf., the Association of Industrial Affairs, the Association of Technologies and Iceland's Business Council. In addition, the committee received memos from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Industrial Association, customs managers, Verne Global and Iceland Business Council. The Commission's proposal is largely based on the changes made by the Ministry and their detailed explanations. The committee also reviewed their May issue of this report. on tax cover and possible legal adjustments to keep them working, and that case is no. 782. I now come to the main changes, and first there is a definition of a fixed work station in a new article. In the 3rd. a law on income taxes shows who has limited tax obligations in Iceland, i.e. I am obliged to pay taxes on revenues from their local origin. These include those who run a fixed work station here, participate in a fixed operating facility, or enjoy part of a workforce of such activities, as shown by the preceding Act 4 of 1. The article. The concept of a fixed work station to be used is not defined in the income tax laws but defined by the definition of the term "stemblishment' in Article 5. two-fold agreement agreements for the Economic and Development Organization, OECD. The Commission suggests that a definition of the term based on the protocol will be established. Therefore, when interpreting the arrangement, it is proper to take into account the arrangement arrangement arrangement. The core of the definition is 1 mg. New Article 3. a according to the review of the Commission's proposal. It has three conditions. First, a physical station, such as housing or equipment, is required. Second, the workplace needs to be stuck, i.e. confined to a certain site in a reasonably permanent way. Third, it needs to be new to the job. An example of a situation commonly considered as a fixed staff is the Commission's residence, branch, office, factory, workshop, mining, oil or gas source, stone mine, or other location of natural resources. Two. This article is a special rule that a construction site or construction or construction project must last longer than six months to be considered a permanent work station. The time period is from the start of a job, although a breach occurs or it is divided into a smaller step. In the OECD deal model for 12 months, the Committee suggests that according to six months it will be possible to provide the INJECTION agreements on the basis of 1 mg. Ninety-one. a law on income taxes. The first act of Article 3. is made up of the exception of 1 mg. that an activity consisting only of preparation or support to other activities of an enterprise would not be permanent. An example of activity which is generally considered only for conditioning or supporting in this sense is the utilisation of a single storage, storage, presentation or delivery of goods owned by an enterprise, the supply of goods owned by a company solely for storage, display or delivery, supplying of goods owned by an enterprise designed solely to be employed in another enterprise and a fixed employment center which is used exclusively in connection with the purchase or collection of information for an enterprise. Second measure 3 mg. does not directly correspond to the OECD protocol, but it is intended to state that the management of a foreign company on servers and related computer equipment in Iceland, including renting such equipment, due to a function that is considered for pre-exploitation or support, would not alone take place in its fixed national labour center. It already leads to the first act of 3. However, the Commission noted that it was important for a competitive position in Iceland that it was clearly stated in the law. There was a contingency of the committee on this point. Of course, a foreign company can have a fixed work station in a local data station other than its pre- or supporting activities. 4 mg. is intended to prevent the exception of 3 mg. abuse by dividing activity into smaller units so that it would not be a permanent work station. The activities of a company and its members, which they have close contact with the region, should be taken into account to determine whether they have a permanent work station here. Participants have a close connection in the sense of the paragraph if one has authority over the other or both submits to the same authority, taking into account all the facts and conditions. In any case, two parties are considered to have close ties if one party has a direct or indirectly more than half of the actual item in the other person or has more than half of the total value of the shares or the actual ownership share if a partner is involved, or if the third party has a direct or indirectly more than half of the actual components in both parties, or so carries more than half of the total value and has more than half the total value of the shares or the actual ownership share if it is concerned. 5 mg. is intended to help prevent an enterprise from avoiding taxation by getting another person to negotiate for himself instead of setting up a local employment center. An enterprise, however, does not seem to have a fixed work station in this country because of the intermediate operations if it is independent of the company and shows it within the range of its normal employment drivers. It does not qualify as an independent enterprise if it comes solely or almost solely on behalf of any linked enterprise. 6 mg. In particular, a foreign enterprise is not considered automatically to have a permanent employment station in Iceland because of the local daughterhood, since the blood company is an independent tax agent. Then I will inherit the province of low taxes. Six. The bill is submitted to the conversion of 57th par. a Treat on income taxation due to maintenance of low tax areas. In 1st. The bill is linked with a proposal for the loss of partners in low taxes. It was observed from the Ministry of Economics that, having agreed with the head of the state tax, it was necessary to look at the changes further, including their impact on tax rates in terms of law and individuals and the taxation of property. So the Ministry suggested that they be postponed for a while. To further shape the proposals, an expert team would be appointed to the Ministry's staff and the head of the state tax. Their strategy would be prior to the New Year's Eve and their implementation at the beginning of 2017. In view of this, the commission suggests that between 1 and 6. The bill will be removed. This huge turnaround package that I instituted with the committee in August contains limits to the recovery of interest rates. Multi-national corporate partnerships can reduce their taxes by financing a company in one state by borrowing from a partner in another state if the tax rate is lower. The former body can cut off the loan from the income of the taxable profits and the latter business may pay little or no taxes on the interest it receives. This is not only a failure of tax institutions but also a loss of the competitiveness of domestic enterprises against international enterprises. In order to cope with this, the Commission suggests that there will be a cut-off of interest costs and failures due to loans to linked parties at 30% of the taxpayer's profits. This is in accordance with the proposal in a work group report on the rules of thin self-financing from June 2012 made by various sources. Reasons may be to reduce the proportion once experience has reached this limitation. The committee then suggests four exceptions from the Order. First, if interest costs and losses are less than 100 million. K. The exception is intended for a simple tax service. There may be an occasion, such as the 30% share, to reduce that amount once there is a limitation experience. Second, if a lender carries an unlimited tax service in the province. A problem related to the thin self-imbursement is the nature of the case in minimal terms when both borrowers and borrowers are the taxpayers in the country, for borrowing money results in taxation from the lender. Perhaps this could be said in a way that allows interest in accounting to be in the interest of another person's accounting. Third, if the financial sum of taxes is similar or higher than the financial sum of the material material to which it belongs. This refers to a kit, in the sense of a law on annual accounts. The financial share is the share of the total sum of an enterprise. In order to avoid misuse of the exception, however, if the actual tax debt is increased shortly before the date of the account and declined shortly thereafter. Fourth, financial and insurance companies. It is thought that specific rules on the limit to recovery are needed because of these enterprises, but the international rules in this area are still under discussion. So I come to a state-of-the-count report on a tax divorce. Iceland signed May 12, this year, a agreement by OECD on the exchange of so-called state-based reports on the activities of international organisations. The report is aimed at making it easier for the tax authorities to determine the taxes of national-national enterprises, including by allowing them to discern the interaction within the kit. The Commission proposes a recommendation for a state-of-the-state report on the law on income taxes. The obligation includes a multinational firm that has over 100 billion dollars. ... ingraduated. That there is a principle on the mother-mate to return the report. But such a report should be submitted to the local motherhood if the motherhood is not obliged to report to the state of state or if the Icelandic government does not automatically have access to such a report based on an information exchange agreement with a motherhood state to be returned to the report. The secretary is expected to give further instructions on the implementation of this article, including the formality and content of the reports and the community of a full community. So I'm looking for information about financial companies, accountants, lawyers, and others. Seven. The bill suggests that there will be a significant increase in information related to financial companies, accountants, lawyers and others laid down in 4 mg. 94 st. legal on income taxes to the tax authorities. The arrangement took considerable criticism, including Because of the rich confidentiality of the respective parties to the client's shelters and the vagueness of the information obligations. On the part of the Ministry it was stated that there is a basis for further consideration. So the committee proposes that this article be removed. By the bill came, as I've been saying, a fairly extensive change in proposal, including What's going on with the Customs. The information work of toll authorities and thus personal information was widely discussed there. 17th, 18th and 21nd. The bill is presented with changes in customs laws on the information of toll authorities and communications with other authorities. Personal protection showed that it would be necessary to specify the precise personal reporting of to be done by the tax authorities in a comprehensive interest assessment in which the general personal protection issues testing the management of personal information and the need for management in terms of public interest are deemed necessary. In view of Persian defence commentaries, it is desirable that the Committee should further characterise tax authorities for the implementation of personal information. So the committee proposes that it be 17th, 18th, and 21st. The bill will fall off, but a group of people will be assigned to shape the recommendations on the identity of the tax authority for the processing of personal information, including creativeness and use personal information, in advance of interests. The number of patients assigned to the work group will include Federal Affairs, Internal Affairs, Police, Personal Protection and Customer. An Annex to the Committee contains a full list of the so-called VRA witnesses, i.e. The recognized operator for whom this acronym stands. The committee suggests that there will be a change in financial and economic proposal for a so-called VRA witness. This means that toll managers will be allowed to provide reliable legislation on the import or export of approved operators. There is therefore special management in customs and monitoring. A mutual recognition agreement is set up with Iceland's major export countries after the certification system has been implemented which will provide European exports with VRA funds for pay and observation abroad. For further explanation, please refer to an Annex to the Department of Economic and Economic Memory to the Commission dated September 13, 2016, which is a package of the Committee I am reviewing here. Transfer expenditure: The Commission suggests that the pressures made by an importer must be paid because of a defect in import import information on 22 paragraph. The bill will be 50% instead of 20%. It is likely that the warning effect of a 20% stress effort would be limited, and the source of stress generally takes a small amount of money. It is suggested that pressures do not drop if an immigrant argues that he is not to be blamed for lack of information. Many people come to the import of goods and importers, making it easy for an immigrant to feel that someone other than himself is responsible for problems. The obligation to provide proper information to the tax authorities rests on the importer according to customs. At the end of the committee, the Commission reviews a summary of other adjustments. On account of the Ministry of Economics and Economics, it was found to be 2 p.m. The bill involved in a tax payment on property transfers, rights or commitments to low taxes might violate the European Economic Area Treaties and two fiscal agreements to which Iceland should be involved. So the committee proposes that this article be removed. In between three and four. The bill is suggested that certain laws on the low taxes state apply only to taxation being shown to be comparable to those of this country. It violates the definition of low taxes in 2 mg. 57st. a treat on income taxes. So the committee proposes that the billing process be removed. In the 5th. the bill is mistakenly referred to a non-linked party of ◯ instead of a ◯-related lawgiver. The committee suggests that they will be corrected. The committee also suggests that an electrical company will be submitted to information required to the head of the state taxpayer according to Article 3. 92. g. legislation on income tax proposal of the governor. Eight. The bill is provided for longer periods of reimbursement of taxes due to income and property in low taxes. The committee suggests that the words of the law, which has not been fully understood in the tax accounts, will be removed, as this material is discussed in 2 mg. 97. g. a law on income taxes. On the 9th, 11th, 12th, and 14th. The bill suggests an increase of ten years in the number of taxes that will be reported to taxes in low taxes. The Commission suggests that further charges on income and property should be referred to in low taxes to explain that the directive does not apply exclusively to taxpayers in low taxes. It was noted that it was not clear whether the extension of the deadlines based on paragraphs 8, 9, 11, 12, 14 and 14 was extended. The bill would be designed to include an event where tax reimbursement authority had already passed or a fault was already subsided in the implementation of the law. The committee proposes a change in the 23rd requirement. The bill to explain that it is not. Other forms of change explain mostly themselves. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document number 1775 which I refer to here, a respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Hermies, Níelsson's son, were absent from the case. Hv. Senators Anna Margrét Guðjónsdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson and Sigmi Á. Andersen were absent from the case, but the literature under the authority of a fourth - mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir was found as an audition officer and supports this opinion. Under countless publications at the World Council of October 7, 2016, the following issue of Awake! Councilmen: Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Committee, Director Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Óli Björn Kárason, with the above mentioned, a skunk. Councilmen Anna Margrét Guðjónsdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, and Sigríður Á. Andersen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u91	V.E.G. President. First of all, thank you to the highest. Secretary of finance for taking the time to address this discussion today. I think, and many people are saying that the growth policy in Iceland is at the root of a lot of evil, if we can put it that way. We live in a flier that is far too high and higher than anywhere based on a bull. These high white - collar fruits fuel the view that interest rates to the public are far too high. These old steering growths cause the rise of a high - risk level that strengthens the crown, even too much, so the export road has begun to make a cry. One of the things I am interested in hearing from the highest. A minister is how he sees the Secret Bank's money policy, whether he thinks the legislator may need it. extending a helping hand to this money policy, which is showing that only a small amount of activity is involved. More and more people are coming forward to say how crazy this policy is. I'd like to quote one of the world's heads, so to speak, in Icelandic business life, president of the National Association of Business, Björgólfur Jóhannsson, a lot of business management. He said at a meeting the other day, with President's permission: ▪ I don't think it makes sense that we're watching this high interest level. Let us look at a different situation in neighboring countries that we are fighting. I believe that in the past few months, in a very significant way, the bat has made a huge mistake. He later said: I'm not a pessimist for my company, but I find a scholarship to the crown's gang and interest policy crazy. Period.How many points That is what the experienced and successful director said. Linguing economists have concluded that this is a growth policy that is completely lost. This is what I think is the biggest reason why young people who have educated themselves abroad don't come home. It is because it enjoys an entirely different growth system and a wide range of other growths, e.g. apartments and houses in which they live. They simply see to it that they can't come home to sit here because it's hard to get a roof over their heads compared to the interest policy. This, however, brings to mind what is also one of the things I want to ask the highest. Minister for. The banking system now owns two thirds of the government and could easily land everything in the hands of the state. We translators have spoken of a share of the banking system becoming a federal bank and/or a community bank because we are now in a mortal position to resupply our financial system in Iceland. Therefore, it would be helpful to hear the highest view. A minister looks to us to leap up the banking system, both to increase the transparency and efficiency of this system and what must be the ultimate goal, to lower the total interest rate. The high - interest policy is spreading into every foundation of the financial system, and it has the same value. As a result, the income fund, which is very active in both the loan market and the investment market, is 3.5%. That's a huge number. I simply want to hear from the highest. A minister of what he sees in him the possibility that the growth rate that the public and business live in the country will be restored to the point where we can get close to the neighboring countries we compare with because the neighboring countries that live with all other interest levels are not in the same way that we do. I mention, for example. Sweden, where there's not a lot of unemployment, although more than here, is economic growth, although it is not quite as high as here - there are men with -0.25% direction growth. [[The president calls.]] Here it is, it's 5.25. I'm not expecting us to go the same way Sweden did, but, as it says, sooner or later, there's quite a way to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u92	A respectable president. This is an important discussion that has to do with many aspects of economic affairs. But an apocalyptic who I would like to thank for the purpose of the discussion specifically mentions the interest policy and the events of the money policy we've been following. I'm going to begin by expressing my view that there is no law that Iceland's interest is much higher than in other countries. But there are reasons why the interest rates have generally been higher. There are a few. The most important thing is that we have seen the workforce taking place far beyond the country's increase in pay. I think it's also possible to say that it has happened in the last round, that many things have helped us in the outside of our environment and have kept us from seeing the impact of the last bargains spreading into the prices by inflation. In this respect, we have lived under perfect conditions to work with the results of our last cycle. Over the years, we Icelanders have been known to come to a conclusion in collective agreements that are not in any relation to the economic status of the country, thus creating an inflation that maintains a high growth level that leads back to the next phase where people have to work back what has been lost, which maintains the growth rate and leads to inflation and so on. We've been trapped in some sort of vicious circle of these cases. Therefore, the work that has been done in recent years to improve the work model in Iceland is a fundamental prelude to our achieving better results. In other lands, the growth stage is much lower and has been for a long time, such as. correspondent in Sweden But it is also true in Sweden that in one or two years, people do not raise wages by 10 to 12 percent. We increased, for example. pay about 13% in the last 12 months. No other nations do. But that is the main reason why growth is higher here than elsewhere. Another very important reason is that public financial matters are involved. During this terms, we have gathered here at the council, across all classes, and passed on to the law new regulations on public finances. I think that is one of the greatest progressive steps that has ever taken place in this regard. A question about the banking system has been received. I don't think the state has a place in it until the length of time compatible with the position that exists today, i.e. That we are to reduce the extent of the government's spending on financial markets. There is no state we compare ourselves with in any context under the circumstances where the State has a share of the bank system. There is no practice, and there is no need for it. Let us not forget that the Kingdom will bind its property in financial contributions to 500 billion of its share. However, we cannot change it overnight. We are to set long - term goals to change that situation. The work model I've been doing here is also hanging out that we're going to level the pension rights. We have some bad news in this subject today from the labour market who say that there is no basis for continuing with the SALEK meeting if the pension rights are not to be settled. In fact, more cases are mentioned there, but this is, of course, a fundamental. And now, before the end of this year, we are faced with the question: Will people here change the work model with the necessary action that everyone should know about? Are we going to level the pension rights, or are we going to continue to enjoy discrimination in pensions, Iceland? I say no to that. We simply have to finish that job. Then we should keep in mind that responsible government policy for the coming year is also a prerequisite for the state's stability and growth. [[The president calls.]] Lower interest rates can be successfully restored. We simply cannot act as we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u93	President. It is fundamental to the economy that there is a separation between money policy and government. Iceland's World Bank handles the money government and the government, and we here at the Generals take the public funds. It's basic that politicians don't have their fingers in the money administration. People, businessmen, and business operators can have a clear view that the interest here is way too high. They can communicate. However, there are experts in the area of money politics who govern the money policy and the growth in the country. It is fundamental that politicians are not in any way trying to force them into their own line of action. We remember when things were fixed at the General Assembly, I remember when the fruit was determined by 4% or 6%, or I don't remember what it was, while the inflation was much higher. This meant that the people were always paying for the product price. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir It's like, "Semodel Sæmundsson asking for something like that"? Is this what they're talking about, me and a politician, changing from the interest level in the country? We must do so in another way. I'll tell you what. A senator of what holds interest in this country, and he does so in contrast with what is elsewhere, that is, we have the smallest currency in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u94	Madam President. This is the classic conversation over terms in Iceland, where we would like to compare ourselves with the rest of the North countries when it comes to loans. The distinction between what is available in Iceland and in other parts of the North countries is seen in many places, and this has been examined repeatedly. When contemplating the North countries, you can either borrow insured or inaccessible. High - Hallfríður G. Hólmgrímsdóttir goes very closely into this comparison in a very good essay showing the difference between interest and loans in Icelandic and especially Norwegian banks. It also says that Iceland's credit season is longer than Norway and how it affects the rates of loans. We know that most people in Iceland borrow prices because they don't pay less money than those who don't know it. Our young people are having trouble getting a roof over their heads, but in Norway Husbanken has helped less wealthy families to cover their heads with roofs. There are lower interest rates from apartment loans, and then the difference we've been having with these is the price of an apartment loan and the loan from a business bank. What's interesting is the fact that people 183/4 of their age get a better interest in interest, and they can remember up to half a percent. It matters. There's not a lot of crap out there on the market in banks like this. Then we have some sort of payback problem and other things that are not known abroad. It is clear that the bank's customers in Norway are evaluated on their own, not on their own. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u95	A respectable president. First, I want to make a point, and there I am in a manner similar to that of a whale. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, that I think it's very important that we realize that it's not wise in any way that politicians decide to grow. It was like this once, and we are blessed to have an arrangement to separate the decision - making arrangement from our work. I'm not sure that politics will ever withstand any kind of pressure. They did not do so when the arrangement was different. It is difficult to have a high growth, however, there may be some very rich economic reasons for borrowing animals and trying to increase saving in communities. This is done with a high interest level. It's a control device, of course. Of course, it would be wonderful, and I've expressed it many times in this discourse, that we tried to establish a society in which we could be confident that the interest in the mortgages may be 23%, so that I am moderate, they in some places are lower than that, and that we could trust it. But I think you also have to be honest and recognize that these conditions are not yet available in Icelandic society to offer an unsecured mortgage on 2% interest. I'm just talking about mortgages because I think they're a little important in this context, they're long-term loans to consumers. Why isn't this possible at the moment? That's an important question. I'm not saying it'll never be possible, but why can't it now? Now we're experiencing a very intense rise after a huge contract. Classical, economic argument says that when it comes to steering equipment like growth, it is very bad to relax, because it can only cause us to lose our community in thawing. This occurred in the leading tide of the crash. Of course, growing is a measure of trust. I don't think that this kind of trust has yet been gained in Iceland, simply because of a lack of conversation, I've seen it from day to day, to basic economic standards so as to reflect it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And then we have the smallest coin in a world that's on top of a lot of problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u96	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for starting this important discussion. I'd like to take a little new friend and hear what's best. Secretary of the budget feels about what I'm going to suggest and whether he thinks these ideas could affect the money policy of the World Bank. I'd like to know if he believes that changing index calculations could affect interest measurements, as well as some of them, and hopefully to decrease. In response, the Agency has spoken for taking up a uniform index for consumer prices instead of the indexes of consumer prices. There is a difference between the index values that the standard index price is not expected for the housing team inside. The consistent index of consumer food is not an unknown phenomenon, but it is known and used in the OECD countries. Often in talks and publications, we also want to compare ourselves with various reports and reports from there. If we were to look at the difference between these indicators, the cost would have been 0.4% if we had had a uniform index price for consumer consumption in the last 12 months compared to the new Habitat figures. I remember it was 1.8% in view of the new Corrected Room Numbers in the last 12 months because we use the index price of consumers. This has led to greater increases in bank prices because the index is higher and thus affects the entire economy. Various economists have also claimed that because of the spread of the prices of property and loans in the country, these fundamental growth decisions do not affect the economy and that they do not affect what they are supposed to have. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he believes that changing the index or decomposition of insurance may affect the interest decisions made by the Office of the Bank to reduce interest rate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u97	A respectable president. This discussion is now a little confused about what was suggested. It even meant it. Consider the interest rate of consumers, the financial policy of the Federal Bank. First, I'm going to say that interest is a fee for money in time. In fact, the fee is taken to speed up consumption or delay consumption, and those involved approach some type of value in between, the ratio between, which is called interest. Inside these growths are e.g. A set of standards of trust. It's inflation, loan risk, and some other factors. Trust comes with a steady economy, especially with respect for savings. But my experience is, and I've been tracking financial markets quite well for 40 years and studying all over the last century, that respect for savings is absolutely zero. Money is thought to be a free quality that everyone can walk in, so interest is not to grow, so all who wish can only take it off. It's true. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, money policy, and government policy can never be the same. Similarly, there is a strong likelihood that such decisions as funerals and funeral decisions cannot be the same, i.e. They can't make a walk, they're free to go. I sometimes say that cab drivers at Keflavour Airport are the best decisionmakers on the Icelandic crown's gang. I'll also say about the chairman of the Business Association; he's in charge of a company full of authority to use foreign loans, but the Icelandic consumers don't. [[The president calls.]] They're being sewn up that they can't take advantage of low interest, so... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm going to finish my story. I hear the President's starting to hit a bell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u98	President. For word's Arnardóttir. Lára Before long, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the change in index is most important over time, not necessarily what is in it. When housing prices increase more than the other item in the basket, as they do today, we can say that the consistent index is more favorable because it does not increase as much as the index number we use. But what would have happened after a crash when prices dropped very much? What would have happened then if we had not been keeping the mortgage inside? The index would have increased much more than she did, and the loans inflated would have increased much more than they did. The point is, and insurance is a comparison between time and time. That's why they talked about it in the old days - I'm always coming because I wasn't born yesterday - messing with the index. They were hooked up with the index. At that time, the index was to improve the quality of something. Then, after a while, the worst economy in the world was messing with the index. There was always a change in the language. You know, if you keep on extending the language, you don't talk like that. Hence, it is not important in the line and how the price will rise whether we use the uniform index or not over long periods of time. On the other hand, we can take a short period of time and say, "It's better to have this, and then it's better... [[The president calls.]] So, are we just going to change our language every other day, depending on what we are close to?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u99	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion. This is quite true, in a 2011 report produced by the then Economic and Business Minister, which discussed insurance on a fairly broad basis, it showed that there was no apparent benefit for borrowers to determine the price of insurance on other indicators other than the indicator of consumer prices. But I think we all want to see it change. Nobody wants it like this. We do not want this high interest. They are low in most European countries and the United States, and even negative, as we have seen. It reflects the demand for loans or contributions, and then the economy relaxes. These high physical growths that we live in are very burdensome to many people. We've been over here on housing shoppers, tenants, and so forth. The heavy load of payment that then results in our continuing to borrow responsibly remains unchanging. It may say something about the high scientific interest here, which indicates that the economy is similar to that of many other Western countries where people and businesses hold back from borrowing, and where there is a much lower demand for loans than here. This is where the advising of a community bank was mentioned. We in the left have spoken of the presence of such a bank. It may be a good thing to say when it comes to elections. But I agree with what's been going on here with the Federal Department of Money. Of course, it's a complete separation from mine. It is very important that the government of the country be maintained. It's just the bank's device, the handle they think is necessary. Of course, we need to find some kind of way, whoever it is, so we can get out of the confusion that has been forever in Iceland. Whether it's the only crown to blame or anything else, let me not say about it. At any rate, if we don't change anything, we'll maintain this condition, whether it's economic or not or if the index is moving like this or gay with this or with the rest of it. But in any case, I think we would agree that we need to figure out some way to get out of this cycle. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your discussion. Some have had a recent theme, but to answer one question right away, the answer is: No, I don't want to be a member of the U.S. Department of Money. I'm not interested in that. And I'm not interested in the hand - to - hand growth of politicians as they did when we were young, some of us. I'm also not interested in creating a new normal bread, as used before, for the index. That's not what I'm interested in. I, on the other hand, rejoice as the highest. The secretary of finance says, of course, is the stability that has been developing in Iceland as a basis for confidence that men will go to the improvements needed to make in order to grow here. It is different, however, that when one expert from another is elsewhere, and they are in excess of the Federal Bank, it is stated that Iceland's money policy and the UN interest policy is galin - I can name Dr. Eric Stubbs, the financial adviser at Royal Bank of Canada, which had an article in the Morning Njálsson Press the other day, Marinó Ólafur Margeirsson. If I didn't agree with what these men say and point out, I would be betraying those who chose me to be members of the council. I'd be letting the public down in the country who chose me to be here. If I wasn't the voice of these people, I'd be failing my duty. I don't care if it's the Secret Bank, the Landsban or somebody else, there's a need to point out where you think it's better to go. I, however, take my heart to the highest level. Minister, of course, it is the stability we would make, slowly and quietly, which in the end forms the trust that is necessary for us to make adjustments. It hurts me a little that it seems that the members of the United States didn't have enough faith in the stability being made up. [[The president calls.]] It is as if they are the last to gain the faith and courage needed to strike this knot, although not in a single turn of hand. I agree with the highest, too. Minister, this needs time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u101	Madam President. Because it's been shown during the discussion that high shifts over the years have potentially attracted the risk money from home to Iceland, I'd like to remind you of the songs we made this summer. On the basis of changes in currency law, the Navy can set up the terms of cash binding because of some new inlets. It's very important. Other than that, I mentioned in my first talk that this discussion is part of the development of the money policy and what kind of money policy we want to run. The money policy we have comes with an inflation goal. This means that we have a fixed promise at any given time to use all available means to maintain inflation to the standards given, 2.5%. How has this been accomplished? It hasn't worked out very well. At present, we enjoy more stability and success in this regard than has been true for a long time. It is no wonder, though, when such a bad course went so long to fulfill the promise of the money policy that people ask themselves what is really wrong. I like that we take this discussion to see if we should follow an inflation goal or perhaps some other goal or work with the inflation target, e.g. The economic stability objective, thereby looking to the level of employment at any given time. I think the Icelanders should do more by asking themselves, " Why don't Sweden or Norwegians go out to us for all the raises here? ' Why do not people in the general labour market look to Iceland for envy? That's where the pay goes up 10 percent a year. Why are people not envious of this? Why do humans not want the same in their own country? The answer is simple; because it does not work out in length using the methodology we have used. We must gather together and stop trying to find the defendant. The Sikh is neither the bondsman, nor the Icelandic dollars; it is the fact that the Parliament and the labour market have failed to build a new model, a new frame of how things should happen. [[The president calls.]] This is the way to lower interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u102	Madam President. The subject of this matter came into the council in May. As a result of the information on the Panamas at the Assembly Hall and the media. There was a harmony question. In May a month of Congress that this bill was very positive, however, it was also considered quite a number of times. The senators who then spoke, when we review the discussion, would do more and do better. At this point there was a reason. The Economic and Business Committee held two meetings with those who are primarily familiar with this world, tax collections and tax frauds, and 1st. This case showed that we answered, at least Many, stressing the fact that such information would come into play. Now, as noted in the case of the day, the situation is significantly different. paritaprevir Willum Þór, son of Þórsson, who recommended the Commission's Committee for Economic and Business Affairs. Although all of us have opinions about how far to go, I believe it is important that the council be able to work together on these matters. I think that we've all put together a lot of importance on the activities proposed here, and that's very important to me. The committee has worked a great deal to achieve a solidarity on such issues as others. I'd especially like to mention a show. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, in this regard. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson had the proposed changes. I just want to review what I put the most emphasis on this job. I felt very important that this opportunity was new to me to deal with the so - called thin self - payment. I've had a bill for that matter since 2013 at the council. This was at the time, in 2014, when treatment was started. A financial and business committee suggested that the case be referred to the government. The committee expressed itself in a physical way. I was quite disappointed when it came to 2015, that no work was to be done with this committee's opinion. I asked the highest. At the council several times, financial and economic ministers were usually told that they were waiting for some development abroad. So when this bill was presented here this spring, it was my conclusion that it was appropriate to submit the bill for the thin self-finishing process. The conclusion was that the Ministry of finance wrote to us a memo on how to prevent the use of thin self - funding into this bill. The fifth unit of the transition suggests: We'll be right back in 57th. a new article from the law, 57th par. b, along with a heading as follows: Limitation of interest fees These are the suggestions given in the bill I gave but have a background in the proposals given by a financial and economic group that produced the winter of 20123/42013, and I don't remember exactly when it was, and it's running through these tracks. These are the same ideas as those about the reduction of interest rates and failures as a result of a loan deal with those that are defined, by 30% of taxes'profits, and the more significant interest rates and benefits. Like what? People know, and most people are probably well aware of the media coverage, it's about that when it's related to someone in which one has bases in a country other than Iceland, where he has a lower tax payment than here on the land, and the person who lives on this land is making his own profit, which will be available in this country, from a country that lends money to that person. This has been discussed considerably, e.g. on issues of particular aluminium companies, which are part of international organisations. But this is not all about them. It would be interesting to get information on which person this person might be involved, but of course, this will affect all of the kits that are linked to headquarters in another country and will be able to take advantage of a tax rate other than those offered here. We have seen that such rules have become increasingly accepted by other countries. I remember, for example, that when I first made this statement at the council, 2013, the British were filming such rules because they had been cruel to such international companies. I especially remember a case related to Starbucks at that time, but many more cases have come up. It has also been shown that with the changes we make, and I would like to mention specifically some changes in the exact amount of illegal taxes in the low tax countries, and suggest that there be money and possessions in the low tax countries to explain that this law does not apply only to taxpayers in the low taxes; there are certain explanations that we believe to explain more, since it was one of the matters that were discussed considerably. There was also a good discussion of the fact that certain laws on low taxes are only valid for taxation to be comparable to those of this country which violates other definitions found in 2 mg. 57st. a law on income taxes, so we suggest that it be removed as well. We put in here changes related to a state-of-the-state tax report linked to our international cooperation in OECD and suggest that these state-pre-country reports be submitted on income tax laws. The obligation includes a multinational firm that has over 100 billion dollars. However, if a mother's partner is not obliged to report such a report according to national or local regulations, or governments do not automatically have access to such a report on the basis of information exchange agreements, it should be submitted by the mother's partner. This is an enormously important article that comes in here. The article then contains a substantial work on how to define a fixed work station, and there is quite a long text about how to define it. It has been considered for the definition of the term, by permission of Presidents, a ◯Permanent asstabishment wrote as defined in the bifold taxation agreement set by OECD on which we built a considerable basis. We suggest that the definition in that creation, as it were, be legalized. Here are some adjustments made to explain. What may be most important to my knowledge is the big change in the size of self - payment or the limitation of interest rates. I think it might be the biggest change of material. Then there are certain changes like this one I mentioned earlier, on a state-in-state tax divorce report, which I believe is an important part of our international cooperation in these topics. Then maybe I'll get to the big lines in these cases. Of them, it is that as I mentioned at the outset, I believe the committee has done quite well with the matter and all the tax payoffs I consider to be an improvement. In fact, there are other changes not specifically done in tax research, and these are the proposed changes that relate to the customs manager's office. It suggests that the Commission proposes to propose to the Department of Economics and Economics that a VRA witness will be adopted in a special financial and financial situation. This is not a matter directly related to tax charges, but there is evidence to increase the monitoring of the customs manager by import and export of the approved operator. The Commission concluded, however, that in the recommendations made by the Ministry on this matter, there was too much evidence to provide tax authority on the processing of personal information. So the committee proposes that it be 17th, 18th, and 21st. The bill goes off, a team will be assigned to shape the recommendations on the identity of the tax authority for the processing of personal information and, prior to the implementation of these rules, we can say, stakeholders to the evaluation of the public interest issues involved in making clear sources of information but it is also important to be careful that the personal protection issues are in view of the fact that the proposals presented there were extremely broad and it is very important that the lawgiver performs moderate in the ability to obtain information about citizens. For my part, I have to say that all these articles are not directly related to IRS or tax returns, but I was convinced that the matter was good in itself and that it was appropriate to take it in this original case of taxation, even if it was materially unrelated. I will stand by it, especially in view of the fact that the committee came together on this preliminary principle in which this group will be assigned to define these sources of information. At the General Assembly, I find that at times, we are quick to offer a variety of such sources, which may often be choroid and chord, according to the laws, and it is important that we cultivate the method of making serious evaluations of the interests mentioned earlier. We simply rely on this group's work. As a result, it became a matter of preliminary action, not just of the committee's opinion, and we view it as an indication of how such sources should be defined. I think it would benefit everyone, not just the public in the country, who will be able to tolerate this authority, as it were, but also those institutions that should be monitored. In this context, I would like to mention that there is a discussion on this subject, and there may be something waiting for a new council, that it is important to shape the rules in general on how the public products of such information and what information can be added to that subject and what information is not and how different government databases are used. I am very close to the fact that such a discussion will be taken up. I'd like to finally go over the big lines in this case. There's a lot of ideas here that I think will improve. I don't think we've reached the end of the government's actions against tax fraud. One factor is that it is very difficult to assess the extent of tax fraud. It has been estimated by the government taxpayer that every year taxes may be worth 80 billion. which is a huge sum of more than one. The expenses of the Education and Culture Department every year, so I'll just take one example. But we do not have any clear information as to how much things are linked to taxes. We've seen other types of food, e.g. in a recent study in the Nordic Taxes Journal, where these sums are estimated to be considerably higher than 80 billion. I believe that although the measures presented here are in order to improve, we are not at the end of this case. Even if we have these sources, we must not forget that there is a great need to strengthen the agencies of the state that are under tax control. I'd like to name a tax manager and an tax investigator, but I believe that investment in these institutions will yield much more money to society. I believe the General should take a very decisive stand against tax returns. I expect this case to be agreed upon when it comes for release. I expect the General will continue to take the initiative in dealing with the national ills of taxes. That's what we're supposed to do, e.g. by investing in our surveillance institutions, which are sometimes referred to by the council as some kind of surveillance industry. It's about us playing on the same playground and following the same rules and conditions we return to society. There is concern when we see evidence that the black economy is even growing. I was at a good meeting at the Industrial Association the other day discussing the extent of the last government's enterprise, which was aimed at earning annuity tax from work in construction and maintenance of housing would be fully reimbursed, instead of 60% at this time. It was their estimate that this was of great importance by the Association of Industrial Affairs to prevent tax collections, and it was up to them to propose a reinstatement. It was interesting to me to hear and believe that the reimbursement created a lot of incentive to avoid black employment, i.e. to take them into their own hands. I think we should watch that after these elections, the government and the Allied are working hard on these agents in cooperation with the labor movement and in cooperation with the employers and are making a progressive effort to deal with the national ills of taxes. Even if these measures are improved, as I said earlier, we will not be working on this unless we strengthen these institutions and we can all join together to fight this. The question of the amount of tax collection is not good for anyone, neither for the employee in this country, which most are paying for it, nor for the job. We're supposed to aim together for this objective and to get it, and that's maybe the last thing I want to say, there's a clear key to the tax politics. In fact, when you observe an international discussion on tax issues - and we're all too often discussing government revenue, whether it is sufficient for the work we want to do - that the tax system and the tax Catholic are about much more. It's about the equations of interest, the equations of income, the equations of property, and one of the things we see today. We're supposed to talk about it, actually, we talked about it only yesterday, me and the highest. Minister, whether or not to use the tax system to reduce that imbalance. In fact, he believed that it shouldn't be done, but this is the political lines that we deal with in the world too. We're here to discuss this transparency, too, because we have a system where the funding flows from country to country. We are part of the EEA Treaty and part of it is not only free movement but also capital, and we know that it has been new for a purpose and that is because of what many European countries are talking about, at least 11 European countries have agreed that a tax, low tax percentage, is the right to pass on money between countries. However, this seems to stop in the European Union, but this is one of the things we will have to deal with in the coming years, namely, 11 nations. The fact that we need to look to international tax change to a much greater extent. A significant review has been made of the fact that information exchange agreements have been made, and that is true, a great deal of effort on such topics began during the last term, and this rate has certainly been continued. We are members of the OECD Community partnership on the BEPS program so called, but it's my view of this -- now I have no more time to discuss these matters - that we'll have to deal with and discuss much more international cooperation when it comes to taxation and there the transparency will have to be more. As has been noted, by the fine French economist Thomas Piketty, only one means for very wealthy people to choose their own taxes. It is worth considering how we avoid talking about taxation between countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u103	President. Thank you for your excellent speech and cooperation with the Committee. I'd like to hear what we're doing. paritaprevir Katrin, Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, because something was discussed about thin funding and upstairs wondered if we were going far enough, feeling that the alien who had gone away, and what the next steps should be when we have experienced this. As mentioned in the Senate speech, and in the shadows and in the dark, I find it extremely important to behave. Although there were some 600 lawyers involved in the Panama Documents, it is worth keeping the data leak from only one bank or company that helped set up bills in the tax industry. You wonder if you can go further. I spoke only to Transparancy International, Norway, with specific suggestions on how to deal with what was presented in the Panama Canal. Of course, you're glad you're taking some step, but I'm wondering if we're going far enough. Are they stepping, and perhaps naturally, careful steps to master this? Is it possible to master this vast problem that we are trying to deal with in this letter of law?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u104	Mr. President. In terms of the thin self-finishment, the suggestions presented here, i.e. that the warrant is limited to 30% of the taxpayer's profits and then the exceptions are in harmony with the bill presented here in spring. I took these suggestions directly from the service group. Then the Ministry suggested going further and aiming at 25%. After a discussion on the committee, it was decided to suggest that we keep to the suggestions of the group and thus my suggestion, so I can't normally be overly anxious about it. But as mentioned in the committee, and I agree, it may be a reason to reduce the proportion once experience has become limited. But the important thing is that we've brought in the prince's hand, or the foundation, we've brought in this letter of law, if this is to be accepted, and it's less difficult to shape this proportion later. So I'm quite comfortable with these landings, even though they're not sacred numbers. However, this is the ratio relative to that of neighboring countries, and we have similar rules. It's about what it's like. A senator says of this fundamental principle, about the secrecy and transparency, I would like to say, as I said at the end of my talk: We have built up a system based on certain banking standards, where certain countries have even built their economy on being secret for information. More and more people come forward and criticize this point because, yes, we are within our countries, within our part of the world, trying to set rules for people and businesses. Those who are so able to avoid such rules, in the power of their wealth, take advantage of this secret coating. I'll get to that in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u105	President. Thank you so much for the answers. I think it's important to keep it in place that just as countries can get together to be hidden, other countries can agree not to cooperate with such countries. There are a lot of people who may not realize that one of the biggest taxes around us is in City of London. It is said that Switzerland has a large U.S. Just the fact that those who are able to do this is the key and important thing in this matter, resulting in discrimination. Everyone wanted to be a man with men and sign up for a tax bill because there was some ◯trace in Iceland; people didn't seem quite aware that it was creating an overwhelming discrimination. Even though people did not necessarily have a lot of money, they showed a certain thought to be on a tax bill rather than having everything on a table. You heard all kinds of excuses there, in the wake of the Panamas. But in view of the fact that there are two tax rates, such as whales. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, came in earlier, I ask: " How much money would there be that could have been used to build up Iceland's infrastructure, lost there in various parts of the world's tax field?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u106	Mr. President. It's a predator question, and I don't have an answer to it, this last question. But these are just so important. There's a senator coming in. It's a little eccentric, I think, by the way, we have a number of world records based on the appeal. For example, we have tens of thousands of private associates who are actually just around individuals, which is very unusual. We also seem to have a worldwide record of putting money on tax cover, even though we had no money underneath, just using this sly new device. We've already put world record in stock markets, since everyone had suddenly become stockbrokers without possibly knowing it. Iceland is so small a community, changes are going to be so strong and strong. For example, there is the Facebook usage of Icelanders, where we have actually created one global database of almost all people on Facebook, where almost every American company can have access to what almost every Iceland eats for dinner, for example. One is this, with this tremendous tendency to do so. But if we look at it more systematically, we can say that the tendency is that it is primarily the very rich ones who make use of these societies. Of course, this is why, for example, we have no real evidence of how wealth and possessions are divided in the world. It has been suggested that perhaps the safest source for the richest men in the world is Forbes magazine, which published some list. But there, if you study that list, it's really just that you're drawing conclusions from the data available, which are not particularly great. It's worth considering that this is just nowhere because we've built this system, this secret coating. And, of course, it takes a concerted effort by countries who want to change to resist this and gain greater transparency. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u107	President. It is a joy to see that society has been molded and helped to make our communities to some extent more honest, more open, and more productive. Indeed, it can be said of the person who first leaked data to a German media medium, who then began a huge and extensive cooperation with respected newspapers around the world in an effort to work through the complex information in that leak. I would like to use this opportunity and thank the person who put the information in place for the courage, for it is not only in Iceland that this has moved people, or members of Congress or other agencies, to respond in an upbuilding way by spiting in their hands when it comes to setting a law against tax fraud. I didn't come to the Economic and Business Committee long ago. We've been doing some serious business on the committee, and I have to commend the Chairman. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonson, for the work that has taken place on the committee. These are issues that are not merely complex because they are economic issues, but economic issues are always spoken of as being so enormously complex for some reason; that should be so that every child could understand them, for in understanding and enlightenment, there is a certain transparency. I also want to thank other members for my cooperation, and I have found it very helpful to be on this committee. I am particularly interested in the economy and particularly interested in using our laws to ensure that everyone lives in the same law, for many have experienced that laws work only for the common people, and then some people have found ways around the law to be so called ◯unuchables. It is the case with such a law that although they are perfect - in fact, there is no perfect, and in particular no law, but though they are as good as possible, law does not last if the spirit of law and society does not completely agree that the law is righteous. It's one of the things I've often pointed to at this workplace, that it's very important that we stop believing in the letter of the law and start allowing ourselves to perceive the spirit of the law. It has to be said that when I sat at a meeting of the Committee, we were listening to a government party going over one particular team of law, I got a little bit of a chill. It bowed to the factors involved in the customs of the toll authorities on personal information. Now I don't know how many members of the council have seen the great Movie Minority Report, but I felt a little as if it should start to legalize that kind of authority. In its own reviews, it was conclusive that it was actually the object of this fire within the law and that it was, in effect, a burning man who was a stowaway. After a considerable deal of contact with e.g., I am forever grateful to the Committee. Personal protection and other bodies, to realize that this article of the law was not necessarily in harmony with the purpose of the law and had far too much authority to take advantage of what may be called the digital spider web. That is why I am glad that instead of taking in the 17th, 18th, and 21. The bill was decided to remove it and that prior to the permission of the customs authorities for the processing of personal information, the Committee agreed and set in temporary regulations about it, to specifically specify the authority's access to the implementation of personal information, to follow the careful assessment of the general personal protection issues that would be used in treating personal information and, on the other hand, whether development is required in terms of public interest. So the committee decided to include the following: In view of Persian protection commentaries, the Committee considers it desirable to obtain more detailed authority sources for the processing of personal information. So the committee proposes that it be 17th, 18th, and 21st. The bill will fall off, but a group of people will be assigned to shape the recommendations on the identity of the tax authority for the processing of personal information, including creativeness and use personal information, in advance of interests. The number of patients assigned to the work group will include Federal Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Internal Affairs, Police, Personal Protection and Tollsman. I'm very happy that I decided to go this way because after I arrived at the council, I've noticed that there are all kinds of stowaways in quite extraordinary numbers of laws, and it's amazing what it's trying to get authority to go into our personal files. In this case, which I thought was so amazing and amazing, even came. ... from the Ministry that these databases, e.g. The database is extremely extensive and must be partially simplified by the police file and it is real surveillance and regulations on how to delete people from these databases. It's so that if anyone comes into this police file, it often comes with the like. Close family members, who are naturally remarkable. Then there's the information about dead people, and if you report that your cat is missing, you're on the police file, and so on, and that's a very serious crime. Happily, we have people at the council now who have a special focus on human rights in the digital world, for they are, of course, exactly the same human rights as in the physical world. It often seems to be forgotten when efforts are made to get authority to collect and cooperate with our personal information. I'd like to take a little less of what the Ministry said, which was logical by allowing what we've decided to wait on. It said, for example, by permission of the President: It is inevitable that personal information will be used in such activities. - In other words, risk of customs control. The sensitive person information that toll manager has actually needed to use customs monitoring and diagnostic work is information falling under the b-and-c team 8. track No. 77/2000, character protection and management of personal data, i.e. On the one hand, information as to whether you have been suspected, charged, convicted, or convicted of criminal action and, on the other, on the other, on the other, on the count of -- drugs, alcohol and drugs. By analysing this information, you may be able to identify certain patterns - notice, pre-active study permissions - ▪ and identify a person more likely than others to give the incorrect information about import or import products that are forbidden to import or access other import restrictions. When I saw this, Mr. President, I thought: " What on earth has this to do with the main objective of this bill, which is a bill for government action against tax fraud? Fortunately, this particular bill has been particularly enjoyable, and there has been a group of committees on this particular committee with open mind and ready to listen to one another, which I find extremely important in this sort of committee. There have been a number of changes made in one part of the bill, which, in my opinion, strengthens it and makes it better. I hope this will be the first process, the first major steps to control the harmful behavior of large tax frauds and the impact they have on our society. There were also other things I was happy that we had to catch landing by, e.g. A definition of a fixed operating station. That made sense. You might say we'll probably have some way to catch those who are going through a grisly law, as has been done about the thin self-finishing. That really means, let's say that you build a company in Iceland and that's part of some other company, of course, it costs something to start it, but then these companies often go into blue business, and then you can sort it out, because the business owes something in another country, you can move it somehow, so it's like they're still in mine, and they really don't need them to get involved in paying for the community. It's always pretty lame when it's a giant company, and there's no firm as bad with such a sort of thing as an international firm, for example Starbucks, Apples, and the other firms, who act extremely pigly, an enterprise that could actually pay the natural fees for the profit that will exist in the countries where they have a business. This has been handled slowly and biting in many parts of the world, and it is necessary. As a member of the international community, I believe that it is important not to be abused more than many other factors. [Landed at the Assembly Hall.] The Drottinn bless you. I hope you're not getting black death. I make it clear that sneezing was a senator. I think it must always be this way, both by law and by other, that they must have a certain flexibility, they must be so that they can be fixed fast and well. Those who have an army of lawyers that float from country to country to find windows are quick to identify them and when it becomes clear that such gaps are first abused, the law needs to be addressed and adjusted. It has often been criticized that this thin self - payment has not been handled before, why there is still a hole in the law. Now they're trying to deal with what's good. There are other things in this law, they're slightly energized. I like to think that I think it's very important that we as a nation get into making good laws for the informants, in fact, they've created a bill, but somebody's been in the ministry waiting for someone to move it. If there are some that we can be grateful to press on to this subject, it is those who have often risked their lives to do so presented information to the public. Often these people are hunted around the world, as was the case. Snowden. As we look at the origin of these dramatic changes in gross tax frauds, we have also seen great changes in public and journalists'rights to information. We have seen how important it is for the media to be independent and to do more research on complex matters so that the public can develop opinions based on information. In the final part of this talk, I still want to follow a definition and only a better explanation of what is always a concern when it comes to personal information. In a way, all the databases that are always trying to get authority to make money have become monsters of some kind. Recently, e.g. In this article, detailed review of medical and pharmaceutical data. I think it is absolutely important to make sure that there is money to fit into these databases and particularly databases that hear directly under the government because it has become such a huge spider web that it is almost impossible to have a perspective on the information being collected, how these databases are combined, who have access to them, and so on. This includes police databases, LALE, and other information files. I'm glad you're not doing this for a full-time job. I hope that before these sources become reality and reach the customs manager, the work that I know is being carried out in the State Department on the databases and getting a perspective and setting up a proper frame. I understand that those who are working on important issues are subject to the protection of citizens of the country who want as much information as possible but keep it in mind, and it's been repeated, in fact, and so on. from those who have used databases to identify terrorists, that they are extremely poor, because those who intend to promote questionable behavior realize that it is better to go another way. Like other questionable pursuits, they are always one step ahead. I can't wait to be able to support this case, to thank the Committee, and to hope that this will make real money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u108	V.E.G. President. We're discussing government action against tax fraud, and thank you very much. paritaprevir The daughter of Jónsdóttir for an excellent speech. Hv. A senator sat as an officer on the committee and her work enterprise in this great and important matter, and may be said to be complex, complicated I say because it involves changing many laws or legal classes, such as income tax laws and valuable tax laws, public fees, and toll laws. Like what? This is especially related to customs monitoring and customs, which deals with the collection and handling of personal information and the constantly assessments that need to be considered on the basis of whether more public interest and safety and then the treatment of personal information and personal protection issues. Hv. A senator made a point of his speech on the 17th page. which in the base is about local files and 18 gs. There's information exchange between office and 21 st. which is the treatment of sensitive personal data. I must commend myself. A senator for his hard work, especially in this chapter, to make a decision about the matter. How can you tell? A senator Visualizes the Future? She got into the work that's in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, but how is she doing? The senator to such a thing, e.g. Toll authorities and other authorities should consider this in any of the overall contexts?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u109	President. I thank you very much for your counter-sponsored cooperation with the Committee. I think it's very important that before giving us permission to add very sensitive files - as in the case when we speak from what you read from the Ministry that, in fact, all files are submitted, e.g. the way people drink alcohol. I think almost all Icelanders consume alcohol, so it's gotten a lot bigger. I'm always a little scared of premeditated sources. It has to be said at the moment. During the last term, I kept asking the police repeatedly that when they have to ask for something, how to use it exactly, and if they had any examples of how they could have benefited from it, they just have to say as it is that the answers I received were not very convincing. We already have absolutely good defenses when it comes to access to the land. We are a natural island in the Atlantic, and it is not always easy to establish motorcycles. The threat, called the threat, was used over a period of time in an effort to obtain premeditated protocols. The vision of this must involve a careful review of what this means. I don't think that a lot of people have a deep understanding of how often this can be a major intervention in privacy. People suffered a little bit when some people hacked into Vodafone, texting, and saw that anyone could get access to them, and very personal relationships were spread everywhere. I'm done with my time. I get to finish later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u110	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The daughter of Jónsdóttir for a thorough answer, and I know she'll fill up better in the second answer. I find this particularly interesting after this work, especially in this case, because such a collection of information is such as and often being involved with sensitive personal information, and the truly ideologies being introduced into and presented in the Annex to the Committee on the Management Board, VRA witness, which is about to be used by the customs authorities as a matter of risk management. I expect that these systems will need updated and that they will actually be revised to all the sources that, for example, are available. Tolls have to work with such information. So I believe that the government will welcome further work. That's why I'm looking forward to how I'm doing. A senator then breaks down this answer and directly sharpens it. A senator to see this further about the staff, but in paragraphs 17, 18, and 21. The companies involved in these activities are appointed to work with them. In view of the discussion that took place earlier today, I cannot help but be tempted to give a second answer. A senator who may have been involved in this matter in that time was discussed in a special discussion of careful legalization and speech speed. Here, we have a very complex and complex issue. I can use this opportunity to compliment myself on making contact with the Commission, the Ministry, and then with our committee secretary and the Committee for Strong Work and Cooperation over all of this and I might want to hear about it. A senator will see if this can be an example of how a committee can work well and how powerful the committee field can be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u111	President. Fortunately, there are exceptions. What worked with us is that this summer council has certainly increased, originally to be lived before September 2, so we had much more space to work on these complex issues. I don't know what would have happened if we had to finish this before September 2, for example. The more time you get to review the situation, the better the final product. Therefore, I would like to further strengthen the expertise we've been creating at the council and get more people to go over the law when they first come in here, because pressure is often being made to finish it faster, etc. For the vision of the future, I agree completely. This group must be carefully reviewed in a collective way. As I'm saying, I've had a meeting at the State Department, and I know work is being done. I have also had the privilege of writing a resolution for the International Assembly on what is needed, among other things, to ensure human rights in the digital age. There are some suggestions that will hopefully benefit from the work that needs to be done. I will certainly continue to use myself in this group of subjects and to bring up the latest information, for there is a very rapid trend in how you can find solutions to the threats to the threat, to having too much intervention, and it can have a very cool effect on normal democracy if you have no privacy, no shelter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u112	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion at all. We all know the reason the bill has been submitted, but there was information in April and May on Iceland's property in taxes and possible tax returns; the need to be taken care of. It's a pleasure to know that this has been taken care of. As early as spring, there was a bill presented here at the council on this subject. This changed substantially in the work of the Committee, and especially with very detailed suggestions from the Ministry and the local institutions of the Council for the summer. Since then, much effort has been made. This is highly technical in many ways, and it involves a lot of work. I think that needs to be commended. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson in particular for his progress in this matter. I have to say, as it is, he hasn't always felt jealous, but he hasn't let down his dough. Here's the bill with some careful adjustments from the Committee. I'd like to mention one case specifically, which is now in, i.e. The so - called thin financing, which is a limit to the recovery of interest fees. We know that in international corporations, they have paid interest to the maternal society in other countries, and then they have reassigned to paying taxes on the land. The Commission suggests that there will be a cut-off of interest costs and failures due to loans to linked parties at 30% of the taxpayer's profits. This is consistent with the proposal in a workgroup report on the rules of a thin self-finishment since June 2012. There were a number of factors that contributed to this. From this, however, there are some technical exceptions. First, if interest costs and losses are less than 100 million and this is for a simple tax service. According to one authority, when experience has reached it, there may be reasons to reduce that amount. It is then noted that problems associated with thin funding are of negligible value when both borrowers and borrowers are national or local taxables, but this is relevant if one company is tax dependent here and the other company in foreign lands. I'd especially like to call attention to this point. Second, there is an exception if the borrower carries an unlimited tax service in the province. Third, if taxes are equal or higher than the financial sum of the relevant kit, and fourth, there is an exception to financial companies and insurance insurance companies. It is thought that specific rules on the limit to recovery are required by such enterprises. But an international rule in this area is still under discussion, according to the committee opinion. This is what I wanted to draw special attention to in this great work that handles very many things, in many respects technical, but very important. I'm going back to thank a senior for a good job, and I'm not going to delay this discussion otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir's daughter for an excellent speech. I'm going to respect that part of her talk so that I don't be extending the discussion much, so I'm here in just one answer. I'm going to thank her in particular for the warm comments on the case by the manager and also the work of the Committee and thanking her for her cooperation, a real pleasure in an important matter. Because of what? A senator particularly covered the limitation of interest rates then was the joint conclusion in the end - it's a bit of an opinion, it's a complicated matter of living, and it's taken a long time to get this into legislation and it's really nice that it's finally done after both Congress and the work group. A senator referred to, of course, there are exceptions - going in with mildness so that we can discern how this will come out and perhaps follow in the footsteps of the nations that have gone this way and are more rigid when necessary. Thank you. A senator for the cooperation of the Committee and a good speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u114	A respectable president. I studied transportation in general in my first speech and in particular the conditions of the road system. What I would like to add to the second talk is public transportation and their importance in the future. We need to begin to view public transportation as basic services, as well as the metropolitan network to support, strengthen, and, especially, domestic flights. We can see that Istavia is a relatively strong and well - equipped company, but because we do not have a similar arrangement, such as the one that has the same structure as the one who has the same size. In Norway the massive vegetation that goes through Istavia does not take public transportation, i.e. to make the flight practical as part of the public transport. There's something that we really need to consider that, and that's why I strongly agree with what seems to be the greater part of the country's national airport situation is not good. It is very important to look for new ways, and I think we should take as an example how things are done in Norway. I'd also like to talk only about the growth of public transportation in the big capital area. We're growing. In the last 50 years, the size of Reykjavík has grown immensely, let's say, over the last 100 years. If the city continues to expand as dramatically as it has in the past 50 years, we will be in Selephos in another 50 years. To help reduce the use of the private car, we must go to densely populated areas. This calls for strengthening public transportation in the city of Reykjavík. I think the State should contribute to this, just as it does to certain roads elsewhere. The majority of Icelanders live in the big capital area, where certain services are served. We need to decide that public transportation is the future. And public transportation is the future because of climate change. Who knows what it's gonna be like in 20, 30 years, the private car's gonna be ready? Public transportation is a far more practical option, but for practical purposes, people also need to use it. For people to make use of public transportation, they need to be frequent and comfortable. In such countries as the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, and even Norway and Sweden, you can see that there is much room for comfort in public transport to produce quieter carriages, train cars, and so forth. We need to make a big effort. I think one simple way that would be interesting to try to give a bus pass to the state workers, thus encouraging them to use public transportation, to see if it would affect the way the public transportation decisions were made in the future. That would be very interesting, for it seems that those who use public transportation, no matter what transport is meant, experience things a little differently. Public transportation is not only a bus, a airport, or an airplane that we need to tap into the public transportation network but also a bicycle, and it needs to strengthen and encourage people to ride. According to Reykjavíkurburg, in the past few years, even though we may be 30 to 40 years later, we have become extremely built up when it comes to bicycle riding. Many people hold back from riding because it's so cold in Iceland and bad weather, but it's just gotta have it. We're talking about transportation, and then we're not just talking about big monuments, we're talking about little things that make people move around. The saddest thing about it is how late and bad it is when it's snowy. It's unsalving or salty, yet it depends on what rural society we're talking about. But you can make an effort, such as. which turns toward the presence of the presence of the community in the process of clearing the streets or shoveling the snow so that people can get on their way. We are not the only land in the world that lives on snowy winters, and it is not as if we have to invent the bike. In North America, where there is a lot of snow, people have certain responsibilities toward the nearby community that include clearing their homes. The same is true of shaving leaves, etc. Because people can fall and break their arms, and I don't know what. I especially think of older citizens who may have become unstable. I also think of those who have disability and therefore need to use wheelchair. Often it is simply that there are entire choppers in front of the chimneys, and people can't reach land or shore, and they may not have the strength to try to move between places. Of course, if access is not good, it contributes to making personal use of the vehicle. Although we're in a particular struggle when it comes to making a private car a real choice, I think we need to make public transportation a practical option at the same time. I think public transportation can be properly arranged in a very varied, easy way. We see that after the fall of 2008, the number of people who take advantage of public transportation has grown tremendously, and they feel all right. I think the government, the government of the high Council, the government, has to bring rural society in the way of making it a real option to use only public transportation. This means that we need to put money into them. It takes to create a proper transport system, whether with light particles or with more expensive chariots, which are still more convenient to use. It would also be possible to create some incentive for those most unlikely to make use of public transportation. Public transport should be for everyone, not just adolescents or those without a car test. I often think that those who use public transportation are looked down on, and I think we'll fix it just by getting in and participating in it ourselves. I'm not going to keep this much further, and I'm going to close my discussions about transport plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u115	A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to say about the transport plan that the paper under consideration is, of course, less of lost opportunities, less of poor management, because here we have a plan that is not just two years in advance, it's also two years back in time which underscores how badly this class has been held during the season. I'd like to say in the end, because I've held three talks before, and my time is limited in the fourth speech on this matter, that we in the smaller part of the transport committee encourage our committees to cooperate with the rural communities in the capital area on the development and funding of a so-called city line, a new Light Read or Acceleration System on the basis of a regional structure in the capital area. Such a system would make extensive public transportation and facilitate a densely populated area of the capital, thus working in behalf of climate targets and reducing transport emissions of greenhouse gases. In this context, we remind us that at 144th C.E., the legislator's proposal to consider the practicality of train transportation in which the Council concluded to hide the Minister of Ministers of the Interior to have the practicality of train transport between the Chefjordur airport and Reykjavík on the other hand and the easy-reading system within the capital area. That work, as agreed by the Generals, was to be completed in the middle of 2016, but it is important that it be completed as soon as possible. This is relevant to those of my previous talks about the importance of building a public transport system that is real and useful to all and that is a real alternative to other transport. Similarly, I have limited the lack of those on public transportation between our international airport in Keflavík and the capital area. In fact, it is not possible for an individual to come to the country to leave the airport directly on the bus or to take advantage of public transportation. People must take advantage of a private car, a taxi, or a bus ride, or a so - called airport shuttle. It's unacceptable. We are to have these matters prepared and equipped so that people can use public transportation. This has been quite successful in cooperation with rural communities in the capital area and the Road Building, preparing and making roads around the city so - called bikes. It is a remarkable project that is still being carried out, and it will be fun to observe how the process unfolds. In the same way, however, local communities in the capital area and the government are to work in harmony with the synopsis adopted this year to explore the possibility of an easy - to - read system. I think it's logical the next step. I think it's also logical the next step when it comes to bonding between Keflavík and the capital area. Another factor that is remarkable is to consider how time works, and evolution affects the way we see transport. Now we've heard its voices from the region, the entrepreneur Róbert Guðfinnsson of Siglusar, for example. has pointed out that it really is part of the future vision, as he sees it, that a new airport will be set at Hassarla as a link between national and international flights. Of course, it is logical to consider such developments. It serves the national interests of making it possible for tourists to come to the country and go straight to the region without a stop in the capital area, on the southwest corner, where the greatest crowd is. But I have entered this matter in my second speech. Finally, I'd like to say, "I'm very pleased with the cooperation achieved by the end-of-the-line transport committees, and I hope that the board of directors and us at the council will succeed in implementing a one-piece transport program during this ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-11-168.u116	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall reports that the committee and good cooperation were achieved, and we have achieved many positive changes in transport planning. Thanks to that. Now we see the end of this discussion, which has been a long time, and at the same time, we see the end of a job that has taken a lot of time from an environmental and transport committee. We've discussed the transport issues, and we've been through this group in a very careful way, but as most people who've observed the discussion have not been able to get here to complete a transport program during this term. It's very pathetic. That, however, has to be explained, and perhaps in recent years we have been looking forward to improving the interests of the people, and we have seen the land rise, but as soon as we see the rise of the land, we need to look out for the balance of the treasure and we must not get too far ahead of ourselves. Unfortunately, transportation has taken a little off. As a matter of fact, I think most people agree on today that we can't wait much longer, and that's why it's very pleasant to see that we have, for example. progressive agreement to make a significant increase in the maintenance of money around the country. I think that's a very positive step. I am also glad that we have taken up many important roads, roads, and roads around the country, not just roads, but roads that have needed more money because of bad conditions. We are now seeing that the roads that have waited for even decades are now being funded and will soon run out. I name the first valley of Hörgárway, a road that is not driven by tourists, two very dangerous bridges and that has long been called for road reforms. They're finally in port now. Thus, residents of Hörgár valley and Hörgárk, near Akureyri, should be very happy with pleasure, but this road has been restored year after year. We also see additional contributions in the Bárder Valley Road, a similar road that has been pushed back year after year and long waiting. He's now a great tourist road because there's not only Gordras that all the people of the country know but also Ald Island Falls and other beautiful nature bulbs that are now being discovered by tourists. They're secret pearls. There's the road to explosion land, too. It's good to be able to put money on such a road that unfortunately has been returned year after year. I must also say that it is most enjoyable to say that for the first time, funds are placed directly designed to reduce the ticket price of domestic flight, for the first time that funds are taken in particular, with the goal of finding ways to lower domestic flights. We've seen that international flights are extremely important, and it becomes more important every year. This is our public transportation. We live in a large, vast country, and there must be some of the greatest quality of life possible to fly from home to Reykjavík, a center of service, health institutions, and education, our capital, and that it can be done in the cheapest way. It's a big deal now. It's too expensive. I've repeatedly pointed out that there is no better luck for flying within the country than for flying to more distant countries. So we're going to place this money and to put it down in the opinion that inland the cost has increased by a quarter in the last 12 months, but international flight costs have only increased by 6% at the same time. We'd like to be checked to see if it's not possible to offer all the domestic flights, and the cost of flying will be paid for real costs, and if it should be done in a longer time contract with Istavia now, or if the agreement should be changed so that it will be handled as a means of maintenance and maintenance, not a business, as it is now mentioned. We believe it is possible, e.g. To examine the so - called Scottish way of handling airline expenses to those living in remote locations. This may be one of the biggest factors in strengthening our country's settlements, especially those that have been hit. It is good to also report that for the first time, we are putting the sound of air at the Akureyri Airport on a transport plan. There has been an elbow child because Istavia has not trusted, on the basis that it is not in the transport program, putting money into it. So we have had to place the budget for each year in order to ensure the transfer of the material. Now that the sound of the air supply has been established, I can't see better than that good transport efforts will be realized in the years to come, at least That's what we're going to do in a transport program. It has also been called after Kappus Road, a road along the river of the glacier. There are many of the most beautiful natural spheres in the country, but access has been very difficult for them over the years. In recent years, we have placed a lot of money in building up the road. He's ready for Falls and up to the soundlets, but he's been missing the link to forming this important ring, the so - called Diamond Ring, where people can leave Akureyri and drive to the Lakes and to the Jack Gorges, down with Kajifs, and down in Köldundur, and then to Húsavík. The local people have talked about the fact that this may be one of the most important factors in promoting tourism in that area. We put 1.5 billion to finish this over the next two years, which is extremely important. Then I'd like to name the harbors. We're putting a lot of money in ports in the Northeast District, Dalíkíkía and Siglu fun. Samerji is going to build up there, and he is going to build for the future. It is only natural that the government will come to strengthen the harbor and make it possible for much land to be done there, as well as much for us, not just for the harbors but also for the runway. We're moving the road up to the skiing area on avalanches. All of these are very good and important tasks. During the short time I have to break down all the good tasks that may be in other parts of the country, I did so in my previous speech, but I want to celebrate our putting money in the Sunfalls, the Forest Coast, we added in 2017 and 2018 250 million. We also place money, about 120 million in 2018, on the so - called Microshaft Road of Whales. There is a road that leads to the grave, and the locals have noted that there is a very bad condition. We are also putting 50 million people in preparation and invitations on Axes Road in the East, a country that has been called in advance. Now we are making sure that Ox can be built up as we complete the Berufjörður. What an important and important way to tell us that we are turning it off! There's a lot I haven't mentioned, but we're like... Also putting in a change regarding Húsavík. It suggests an increase of 348 million. K. This is something that had fallen into budgets for 2014, but it was pointed out that it would have to be guaranteed and good that it had become a reality. I'd like to finally thank the Minister of the Interior. She's been getting on the box during the discussion, but I'm sure she's been fighting for extra funding for this seminary. I thank the whole committee, both the majority and the smaller parts, for patience and for the pressures put upon all those who have something to say about transportation, and for the inconspicuous interest in the case group. It has been agreed to try with all means to increase your donations, and there has been an understanding that there is a need for improvement in the seminary. The discussion has been perplexing, and it has been on a high level as far as I'm concerned. I need and especially thank my partner in the Northeast District, Kristján L. Möller, for good words to me. He specifically commended me here, and I loved to hear it from a government senator. I believe we have been a team of soldiers in this suit rather than with opposers, and I would especially like to mention that we are now putting our money in research on the early design of the soil between Siglusfjords and Rivers. The two of us made a special adjustment. I believe this is the first step that these tunnels can become reality. We fought for Hindin Straits and Vellar Passage, in fact, with other Councilmen of the Northeast Cathedral. Sadly, though, research shows that there is a much higher traffic rate, which becomes more important than previously thought, and was criticized as predicting that these predictions were overcalculated, and the cost would be high. Not that the work may not have gone hand in hand. I would especially like to thank Ingi Jóhannsson, the current prime minister and candidate for his interest in the seminary. There was a huge difference when he entered the Ministry of Presidency. The interest and understanding he displayed, and the struggle he was willing to contribute to the government for further contributions were new. As a local resident, he showed a great understanding of the need to make significant improvements in this group of litigators. We, who have been fighting for more money for a long time, certainly had a hawk in the corner and perhaps explained why we are getting this tremendous success now, that the fact that he was coming into this Ministry is of course the most important thing to say. In the end, I'd like to say something. The fight for Reykjavík Airfield will continue. I will do my part in the struggle as I was before, even if I'm disappearing from the Council and this is probably the last speech I'm going to have. It's a very special thing, I must say, to keep it here for an empty assembly hall, but would like to say that many have participated in this discussion. It was on a high level, and it was challenging, and hopefully we'll agree to further expand transport for the next year and lose.
