ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u1	President would like to announce that he was delivered yesterday, on Monday, September 26, instead of Ásmundur of the Einar of Daðason Dareda, Hauksdóttir of being a guardian of the European Security and Cooperation Agency, in line with Article 16. Convention on human exchange in committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u2	The President wants to report that there will be a recession at a council meeting between hours. 13 and 14 today, due to committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u3	Mr. President. Now there are only three days left of this meeting according to the work programme with these including. Today's program is a big deal, big system change. That is still the case in 1st. and will go to the committee and through two more discussions. Here's some extra cash for the 1st. and then a few cases, two to two. and one to the 3rd. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, how on earth humans have thought that the coming days will be organized and that there will be a work programme here. Actually, I think it's obvious that it's an empty matter to talk about bringing large system changes through the council in three days. That's impossible. I'd like to ask the highest. President, how's it going to be planned for the remaining Senate Day?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u4	The president would like to report that at a meeting of the council classes and, indeed, also on the Presidency Committee, it was considered that it would be highly unlikely that we would succeed in this programme in considering that there are large issues that are still on committees, or as it were. A senator has said, two subjects that we will discuss today, and the discussion will continue. Of course, the president hopes that we will soon be able to grasp the subject we are dealing with, which is completing certain matters. The sooner they come to light, the more we will be able to deal with them. Today, as early as Tuesday, it is assumed that a meeting can be held until midnight and if well done, the president will hold the hope that the program will have to be completed and then started tomorrow. As everyone is aware, this week's meetings were expected to fit in at exactly the same time. 10:30. The exception was made at a meeting today because of the request of members of Congress not to initiate a meeting until the end of the year. 11 But in other respects it is assumed that it would be possible to begin at 2 C.E. 10:30. But the president agrees that it is very important that you can understand the subject ahead, what case you can complete, and what case you need to complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u5	Mr. President. I have a lot of respect for the highest. One president believes that he has shown great effort to ensure that a contract is done in a natural way. In many ways it has been successful both in the spring and in the fall. Everybody's got what? Senators put forth a lot of effort. There's been no talk here. Most matters have been handled objectively here. As it turned out, however, the work schedule was extended to the highest level. President mentioned. Now it may begin to be a little shorter in patience. Congress officials tell us that the subject needs to be settled, as mentioned by the highest authority. President, meet the specific matters to be completed. All of this is said in a very hairy and hazy way. Mr. President. There's three meetings left. V.E.G. I'm sure the president agrees completely with me that we're supposed to have long since set aside this subject of ◯. We should not be in complete confusion as to what to finish and what to do, especially because there is nothing in the Senate that has given us reason to limit our political affairs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u6	The president agrees with what? A senator's success has been very successful, and this fall council has been very successful. We've done a lot of big and small things, and we've been talking about things like that. A senator said, grammatical, sometimes detailed, sometimes shorter. In no way can the president find that any of that sort is involved in the council. The president prefers to say this, so we need to get our hands on the subject and also realize that it is not entirely in his power. There's more to come. The president is not going to play dictator at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u7	A respectable president. I feel the need to remind you that it was the government himself who decided to shorten the election period and set election day on October 29th. There is a possibility that this government will not succeed in completing all the cases she would have liked to complete. I think it's a strange reality we're in. When I'm at the highest. The president says that there is a need to finish certain matters. We're calling to find out what specific matters that are. We should really be leaving here on Friday or Thursday. I'd also like to point out that I'm assuming that something is going to go further in here and that there's no wonder. We've got senators who have huge votes and are having a campaign. It is a real difference if people are held here to elections and are unable to play a campaign in their elections because the government is having problems with this and back again and seems unable to communicate, either between itself and the government. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm calling for President to take this full swing and we'll start to anticipate the end of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u8	President. It is the heavens and the sea between taking on real programs and controlling the floodwaters set out here and being dictators. It's not equal. Let's keep in mind that the president has the agenda. I find it amazing that there are still new issues to be received, even though there are still three days of Congress left. There are new cases still coming, Mr. President. Shouldn't we take action? How should we be able to participate in objective discussions when there is no real consultation with the lesser section and the committees do not even know for themselves what matters should be completed in the committees? It is always called for opinions from people in the city, calling visitors on a case that no one knows whether to finish or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u9	President. That's exactly what happened at the highest. President that he said at a meeting with members of Congress yesterday that he felt that a work plan could be held and concluded on Thursday, but he was now not alone at that meeting, there they were with him to whom he had called. They all protested and said that this work isn't working. This should be over by Thursday. That would be big things that would have to be done, the legal cases, the tax frauds, and maybe one more or two. It's quite possible to finish by Thursday. The rest is just to be removed from the table. A respectable president. We're finished, I'd like to say, as a good example the President himself commends us members of Congress over and over again. We haven't had a Senate job yet. [[The president calls.]] These delays are because the government is totally powerless and out of control and doesn't know which way to go. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u10	A respectable president. As the president of the United States noted earlier, the Senate work in everyone's opinion has been brilliant, and I am becoming deeply concerned that now we are discussing a bill that is about 100 billion budgets, and a work plan is clearly under way. We don't know what case to finish. Then I have to say, as it is, you're beginning to see a little bit of your perplexity, which is a very terrible situation. It's terrible to be in a position to regret something like that that that should now probably be in civilized Congress, but of course, as we all know, it's just not in the real world. That's a very bad lesson. I hope I don't have to tell my next party to be always boring and never be at peace. That would be a very boring lesson, a respectable president. I hope I don't have to give it to her. I've mentioned this before. This is important. We need to know how to set priorities. Setting aside time for bad and wrong affects the work. That's a problem. Is the President in charge of this council, or is it a government?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u11	A respectable president. I think there's two sides to this case. On the one hand, that is what happened. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was to mention earlier, that no matter what the government may do, the disrespect is always absolute, whether we are here, crying and groping with interest, or having a part in objective discussions, and things go through the council as they have recently been. It's just that it doesn't matter, it's not supposed to talk to us, we're treated with total disrespect. Then there's the other, and it's how this assembly is controlled. It is set out that October 29th is to be chosen, September 29th should be completed, large cases are entering the council, and no attempt has been made to sit down, as one does when he is conducting his own time and planning his own time, assessing the size of the project and whether it will fit in on time. [[The president calls.]] None. [[The president calls.]] It's a mess here, a respectable president. We wish to get an overview of how we are going to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u12	A respectable president. In the past, the highest power cried. Minister of society and housing that all the cases mentioned should be completed, all the matters the government has already proposed. Then I'll ask you, shall we also finish all the matters that mountains like this? of surrogacy, a parapolitic agreement not to complete? Is it, e.g. your will? Shall we finish exactly everything you can think of? So you're just going to get to roll over my section and Congress?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u13	Alcohol bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u14	Shall we finish the liquor bill? That'd be great. I would back that up. What are we going to finish? This isn't gonna work, Mr. Honorable President. Here's a 1st. six issues yet to be discussed, of which one will be scheduled now, and we have three days of Congress left, no two, no three, I don't know. Now why not sit down and try to do it like a civilized council like this once? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to make a comment to the President's conference board. I would like to make a comment that the president does not accept the authority he deserves. President wants to finish this council properly, I know that. I know it's the highest. The President of Einar K.. The Son of Guðfinnsson wants to finish it so that the council keeps the dignity through this final day, I know that. But I also know that we still live in a position where there's a gas line in this sort of discussion here by the Ministry class, that individual ministers feel that it is possible to have a semi-charity and gasrum from the Ministry class. V.E.G. Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary of finance speaks of a few more weeks. A respectable president. Government's over. It's the Council that's all right here. It is the Council that maintains its dignity. It is the General Parliament who is doing his work well, and it is the General General who has planned his work schedule and will conclude on Thursday.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u16	A respectable president. I have an idea. What if a respectable president simply did not attend a meeting until the government had set its priorities? This is a very self-denial requirement. It's not an obituary. Knowing what cases to complete and what not when there are two, three days left of the council. It's getting funny, a respectable president. The chair must be placed for the door at some point. If they don't have these, then when? When exactly should the council be determined? How is this communication with the government supposed to be? Is this how the government controls the council? Is that how it is, Mr. Honorable President? Some people mean that we don't, but it always seems like, when we get into such a situation over and over again. This is a bit predictable, except that this time the smaller part, according to everyone, has been extremely complex. What are we gonna do, Mr. Honorable President? Are there any ideas? I made a suggestion for a respectable president. I wondered if a respectable president has a suggestion for us. How should we react to this? What would be the most critical of all of us today?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u17	A respectable president. It's funny in all of this that we're here to vote on 29th October, the Work Programme is September, and now we're on the front board and say, "We want to stick to the plan. " We don't know what case the government wants to take care of. She doesn't even make a list, as they say. This is ridiculous, there are two days left, and we can handle three, four big cases at the time, and make it decent so we can hold our heads up and pretend we've done our job well. But what issue does the government want to run out of? It doesn't make any sense at all. Secretary of finance spoke of here yesterday, as if we were going to sit here for weeks. [[The president calls.]] It's just a joke. I say, as the minister often says, "It's just crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u18	A respectable president. I want to face challenges presented here to the highest level. The president is taking matters into his own hands now. After three years of being here at the council, I feel that the Allied Council is not independent for five dollars. If it should be well, we should vote for the Commission and for the General, because it is the government that will take over the council. V.E.G. Mr President is the president of all of us. There'll be no better work if the president doesn't put his foot down and say, "This way, no more." I'm the one who's driving here. There are new issues that are not involved. These are the things we're about to finish. I don't understand what the government is actually messing with at the Council. We're supposed to finish this. I mean, really, when I say that we should vote for the execution and for the general, because there is no such thing as trinification of power.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u19	The president wants only from those words and others who have died in similar circumstances today call attention to simple things. It is true that the president will take the program day by day. The president sets up the program and usually tries to agree reasonably with members of each body, members of the council. Finally, though, it is this - because democracy, which is solved, if it cannot be solved in any other way, has power - that even though the president has this program from day to day, the greater portion at the General Assembly can change the program if he chooses to do so. That's the arrangement here. Of course, the government's involvement in the program is influenced by the way the government is organized. In this fall, however, the president has made an earnest effort to work in an effort to cooperate effectively with the situation. Senators on the program. The President is quite aware that it is not always that way. Congress members are happy with the program as it is presented, but the president has tried to have good consultations. Even so, while there is disagreement on the subject of disagreements, there has been an orderly order in the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u20	A respectable president. I agree with this analysis at the highest level. But that doesn't make any difference because we're past the time when each day can be spent in the wake of another day calling for the Commission's will as far as the council's program is concerned. We are past that time. It's today and two more days we have here to finish things. I say, we should stop asking the government what they want to finish. We're here to watch the issues mentioned. We're supposed to take an informed analyst's position on what it's wise to finish, what business it is to complete, what subjects we've finished to defend, if we're to keep our heads here as lawmakers, to finish. That's how we're supposed to approach it. It is obvious that there is no avoiding this government. The right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. [[The president calls.]] We do not know who is directing the government, so the Council is expected to take this position under the president of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u21	A respectable president. There has been talk of conflict and conflict. As I see it, there is conflict and conflict between the parties and even within them. Such major issues as a long - term process of transportation because members of the board failed to agree on how to handle it. We have a case in the Environment and Transport Committee on rural income that arrived in November last year. It cannot be settled because members of the governments do not agree on how to handle it. We have a large financial and business issue that can't be resolved because the members of the board disagree on how to handle it. That's how I could go on counting. It's not on the board. Are we really going to spend this week waiting for the advance party to solve the domestic conflict? This is not going to happen at the council because people are not ready to take a stand because they are in the Presidency of the Future and the conflict there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Nothing's going to happen here. We're just in a waiting position. [[The president calls.]] Let's take the power now, the respectable president, the members of the council here, and not let the fighting in the leading company direct this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u22	Mr. President. I agree with the idea of not entering a council meeting until an agreement is established. The other is so different that it would be wise to announce - if it is the order of the president to implement the program and determine how things will turn out - at nine o'clock every morning until they decide what to do. I agree, because here we are smirking ministers from the side hall, that it's unsurpassed how ministers behave here from the Ministry class. V.E.G. The government itself decided not to have a four-year period, but it is still going to try to pin matters in here. I'm asking the highest. The president is expecting a discussion on how this is going to be over, whether members of the Parliament will be able to complete this with the president. We're all in the government like the rest of us, going into a campaign in big elections. [[The president calls.]] But I'm gonna ask the President that there will be no evening meetings until it is time to finish. [[The president calls.]] There is no reason, for there are not many issues here in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u23	President. Of course, I think it's important to keep my respect for the President of the Generals. I know that the President has certainly done a lot to keep discipline here on the program. But now we've made a new plan for the work we're trying to do. I think it's a great disrespect for the government to the President of the Generals, only the right thing to say. It is, as was shown in my case earlier, still being offered a new case. Clearly, the issues involved are not running out now. This is why the current government is not authorized. On the other hand, there are many good things that are ready to stress the importance of passing through the council during informed and objective discussions, which I would like to mention most of the effects of delinquency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u24	A respectable president. I thought the president of the council was the president of the entire council, including the lesser part, not just the greater part. In our smaller parts, we have been completely cooperative when it comes to e.g. not with a code of speech, don't be unduly boring, except now, because it's only enough now. On Friday, September 23rd, a conference of three or four came to an end. Yet, there were very controversial issues on the program that would have been very easy to read. But we cooperated. I ask a respectable president to step in and also to be the president of my part of the Generals and not to be over us with this depravity. The Generals deserve better than this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u25	The president may easily be irritated by such comments, but he does not intend to do so. President is the president of the entire council, and he has worked in that spirit. This is not so, however, that when a council is being conducted, everything can always be done in a manner that everyone likes. At times, a decision must be taken, and it can happen that not everyone will be equally pleased with that conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u26	Mr. President. I want to make these words of a president mine. At times, action is needed, and it may not be done the way everyone likes it. But the situation has now become such that it is the government field that must be taken seriously. We've been here very businesslike, forgiving and working hard. We have shown understanding that certain matters need to be done. But time has been bad. The whole and half days haven't worn anything but tight. These include just three days. The government's post is not gonna be dragged on their asses any more. She's taking the stand. That conclusion may not be compared to all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u27	V.E.G. President. I come up here like other senators and I'd better say a little bit surprised at the position you've got up here. I want to remind you, to the highest. The president was elected with votes from many anti - generals as well. After all, we trust in the highest. A president to be president of all councilmen. This has been a revised plan until September 29th. We are now in the air, and we get to read about it in the online networks that it is questionable to complete a council at that time. At the same time, the government has not told the government what issue it puts first to finish. We've got to stand up here, chief. President. This is simply not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u28	The president now wants the reasons for this discussion to focus on the program that we have in front of us today. In addition to the unprepared time of inquiry, we are discussing two issues in the year 1st. which began in the middle of the last week and could not be completed. It is the matter of the State's Penitentiary, which is a case that has been for years, some even say for decades, in preparation, and came to a conclusion earlier in this month. In agreement with this, the budget is set up to allow legal resources to meet this agreement. Other issues involving these include: has been called in for, the currency business, the disposal of capital breakers, to the 2nd Environment. The president believes that the program is entirely very normal today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u29	To answer, Prime Minister, Department of Social Affairs and Hospital Affairs, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to make a subject of a news report in the News News magazine, where Ófeigur Tryggvi Þorgeirsson, the regional director of medical care at the Grafarvogi clinic, fears the financial resources of health care centers in the capital area. The motive is to change how the clinics are financed. National Centers are being offered and increased private operations are being implemented. It seems that, just as we talked about when the budget was done, the clinics are going to compete for patients. It is not to include extra funding into the system. It is to add private stations who take the money from the public to expel themselves. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister how he feels about the policy of personal choice or of putting in the increased private business of the clinic, which is basic, as it is obvious, and how he feels that it is possible to do without considering that policy - making discussion at the General Assembly. What is the policy of the advance party in private operations on basic medical standards? What is the vision of the future in this regard? Has the highest. Don't Minister worry about the position of drawing up as a result of an invitation and private business at the clinics in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u31	A respectable president. I understand a question. A senator who is involved in political politics and policy, but may not be exactly the business of this group, since it is under the health minister. So the government and the Ministry of Health and the Minister have emphasized the importance of supporting health care. It's one of the most important things I think we would agree on had to improve in health care. That has even been true. A growing number of clinics in the capital area have been done with the greatest lack of domestic medicine. We also know this from the past, perhaps ten, fifteen years in advance, that there has been difficulty in obtaining family doctors, or doctors to accept the specialty of family medicine, including the fact that they had only one form to enter, i.e. working on state - related health care clinics, while other specialists have been involved in different forms of business. When they changed a few years ago - and I can remember nothing more than that the Conspiracy participated in it, and the forward party did so too, setting up a business e.g. At the Hall and other stations that have been very successful and have set a good example of how health care can be run effectively - in these years too, we have seen that there has been a growing number in a group of young doctors who choose special health care. The problems we have faced primarily, that we have had a lack of doctors to perform domestic medicine, have been changed because they envision greater opportunities, such as other experts in the country. That's why this has been a good policy, a good development. It harmonizes with what is available in the North countries, and the forward movement party highlights the ability of all to seek health care regardless of the economy. [[The president calls.]] This is done in this system, where the funds are moved with the patients but are not confined to the clinic. It is crucial that services are available, that the doctors are available, and by this policy, which has been the same as in the North countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u32	Mr. President. Now, the doctors coming to the new stations aren't coming from abroad, just to be said here. At the top. The prime minister agrees that it is important to strengthen and strengthen the health care center. But I want to pray to the highest. The prime minister to answer me in a clear way when I ask: " Does the applicant party think that the right way to strengthen the health - care centres is to take them out and make the stations compete for patients? Does the advance group feel that it is a good way to get to the position we are in right now when basic health care services need to offer them out and put on other stations driven by the doctors or associates in town? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u33	A respectable president. If I haven't spoken clearly before, it's the Agency's policy to secure everyone's health care. If we have to do so with varied forms, as we have been doing for a long time, and most if not all classes have participated in it and blessed it, if we continue in that course, it must be the right way to guarantee health care and family health care for all. It is simply so that even if it is possible for doctors to go to these new clinics in Reykjavík, their jobs will be set free. I know that young people are coming home from abroad to study places that we've been up to over the years, around the country at a new government clinic, which is a very good thing. But it's a variety of forms that make sure that we get staff to do this, go to the special school, because it's been the aggressor of this system that we haven't had enough family doctors. Now, having a variety of shapes, we seem to be doing much better to ensure that. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u34	Mr. President. I wanted to have a place to speak at the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs, for I made a note in her speech yesterday that she was reviewing various projects in the Ministry and specifically mentioning it and saying, under the permission of a president: We hope we're making a deal with disability to ensure that they'll be able to improve as old-age pensioners receive new social security laws. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to these words, for we who have observed these matters from outside have not heard of the fact that such a agreement is in sight, i.e. We know that the poor decided not to participate or report on the work that was the foundation of the social security bill in this room and that they have had certain requirements, e.g. In terms of the impairment rate they have stressed to be lower than the 45% expected in a social security bill at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs. They have focused on the holidays and on putting the special forwards into income insurance and, of course, the raise of a dollar, i.e. to get an increase in the pension at a value of 80 to 1,800. K. the next year and also a retrospective increase. That's what I have from my memory without being an expert on these matters. That's why it caught my attention when I was at the highest level. One minister said that there was an agreement in the sight of an invalid. I'd like to ask her to inform us here at the council to see if we can expect this agreement and what it means.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u35	A respectable president. I thank you for the inquiry and for what. A senator would have listened to my speech. I also listened to a talk. In many respects, a senator was very good. It's just like whisk. A senator said, I mentioned that we had worked hard to reach a conclusion regarding the necessary changes in the pension system. At the end of the Social Security Committee, first under the leadership of Pétur Blöndalur, and when he fell off, under the lead. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn Sæmundsson of Sæmund, split the committees so that members of the labour market and the administration groups met together for a certain conclusion, but the Microcollar Community and the Government put together some other proposals for change. That was quite a disappointment. That is one reason to work on making suggestions was delayed because men were trying their best to reach conclusions in the commission work. Afterwards, after receiving the suggestions, I set up a staff with the main stakeholders, stakeholders of the labour market, and preached to the older citizens' work, Developmental Help and the Microcollar Alliance, to win the bill itself, such as to help build up the text. Sad to say, the Qualification Community decided not to participate, was not allowed to attend a meeting, but we tried to keep them informed of their work. Then, when it turned out that we couldn't get together about the changes in the pension system, but only with older citizens, and that bill came into this council, we convened our desire to meet and to compromise on the changes in the system. We have a number of factors that we are about to pass on. [[The president calls.]] I sure hope I can then put it on the Internet for a review.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. She was here quite a bit over the history of the case. As I understand the highest. The Minister is at the Ministry or the highest. Minister to prepare for some system modification in the case of disability. But I asked about, and it's best for me to repeat that question: Is there any agreement in view of the overall organization of disability to attack such a system? They're as clever as they come. A minister points out that they will soon be introduced in an agreement with the Quantum Community or made without agreement? Have I not met up with regard to the demands I quoted earlier? ' In fact, I forgot to mention a very different focus on the ability to work, which has also been the case. I request a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u37	A respectable president. What I've been trying to stress is to meet the different views of the committee. Never can anyone get everything they want but must look to some sort of compromise. We are now allowing the cost of the proposals, for because of the disagreement that led to this, the changes that were being made have never been costed. Hopefully, it will become clear in the days ahead. However, it is likely that it will take a little longer to get a conclusion in this regard. The idea there is that those who enter the system will be able to evaluate them and those in the system will be able to choose whether they want to enter a new system or be in the same system for. Then we look for ways to promote the rehabilitation of life, prolong the period that people can spend in the rehabilitation of pensions to help them get back into the job market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The most important thing I think is to take off a penny in return to a dollar that's what's gonna matter most to the pensioners who have the least. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u38	A respectable president. I direct to the prime minister of a inquiry that may be heard by other ministers, but I would like his position and vision in this matter. It's about domestic flights as public transportation. The value of getting to Reykjavík with domestic flights has been very effective in the Eastern Union. If people drive, it's a mile away. It's been pointed at, including of Jóna Árný Þórðardóttir of the East Bridge, a Scottish route designed to subsidize aeroplane costs as part of public transportation for locations that are at a certain distance from urban areas. It is widely recognized, and we know in Iceland, that people must attend a great service in Reykjavík. Although we would like to build up a national service, we know that much of the service will always be attached to the capital area, special services, the largest cultural events, and so forth. I find this Scottish way that has been called very interesting. In effect, it aims to subsidize domestic flights to those who have a local legal home. We'd be talking about Eastern in this context, but this could even be true of the West, as would it, and even the northern part of the country. It's just something to look at. Of course, it would be some money, but we put money in settlements each year, and some things may not turn out well. These are locals and residents in the country suggesting a way that I find truly exciting, and I also feel that we should be ready to examine and experiment with all kinds of advantages. That is not to say that we are going to do this forever but that we are going to put it to the test. I'd like to hear what's at the highest. There's a minister in this kind of operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u39	A respectable president. I thank you for this very interesting inquiry. During the season, we have been studying four - year transport programs that will be discussed and accepted. It is also there. setting aside certain funds to look at air subsidies within the country. The debate here in the country has been for a long time in terms of competition or some EEA principle that it can't be done. I've felt that there are ways to find and point out, just like the dog. A senator here points to Scotland, which was, or is in the European Union, Scots are not yet out, although they may be on the way out because of Bfenit, they have had such rules, that we have examples of growth rules, to form in the Orient, or around the Eyjafjörður, or southern Vestfjörður, or major capital area between White and White years. It would be natural to include some tax appeals to people who can get them for travel to and from home and try to associate them with public transportation. If public transportation is there and people can take advantage of it, we need not go that way. This is comparable to what happens in the North and North Europe in most of the world. We had public transportation in the South, where a large number of tourists have been able to help, but it has been very successful. We tried to set up a similar arrangement on the Southnes. Then it happened strangely - and sometimes I've been worried that in the administrations, we interpret the rules so that we're more Catholic than the Pope, so I use that concept - that then the Contestance Commission grabbed in and said it was a violation of competitive law. It seems to me that it was overlooked the interests of the public, but it was offering public transportation from Cheflavour Airport to the capital area that could yield some revenues that could be used to subsidize public transportation, where there were skilled people, further up to the Westland, even to the mainland, or to the Southland, and then to the Orient. I feel right and just want to say it to answer it. A senator I find interesting to examine all these factors. [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to look at this about Gímney, paying special attention to flights for the people of the Giorese. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u40	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear an interest. Prime Minister in this matter. I'm with the Facebook crew called "The Precious Home-Englage." It's Ívar Ingimarsson's name. He was on the news yesterday or the day before yesterday. In his view, these expensive flight costs are one of the largest cohesion costs. I know it myself, living in Akureyri. Although I am now paid for my travel expenses, it is a road block. This can actually stand in the way of building up. It's important to have access to the safe transport that is actually flying all year round. I hope that next term will be considered in this matter. We have Scotland as a model, which is still in the EU. I agree that we are often more Catholic than the pope when it comes to the introduction of this directive. That shouldn't be the problem. Let's find out what we're talking about in money. It's worth it, isn't it? I have to say, if I wasn't living in the Eyjafjörður and was to move myself through a place, I'd probably move to the Orient. A truly amazingly beautiful area, a measure of diversity, perhaps not a lot of employment, but still jobs are available. But for some reason the population is not growing as you might think. The distance from the capital is important. I think, if we have, for example. A penny in mind, that being able to get back and forth in one day, knowing that you can, it has an effect. And funerals, bar mitzvahs, doctors, and all these things we have to go to. Here we are talking about some kind of transport balance fund. It's not for oil, it's for people. That we balance the situation between people living in the capital area and those living on land. [[The president calls.]] I hope it's something serious that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u41	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. In many parts of the country, there is an interesting opportunities for housing and, fortunately, in recent years, there are increasing numbers of jobs, the communication system is improving by the photoengineering of the whole country, we have taken major steps in this ideal period, even though all the projects have not been fully completed. I agree that the flight should be carefully examined. It is possible to wonder and have been examined now in connection with the groundwork, or transport system, to subsidize an airplane fuel in the same way as other fuels. That would be a significant reduction in the rate of flights. This, of course, is the East and Cape of the Hornfjord. We can see a comparable point about the Western Islands and was mentioned only in the currently relevant community plan that when there is no harbor, there is a four - fold increase in the cost of a four - man family. These are all factors that we should consider. Now we are in a position to do so. We may not have been able to do that a few years ago. But this should be a complete look, all of these. I think that there are very interesting things we can expand and secure, and thereby improve people's chances of living wherever they choose to live, working with what is available, without cost or some abnormal distance barriers to the possibility of such a farm.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u42	President. During this term, many strange things happened, such as when it was decided to transfer to the Ministry of Justice and Offices of the Second Ministry. So I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he would see occasion to return and clean up the work that the former prime minister took for his special personal interest in the minister of the seminaries is subject to a culture. I would suggest that, under the Ministry of Presidency, projects and institutions are subject to national culture. It can be found in section 3 of Step 1. Presidential decision to switch administrations between councils in Iceland's Management Board: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The cultural guardianship, including Buried and buried. b. Protection of national prices and migration of cultures. c. Intelligent cultural values to other countries D., protection of houses and construction. The protection of historical, cultural, and environmental and organizational issues is therefore linked. B. Minjas National Institute of Iceland. G. National Museum of Iceland It is clear that these changes in the work of the Ministry of Presidency are the rest of the business and the expertise found in the Ministry of Education are more likely to keep close in mind these classes. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. Whether it is available to clean up and bring these important organizations into place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u43	A respectable president. I guess so. Not to be suggested by a senator, now at the end of this election season, we are going to make a significant review of our plans. I think those institutions are what they are. A senator noted that during the election season, the Ministry of Presidency was very successful, and that work was then intensified. There are many who agree on this, although of course they may appear to be different. On the other hand, if we look at this whole thing, what's to be in place, it must be the agreement of the government at any given time. We know this from other countries, to form North countries, which we often compare with. In Denmark certain units are being transferred within the recruitment process. The Ministry is very large, there may be more than one minister, even two or three of them, and there they can move a little to these tasks according to what is convenient. This may be because of a group of cooperation. This may be because of the expertise of an individual minister or interest. I don't think that's bad. I think it's one of those things that doesn't have to be damaged by stability or professionalism or anything like that. If we were to form a discussion with the Ministry of Presidency, I think in many ways it would be very normal, because we were discussing settlement earlier, that they are the legal case that might be under it; should go into all the Ministry. The same could be said of equality and of other cases that are cross-cut, such cases do not include one service specifically and should be done in many ways. Of course, economics, often supported by the Ministry of Presidency, also include matters that would fit in. Above all, it is the agreement of the government during each terms, key to the development of a powerful professional job and knowledge within the Ministry. It may mean that there is a need to transfer workers into the Board of Directors, and I think it is less than the fact that there is no guarantee that any political policy at any given time will be achieved by a government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u44	President. If I'm supposed to understand the highest. Prime Ministers correct, it is all right to suggest that there is an intervention between large groups of languages and organisations, which usually sit relatively short - lived, from the tone and enthusiasm of the individual minister. I don't think that's a good formality. But I agree with the highest. One prime minister that it is essential that more can be brought to staff and knowledge from the priorities of the classes in terms of terms. I don't find it wrong to compare us with the North countries, and especially with those in the United States, perhaps there is a basis for listening to the words and suggestions or hints made by the Trustees of the Council that laws should be better prepared when they enter the General Assembly and the professional knowledge that will be better replaced by the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u45	President. I appreciate this conversation, and I understand what we're doing. The client agrees that key elements are that of professional knowledge and effectiveness on the part of those who are available and that it is appropriate to move to staff. Hence, one of the changes in the laws of the Council of Government in the past during this ideal period was to prepare the Council for flexibility in order to carry out the task. I think it was a reasonable way. Since this is mentioned in comparison with the Norwegian Parliament, I recall seeing that the debate and changes of primes coming from the European Commission in the North countries are much smaller, much smaller than in this country, which could be interpreted as a better understanding of the bills, but it can also be interpreted as being simply more potent, that more powerful units are in the Council of Control, and because the council is a smaller part of the operation that I don't know is a good. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This is something we need to talk about. But I agree that there are many good role models that we have seen in the North countries that would like to compare us with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u46	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a large case of supreme importance. On Thursday, a minister recommended a change in the law on the Penitentiary of the State's Department of Pension. This is a very large case, of course, that has considerable consequences, such as the Supreme Court. A minister took the lead in his career. In fact, the beginning of this case is attributed to the 2009 fixed covenant, following the collapse of the then government, where the workforce was settled and set down certain goals. One of these goals was agreement and equal rights in a public and public labour market. There were suggestions that led to the harmony of age - related rights practices in the pension system and the age of pension. In the group's proposals were made to include 76% of the average pay and a 40 year allowance. Since then, there have been a good deal of work on these issues, and discussions between the financial and economic organizations have been conducted, and since the association of public employees, i.e. BHM, BSRB and Iceland's Teacher Union, and, of course, between the European Union and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. This case has been associated with the need to coordinate the work market and has been referred to as the SALEK meeting in the non-human environments of either the public labour market or the general public. The plan is to reduce the number of negotiaters involved. It is also suggested that many believe that this is the time to negotiate their purchases and advantages. However, those who have spoken to the official organisation in this case have emphasized that this is an independent step independent of the SALEK Convention, since BHM and KI have not been party to the agreement, whatever the circumstances may be. This, of course, is something that has been discussed, the representatives of all classes have been given an introduction to plans to coordinate the workforce or to create more harmonization. Of course, there are both pros and cons. We've been looking forward to a considerable amount of energy coming into contact with relatively small groups that have then influenced negotiations with other groups, and all of this has caused, as we know during this terms, a great debate in the labour market. We have had to keep track of this ideal period that the current government has repeatedly used legalizations in various professions, which are very unfortunate and not indicating that we are achieving the stability of the work market we need to meet. In turn, the flaw I mentioned here is that we have the Constitution the right people to negotiate their purchases and benefits. I've found it in my travels through the country that this case is burning on very many members of the labor movement. Not everyone agrees on that. I'm going to set it aside and discuss this matter, which is a fundamental change. The result of these discussions is 2009, but discussions have been held since 2011. This agreement was signed for a week. At the same time, we, the presidents of the government of the opposing parties, were presented with the contents of the agreement. It must be said at the moment, and I'm going to say it at the beginning, that it is really a very bad situation to be placed in front of the option that underlying a system modification of a giant system that involves the pension of future generations and the state's state state's status on the commitments of public employees' pensions funds, as well as the commitments of the rural society. We are talking about commitment to over 100 billion. These are system changes that need to be carefully considered how to display and display different groups of people. So it's bad to be set up to the point that now that we're in Congress, we're still at 1st. about this big case. So I'm going to say right away that I think it's a little better if we're not running here to finish this wish, because we're talking about a system change that's going to take effect on January 1, 2017, but we're thinking about the whole future. I don't think anyone is. A senator finds it convenient to take such a stand. I realize that this is true of the entire organization of the people involved. We have also received quite a few letters and comments from those who disagree. I will come to that only later in my speech. But there's no one why. A senator who finds it convenient to take sides in such a system change in a few days. So I would have thought it would be our conclusion after 1st. the case would be sent to a committee. As a matter of fact, I think it should be sent to the court. The Economic and Business Committee is not a financing committee, because according to Congress, a budget of budgetary funds is being handled by a financial and business committee on the matter of pensions. I think of this as a system change, the commitments then appear in the budgets that live on a budget board. I want to say this because the highest. A minister suggested that the case be referred to the legal committee. I'd have considered it normal for a financial and business committee. I'm suggesting that we get together to appoint a panel committee that reviews this case when this council is finished. It would be her job to review the matter until a new assembly meets, and it would then be submitted, even though it would not be until January 1, 2017. I know this isn't a common arrangement, but I was trying to get into this run this morning. When tax changes were made when the local tax system was adopted, it seemed to be so extensive a system change that the interim committee was organized by the then minister of finance, the Þorsteinn of Pálsson's son. I think it would be a way to try to get this thing to normal so that we would have time to look at it, so that we would not be set against a wall to take a stand for changes that we really do not have time to introduce ourselves. I will make this my formal proposal and hope that we can agree on it. There's been some significant changes, as I went over earlier. A basic change in the rightness process is being proposed to make it age - related. This will affect different groups of public workers. It may be that there is sufficient benefit in achieving such harmony so that we are ready to take our stand, even if that means negative changes to someone else. But these are basic factors that we will need to examine accurately. The other is what is not part of the bill itself, but is part of the agreement that is the basis of the bill and that parallel these changes, in which they are actually moving the pension rights of public employees to what happens at the general labour market, which are then rather worse than those at the general market, are in agreement to increase pay in the public labour market over six to ten years and that will be done with certain corrections between classes. To be honest, I understand those who criticize that we are here discussing a certain irreversible system change, but what is contrary to the system change, which is, in fact, the pay raise, so that the public market is in a pair of public markets, is delayed into the future. It is only natural for us here at council, to get a detailed view of how to achieve this correction. If the general labour market is supposed to set the criteria for higher pay rates in the community, then it will have the basis, in order to ensure that this amount of pay has been corrected between the public market and the general market. All we know is that this is supposed to be done in six to ten years. There we would have had to have more solid evidence, maybe there are, I don't know, it's going to be shown by the Committee, how to get this out. Have the different classes been identified? Has this been determined by gender pay, how he plays into this correction? Have we considered how we value comparable classes between different systems of things? These are all major questions that we need time to examine. I'd also like to mention that we can't ignore it, with members of the council here, that we've already got criticism. Although more of the labor movement, or salaries, is behind it, we have received quite a few challenges. I mention quite a lot of challenges from teachers in different elementary schools that have come to us. Socialists who accept the challenges feel that significant changes have been approved without the approval of Iceland's Teacher Association members. In particular, it describes doubts about the real will for remuneration and shows that a dress contract with a primary school teacher has been twofold destroyed, and there has been no evidence of the declared will presented in this agreement. This is coming from basic schools all over the country. We have also received comments from the four companions of the 26 BSRB companions who disagree with this issue. We've received some comments there, e.g. it speaks of how this agreement will appear beyond shift labor classes. Since then, we have received a comment from the Hospital Department on the point referred to in the future, i.e. the pay balance. They criticize that no reference is made to the values presented by the Organization, which show that the pay of the government is about 16% lower than that at the general labour market, but in reality, an agreement is to be made. It is quoted as saying in the agreement that unless people felt that they could rather build work on this basis, they would have to build on better grounds for who they were. This is a suspicion of the head of the hospital. I would like to show respect for the majority of the labor movement, the employee organisation, has been working on. But I'd also like to say that if we senators don't listen to those who make a warning and point out what can be said in this agreement, and in this bill, we don't do our jobs. Mr. President. Unfortunately, my 15 minutes are running out. I haven't started discussing the subject of the bill, I'm still on the side of the issue, which is a shame. Yet, what I have already pointed out shows us that we are to find a way to handle this matter. I will make it my suggestion that an interim committee will be set up to make these changes for the benefit and work of them in these unusual circumstances, where we have elections, so that the matter can be taken care of for material gain. [[The president calls.]] Then I want to make a comment, tops. President. I was expecting the highest. Secretary of finance in the hall, but he's not here yet. I suggest that this discussion be postponed until he is present to hear the criticism presented to his bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u47	President has tried to keep track of the latest. Minister. He was notified, and he responded, and he has entered a house, but a closer position the president cannot give up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u48	He's missing out here on big speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u49	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u50	President. Here we receive such a big matter to the council that it will affect the survival of all the people of the country. It has been reported that the bill was being made a lot over the last few weeks, and it is clear, from what you have heard from the various sources involved in this law, that people do not experience themselves properly informed. And it is serious if you take this bill through the council with these big changes without the public being informed about the nature of the changes and what they mean to both those already in the system and especially to those who will join the system after the law takes effect. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín's Jakobsdóttir Catherine's case that I find completely justified and, in fact, necessary, is setting up an intermediate committee. I will support that suggestion. At the same time, I would like to agree that the case will be referred to a financial committee, but not to the committee that the bill should address as it is, a financial and business committee. At the time of the bill, members of the Parliament received a number of messages from various societies, where they were severely critical. People feel very insecure because they lack all the information about this change, which everyone agrees must do, i.e. to combine the rights of a pensioner, and the exact implementation of a pay raise to meet the appropriates taken off. When the subject was first discussed, it was presented in a case of the highest order. Secretary of finance, or at least the highest possible understanding was made. Minister so, the A Company would also have state responsibility. It seems quite common in this country that when the rights are corrected, they are usually brought down, but those with inferior rights are not brought up. I'm critical of that. Then I'd also like to point out that if we are going to work on this matter between council members, we can have an informed discussion on the subject so that all who need to live with these changes will have the opportunity to get information about it and also give tips. While there is no such commitment, there will be no reconciliation and completely abnormal that we are going to make these major changes through the council in a few days. A lot has been discussed with the issue, so it is important to get it done right away. I would like to get an accurate interpretation of why this case has to be completed tomorrow, instead of making a positive choice in the memory of the section on the headlining committee. If the highest. Secretary of finance wishes that the stability of the state in our society would be the result of this particular bill only if there was widespread peace in the community. Those who have calculated pension rights at the general market in a calculator that can be found at the insurance agency see that there's almost no amount of money paid in pension. The difference between the age-old and those who have paid well to obtain their pension rights and those who receive pensions, who may have been in such a position that they do not have comparable rights, i.e. receive so-called striped pensions, is very small. I think it's very important that we use this opportunity now to balance the rights of those in the public pension fund and of those in the general market, to examine the whole pension system. The Economic and Business Committee has a bill on how to invest your pensions. It has suggested a moral code, and I think it's very good. But I also believe that in the management of the pension fund, which has become enormously large in our society, democratically elected agents are represented. I also think it is very urgent that we bear in mind that the current government, and particularly the Independence Party, has spoken for the U.S. Bank. Not long ago, the result was disastrous. But the vast amount of pensions in our community also means that we need to be careful how we combined funds are used in investments. Many fear that with these changes, the nation's common interests, the collective sum of money, will begin again in delirium. I can't measure it 100% today. So that I can measure it 100% and experience that these coming laws are mature enough and that there is sufficient information in there so that those who have to submit to these laws, both those already in the system and those who are getting new into it -- I can't form a real stand-up on the subject. In particular, I feel uncomfortable having heard the urgency of the procedure. I'm a spokesman for the fact that at the General Assembly, there is professionality in the legal process that takes into consideration the indication. There are often important indications of clean, clean mistakes in the legal process. I witnessed this last morning regarding a law in connection with a dresser's council that had accidentally entered some piece of law that was not supposed to be there, he had been put in for error. When we look at such extensive laws, since these aren't much of a dresser's law, it is quite clear that taking a bill written in urbanity and in reality not to receive proper political treatment because of the short period left by the General Work Programme. The General Assembly is to be packed on Thursday. I call for an act of reconciliation and the way of the smaller section so that this case can be continued. That's what I hope to do. The secretary of finance is ready to do so. If I didn't, I'd like to get some real reason for that. This also requires accurate calculation of exactly what happens when new people enter the system and are missing, as noted earlier, accurate interpretation of how to increase the pay. We who live in this country have often come to realize that many beautiful things are promised, but if they are not, they usually don't. This is especially true when the rights are being restricted. Why would anyone agree to something like that if there's no guarantee that it will cause those in the public system to get what is promised and what is not implemented? It is one thing to say that the pay will go up - and I have even seen sentences such as the likes of a target to show that they are going to be there. That's not a plan. Plan is accurate workout. We've seen an enormous struggle in Iceland, and many of us are hurting after law has been given to strike. Therefore, without reconciliation, I feel that those who have to live by the law can be informed about the matter quickly through the council. I challenge those who want to continue with a case that actually began with the last government, that those who wish to continue on this journey would meet the suggestions of the memory of the committee. It's clear everyone wants to change these systems. There's nothing to be afraid of. Why the rush? This has not been clear enough. How beneficial, then, that would be! The secretary of finance, when he closes the case below, offers a proposal for the head of the Parliament's gang or explains exactly why a case involving the survival of all those living in this country has earned and will earn a pension right, through the council, without the state revealing the approval of those who need to live with it. I believe it is very important that we are already on the move to hold meetings with members of these unions. To be honest, I was rather surprised at how closed the process was. I think it's unnatural, and really it's not decent for the unions. You've heard a lot of friends in these unions who are very uncertain. Although it seems that the rights of those already in the system will not be impaired, I have not seen calculation of how it really will be for each person or for each group and how it will affect their survival, whether it involves pension or pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, Birgitta Jónsdóttir. It was introduced and clearly explained the magnitude and extent of this matter. I think we all agree that this is a big deal because it's about people's pension rights. Hv. In his talk, a senator linked only to the social security system, the part of which turns toward pensioners who get paid from that system. There is also a General bill to legalize the changes to the social security system, but in my opinion, it's a big overlap. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in charge of it, who spoke of a system change. There is now a system modification in two different systems that go to two different committees. I think it's a bit scary to do so because each system can have unexpected consequences. I'm asking if there's no special reason to go over this even further and look into these issues in context so that we're not exposed to the system changes in two places without knowing where the interaction is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u52	President. Thank you so much for this inquiry. I agree completely with what. Senator. I'm sorry to understand how it is that we're always taking in issues that are completely integrated separately. It's clear with your social security that it's a system change. At the same time, it is recognized that the social security system is so complex that whenever there are changes, some fall between ships and docks. Always. For some reason, it often takes time to be corrected for those who have fallen for unacceptable living, for these are very often the most vulnerable groups not to have to live forever stirring up their rights without having to find any access to it or trying to find solutions. I would have wanted us to take both the Social Security and the Pension Fund on the Intercommittee Committee and to consider these issues in context. It's very strange, for example, that in the social security bill it's said that retirement year starts when you're 70 years old, but in this bill secretary of finance it's 67 years old. Not that public employees have often been able to start retirement when they are between 60 and 70 years of age, with a median being expected 65, as mentioned. If you take them earlier, the income is probably lower, but I find it hard to believe that it is the accepted practice that different lawsuits are not taken in a proper perspective.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think this idea and, in fact, the formal proposal that has been made that this matter goes to the head of the committee is very important and that it too is urgent, as it were. A senator said that the committee would review this whole thing. Added to this, the third committee is discussing a aspect of pension. Hv. The Economic and Business Committee is also involved in matters related to a special pension savings system, which, of course, is part of the global system of pension. In effect, when we have everything, the film is even more complex. I'd also like to ask why. A senator's attention was to be given to more emphasis than a member of the Parliament's Committee. These changes have been explained as likely to be different between the sexes and the generations as well. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me that there is yet another reason why we must take time to examine this matter? Because these matters take away so much and in different directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u54	President. I totally agree with what. A senator informs that it is necessary to take these languages together systemically. Now two cases are subject to the pension rights of the Economic and Business Committee, one very large case on the welfare board, and now this on the budget board. It is impossible in these days that when the council is completely out of control at the end of the council, it is impossible to make an informed decision. I don't like the idea of changing the law as if it didn't affect real people. It's just not okay. I hear a lot of people who live in difficult terms, and that's very uncertain. It lives under constant anxiety because it seems that those with the Excel documents don't figure out that there are people who have to live with the consequences of words approved here at council. We don't just need an intermediate committee on this matter, we need to get involved in a community discussion and talk with those who need to live by the laws adopted at the General Assembly on the changes that are imminent. It is also clear that the matter of a welfare committee should not follow any money. Those with absolutely striped compensations are to be forgotten once again. This is disturbing, since there was no trouble finding money in budgets or funding to raise the pay of the top public song. At the same time, there does not seem to be money to help and support those to whom we should help and support and live in the most dire terms in the social security system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u55	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the law on the Penitentiary of the Government's Pension Fund. Some who have addressed the preceding discussion have given me a fine consideration of the existence of this bill. I have heard of the discussion that there is really no disagreement about making changes in the pension system. Rather, the debate is primarily about the speed of this matter, that it should be run through on the final days of the council without a time for the members of the Senate who will be left at the end of 1st. moves the matter into their own hands to dig into the matter, to send it out to those concerned, and then to arrange for visitors to discuss the matter. As has been traced, this is a huge business, an enormous interest in people, for it is about the survival of people when they have completed their working hours in a job market, and they focus on the income they have to support themselves in later years. Although some of their unions have been agreed with them, it is evident that the general members of this class are not in agreement with the bill. During the last few days, members of the Parliament have been e - mailed to comment on various societies to form various teachers in different basic schools of the country, sending us their conclusions. I believe that alone is an excellent reason not to rush this work too quickly and certainly not to run the case through and plan to finish it during the Senate's final days, but according to the Council's strategy, there are only three days left. They realize that they cannot be sent out for reviews or visitors. In my opinion, there is one reason why we should wait for a new assembly after the election. I think because of the desire to lead the way this case has been, it's safe and it's just for good that it's gonna get some time. Another reason why I believe it's right to go to the ground is to go down gently. The welfare committee is now running a bill on the change in social security law, where there is also a system modification of pensions, while on the social security network. I was disappointed when I read the SIRR bill and the follow-up documents, as it seems that nothing was taken into account or taken into account in the bill on changing social security laws. Of course, these two systems overlap because, fortunately, most pensioners have their own rights in pension funds, but some also get pay from the social security system. Changes in another site or in another system can therefore affect the other system. Therefore, the context needs my attention. As noted, the third matter is also presented to people's pension rights on that subject. The Economic and Business Committee to discuss changes in the specialisation system. Together, these three systems of conduct make things more serious and more important today may not be the ones we will discuss at the General Assembly. It is difficult to find something that directly deals with people, but the money and income that people have for a purpose and to live their lives. This, of course, requires that we consider the context. I'm worried about it as I said that a system change in one place can lead to a change in another system and because these are often complex systems that depend on them, the effect of change may be unpredictable. So I think a lot of thought about whether it's over my head if it's wise to go into multisystem changes at the same time, because it's harder to control different variables and see what's really going to happen when all of this is going to happen, not to be talked about when there's no attempt to distinguish this effect in a context. So I take to heart the suggestion that an intermediate committee will be organized and taken into account, considering these issues and evaluating whether it is wise to take care of all these changes at the same time as after events to determine where to take special care of the earth and what particular attention is needed. You see, I don't think it's a question that the changes being made to both the pension system and the pension money in the social security system will have a different impact on different community groups. The bill on changing the law on the Pension Department of Pension Services here suggests that people's pension age will be raised from 65 years to 67 years. However, the bill on the change in social security law is suggested to increase pension age in this system from 67 years up to 70 in stages, though, over a long time. The interaction between these two changes is one of the factors to be considered. We members of the Parliament have received e - mail from the head of the Iceland Medical Association, where it is noted that because of their hard work, the medical staff will not be able to work until 67 years of age, so they will have to continue to enter the pension of 65 years. Because there is expected to be an increase in flexibility at least when it comes to the social security system, this could be possible, but the consequences of going to a pension earlier would be reduced permanently. As a result, those who have worked all the years at the hospital's salary, which I think most of us can agree that they are not contained, have to because of the physical difficulty in starting pension sooner and thus live on with a low income for forwardation. It is quite possible, and it is admitted that changing people's pension age will result in the growth of disability pensioners. The situation is that the incidence of disability is at the highest among women who have often worked for the State during difficult and brittle jobs, but not on any particular amount of money. There are major women's classes, such as teachers, nurses, and medical staff I came to see earlier. Of course, this is one major factor in what needs to be considered, and we generals are under obligation to do a great deal of work on how this will come out, and it is so clear that the interaction between the two systems is absolutely important and that my other evidence is that we are to make time, that is, in effect, an intermediate committee. [[The president calls.]] Like I've crossed over and more dogs. In their talks, members of the Parliament have a wide range of subjects that such a committee would need to consider. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u56	V.E.G. President. Still nothing has happened here, has not been drawn up in regard to government priorities, and since then the odd situation is that the committees are working hard to work on important issues, but we do not know what matters to put first. Senators who responded to the council program have made a commitment to various projects related to elections. For example, there is a large organisation that has requested members of Congress for a meeting for an election. Now we have a real problem, for we senators want to fulfill our duties at the council, our primary obligation. At the same time, however, it is a little strange to refuse to participate in democratic discussions involving elections. I request that we be removed from this dilemma and that the council be organized.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u57	A respectable president. I understand that the president who sat on the President of the United States earlier today is not pleased when we senators suggest that we at times feel that he is not the president of all members of the council but is on the greater scale. I don't want to say it, though. I feel that the President of the Parliament is trying to make a mistake in this place here and the work we're doing. The point is, the President is out of control with the government, and it is out of control. It is not up to her to complete a matter of Congress here, to decide what subjects she wants to get through. It's strange that the government thinks that every week the council can solve a complete system change in the head of state staff's Pension Fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u58	A respectable president. I'm disappointed that the president's investigation was not to be subtracted, given considerable encouragement here earlier today, that I don't say my urgentness, in the fact that we stand with the General when we see that the government is really getting very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very much up. There is no control and no control and no priorities, it seems that people just don't talk within the government itself. Now it's time for every news story to become a subject of who talks to and who stands by each person, etc. We are in a position to keep the council out of these conflicts, we can treat the council with respect and dignity, the honor that the council deserves. I'd like to make a decision to the President that he would no longer ask what the executives want when the Commission has no longer wanted to do because of the crisis they're in, and make a very successful program with members of the council, and this is a proper assembly on Thursday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u59	President. Unfortunately, it seems that the government is in some ABBA game at the same time. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. I sense that this government has come forward. Here we are talking about one of the biggest cases that have been held in the General Assembly for a few days and that's one of the head of the board, one of the council members, one of the Parliament, from the forward party. Where's the bottom line? Secretary of finance? Will he not participate in these discussions? I was aiming, for example. To him many questions in my talk earlier, but he sat and stopped at a side room and was not listening. This is the respect of the Executive Director for the General, Mr. President. The time has come for the president to show that he is indeed the president of the entire council, not on the floor for the execution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u60	V.E.G. President. Wait for Godot is a line that comes to mind. We're here, the government's situation, we've been waiting for weeks, and actually, from spring to spring for the government's priorities on the subjects to be completed before election. No such conversation with the government, we've even begun to question whether there is a government in this country. Well, that's at least A government that has no idea what it wants and not the courage to meet the challenge of completing its terms. Now there's a gang of movers. This is where the head of the party couldn't talk last night because there's so much inunification. Shouldn't we, chief? Mr. President, interrupting Congress, allowing the advance team to settle their affairs, and they may give us a practical program in which we in one or two days can complete this play. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u61	Mr. President. The Senate has been doing amazingly well both in spring and in summer, and now after its arrival after a summer break. This has been the case with large, important, often and often complex cases of compromise, conflicting views, and outcome. That's what we've done here at the council. However, now that there are only three days left, or rather two and a half, of the Generals Work Programme. A government to put their priorities in order to tell what it stresses to complete. You see, it has not been true of us, ordinary members of Congress, to go to the right, but now the spear stands at the highest. Government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u62	President. I'm totally offended. Yesterday, the president at a council meeting at the highest level. The prime minister will contact the anti - generals. What happens next? Nothing. He'll call one and one, and it's time for the next day. The end of the council is on Thursday, and the last thing I heard from him earlier was that we might have a possible meeting after he spoke to the chairman of the government. I don't think it's acceptable, I'm just completely and completely offended, Mr. President. I am offended by the council, I am offended that here are members of the government opposition who keep the council going day by day because the majority of the government members - they're alone in the hall right now - are only in their own election. [[The president calls.]] It's unannounced. Where's your pass order for business?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u63	A respectable president. It is very simple and self - determination that we know the issues that a respectable president intends to set up for his next session. I'd just like to mention that, earlier today, at the end of the conference board, a respected president spoke about the program today. It's not about today's program, it's about tomorrow's program, it's about the schedule, it's about the next week. It all looks that way, and actually it's easy to see that a work plan is no longer working. Then it is time to face it and act on it. I don't quite see why we should continue here until we clear out the priorities of a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u64	A respectable president. It is imperative that there be a time soon when the government's affairs will be settled. On the other hand, I want to come to the highest. The prime minister to defend himself when it comes to the fact that he has betrayed the promise to speak to the directors of a ruling body. I am confident that he spoke to the chairman of the Continental Party, the chairman of the Agency, and that this is the very problem, that it is not a single concern between the future president and the prime minister of what to do, and therefore this is an example of absolute failure and failure of the government, the inability of the government to rule the country. It's sad to see, but it's only a government problem. We can stand here and talk about it, and we will, but it is also quite clear that a government that wants to rule the country must bring some priority on time. She's dropping on time, her work schedule is over at the end of this week, and then it's not time for any election to be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u65	Mr. President. I must agree with them. Today, members of the council who have spoken in this regard to the development of a work plan have been in existence for quite some time. All have been aware of the date of the completion of the council. The extended work programme was taken up by the highest level. A president who is expected to have made it in agreement with the majority of the members of the government. I have to say that it surprises me to think that this council has been successful since the beginning of a council in mid - August, and it has been very busy with everything, and I'm just completely incomprehensible why the last few days have not yet been set up in a work programme. Unfortunately, it seems to me it is the will of the greater part to take matters into question, whatever possible purpose the greater part might have with it, i.e. to keep everyone in as much uncertainty as possible about how to complete Congress, thus preventing us from being able to complete this council in a decent way to all of us, whom I thought should be an ambitious subject for all of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u66	A respectable president. I don't know if I'm supposed to say so, but, unfortunately, there's never been a political agreement between political parties to set a council here that prevents such events as this. Then it is the only way for us senators to bring it to the attention of the president and to describe our protests to the work done at the council. The government is a passenger, but it must be realized, these fine men who are in charge of the government, that it is her job to bring this council to its end. We are ready to talk to them if they will show us the respect of talking to us. We're supposed to finish here, not tomorrow, but the other, as the kids say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u67	Mr. President. You see, the Generals Work Programme expects us to complete, not tomorrow, but the other. V.E.G. The president has repeatedly introduced it, to form at our council hearings, how well the council worked, and to handle matters well. That's why I think that's why. Now the president will have to stand with his well - worked council and put it on the highest level. A government to present what subjects it puts emphasis on so that as we show up here at work and work we know who's the focus, what's to be done, and that we can do it on Thursday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u68	A respectable president. Today is September 27, and according to President's work plan, not the Prime Minister's Work Programme, not the PUB program, not the Supreme Work Programme. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs Bjarni Benediktsson, but the Work Programme for the President of the Generals, will complete the Senate on Thursday. That's the way it is. Nothing has happened to change that position. The situation is that we finish the issues that are directly important because of dates. They're very few, maybe two or three. We're going to finish a case that's completely settled from committees. We can do it, but that's all we're supposed to do. In view of the time, according to a work plan, in view of the political agency that is running out of reality, we can only complete less than ten cases at the time of the policy. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u69	A respectable president. All I have to do is come up here and declare my disappointments about the way Congress has been done for the past few weeks and months, so to speak. The government situation has worked hard to be reasonable, we've done everything we can to face the government, and all we're asking for is a list to finish. Is it a respectable president that the government is not allowed to complete any case? Is it the order of the president that perhaps a plan will not be extended but that the council will only hang on Thursday with a bunch of unsolved cases? I don't see how anyone can complete anything if we don't try to meet in the middle. It's just a fact, and we have to face the fact that there's Congress in this country that means respect for a body of Congress. I think everyone is ready to hang out here until October 28th, if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u70	A respectable president. I would also like to mention that since no one else has mentioned that we are entering elections in a month, and it is important for democracy in the country and for the voters of the country that there is time for politicians to learn about themselves and their affairs and at least they know what time they will have and whether they will have time to do it. It is not fair to council members of the greater part, nor to the lower part, to be confused. It's not fair to voters either. It's not a selfish reason, it's really important for politicians to have space, anyway, that they know if they will have room to learn about themselves and their affairs in the coming elections. I call attention to the fact that I'm not a candidate myself, so it's not my interests as a senator I'm thinking of, but my interests as a voter. The voters have the right to show respect for a respectable president more than this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u71	A respectable president. I'm glad that this case has been presented and that it has been managed to fit into a donation suit. I must admit, though, that I am deeply disappointed in the lateness of that statement. It is possible that we could jeopardize it before the election. This is a matter that we have spent many years breast-feeding because it includes fully harmonisation of public and public rights to the extent that the rights are not in agreement but to the extent that the system is sustainable. The changes in the biofuel system since 1997, when the A department was established, have given much of the opportunity, but it has become that way, because in the system as it is now, there is no age-related development, that a limp has developed in the A department that has already become significant and is increasing. With the 1997 system, the old system, which is now in the B department of the fund, was decommissioned, and that system already has a tilt of nearly 500 billion dollars. It is incredibly important, and we need to be able to look to the experiences of our neighboring countries of dealing with financial problems, that we have a sustainable pension system, based on recycling and possessions, in view of the changes in the ages of countries in the Western world, where the number of people who retire and decrease in younger generations is increasing. Our system in pension funds is envyable and, frankly, exemplary in many lands and is a huge fluctuation in economic events and has just been successfully successful in a financial collapse. It's quite amazing that if there wasn't a securable increase in rights, as a result of an increased inflation in the collapse, the loss of the entire pension system in Iceland was of a complete financial collapse within 10%, which is a rather amazing history of the endurance of this system to cope with tragedy and to be an equation in society. Then there is endless reflection on further changes in the pension system and reviews of it, the number of pensions, theirs, etc. I now feel that the rights of the next step, after we have agreed to these changes here, and thereby establish the only right operating system for the public market as well as the private market, and the most logical way of uniting the pension system would be that we would change it so that all who would start working tomorrow would pay for a new pension fund. So it would be for the next 20 years, it would be closed, and then a new pension fund would be opened to which everyone who went into a job market would pay for 10 years and so on, so that we would always have five or seven funds, which, as a result, had a very different investment policy. If there's some weakness in the pension system today, he's aware that if one cow pisses, it's going to be all going to be a problem. If one pension fund jumps on investment options, all of them will come, and if one rejects an investment option, they will all be willing to reject it. It might be very desirable for investment investment schemes to have different funds with a different risk test, since the funds with older partners would be more careful in investments than those with younger partners could take greater risks in their investments. When it comes to complicated issues like this, it takes a long time. This case has been handled since collapse, trying to find solutions that could lead to harmonization of the rights and end the A-circuitation. The conclusion is now made, and there are many things that will help. It's money we're getting out of contracts with demands that create oil to keep this case going because the state has all of a sudden money to put in there to close its tilt. It is a very reasonable conclusion, then, that the battles will not continue. I hear concern from a government worker's study of whether or not they are throwing aside rights to unclear benefits. In the labour market agreements, public employees are expected to be involved in a public labour market. It has not previously been in such clear terms as the basis for the overall labour agreement on the general market. I think it is rather appropriate to go to the level of the pay of public employees and to have a competitive approach to the general market, so that it will make it easier for people to go between public and general markets across employees rather than try to make some sort of impulse with a pensional yellowing root or with a yellowing root that involves better pensions on the public market. The cost that no one eventually knows in advance is very difficult to plan, and it's very disagreeable. I simply think that we need to watch it, too, that the opportunity to change is now because we have money that can be put into this that needs to come to a farm and that it is very important that we can be used not to do the thawing at this point; the best way is to put the money in the pensions. It's also important to remember that I don't think there's any future in it for public employees to continue doing rights that are really academic rather than real. I think it is better to negotiate a solution and a remuneration for rights than to continue sliding on the pension fund, for in the end the time will come, if the state is faced with hundreds of billions more than there are now, that the project simply grows over our heads and that the rights that the public employees have thought might become empty or not real once it is created, because society simply does not live up to them. So I think that all things are measured by continuing to do this way. I would like to commend public employees for their courage and to have followed this course as well as to the labour market for wanting to follow a new route. I think it was important for all of us to create a healthy and better foundation for future debates and that there will be a better agreement between the public markets and the public. It is also particularly important to take care of this now, not just because of the government's contribution - and it's money that doesn't grow on trees, let's put it that way; a figure of nearly 100 billion that stays available is something that doesn't grow on the trees, and we can't walk that way by year or two. The other reason why it is wise to do this now is that, of course, everything is from general economic development in society, indicating that in the years ahead of a very high pay load in the general market. How important it is, then, that public employees be immediately involved. A respectable president. It's odd to stand here in a talk chair as a diplomat and find little vice in the language you are discussing. But as I said in the beginning, the vice is that I know that the matter came in late. I am worried that there will be no opportunity to get it through carefully here at the council. I think that we all have the responsibility to make sure that this matter does not prevail, as is no other matter. This is a matter of great national interest to be caught. It is a very dangerous thing for us to continue deliberately with a sliding operation on a public pension fund system, it will never turn out well. Therefore, I encourage all of us to approach a reasonable and forgiving assignment in order to find a successful way for this matter during the few remaining days of the council's work period.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He was told that he would support this matter, or so seemed to be, at least, that was the understanding I received from my speech, and that if I understood it correctly, he would do well. I have to say that there is one thing about what's rather strange to me, and I would love to get an opinion. A senator of that, i.e. what is happening to the changes. Of course, there is always this kind of launching, or usually in prime places, that many things are added and taken out, and sometimes word changes are made, etc. But in this bill, an entire chapter is taken out, see, I II. Chapter 3, according to point 3. The bill. When I put it in a comparative document, which can be convenient for checking the laws before and after the change, it falls out there on four and a half pages, which I think are a little much on one board, but sometimes just as needed, just to rip out a section or two of legislation, you get it. But then there's a lot of preliminary rules, I think one two pages or so. I wondered, " Is this really the mark of a law that is well designed for the future? ' Or is it not the goal of the bill to provide for all future problems? Is this some kind of stone along the way for a journey, or something like that? I wondered because when we tried to legalize, we don't expect the legislation or the rights of people to be largely on temporary regulations, or at least I would have thought it wasn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u73	A respectable president. Now I haven't read the law on the State Pension Fund for a long time, but I have no grounds to make comments on the setting of a bill or analysis structure. I think the material is more important and assume that the lawyers it has written have done their job well. I've seen nothing else at the Ministry of finance, but I've done my job well. The key point is that these are not very large or extensive changes. It's mainly due to the development of age-related rights practices in the A League. Once the system was established in 1997, a wide range of changes were made to move it toward the standard work programme, as is normally achieved in the general labour market. It is then very important that there is increasing rights, but not reducing them to what they were in the general labour market, with the goal of the pension rights becoming 76% of the average pay. That's what I think is the most important thing in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u74	A respectable president. I have every respect for the fact that if you do, of course, you don't see it in the bill itself, so I have a clear understanding of it. Another thing I'm wondering a bit, maybe about the latter part of what I'm considering, i.e. whether this is really a matter that is part of some longer journey. Of course, these amountless amounts of money, quite extraordinary. In fact, I have never seen such sums during this terms, and I do not reduce the problem, but I suppose, as one report shows, that these are huge amounts of money that must be put out of need. I wondered what the effect would have to be on the matter, e.g. The next assembly - actually, I'm not suggesting that this go to the headlining committee, that's probably some plan that doesn't work for all things, maybe not all of this - but I think it's a huge amount. We're here on the last days of the council, and I think it's a little weird to settle the matter right now. However, I feel that this must be important, and I wondered, " What effect does postponing the case have on this case or whether there is a ticking time bomb in this case that I have not yet seen? ' But the report says, with permission from the President: It is obvious that if the bill is legalized, measures must be taken to contribute large amounts of money, close to 100 billion dollars, which has not been expected in current budgets, That's a huge amount of money. This must really matter. There must be a good reason why we are going on this journey now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u75	A respectable president. Of course, it's my concern, as I traced it, that it is so late in here and that it is not working time to get this national language through properly. I understand the danger of not being delivered right now. It's obviously the danger that this is expected, like a whale. A senator said, about 100 billion dollars into the A department of today's money. We're going into a campaign, and now it's just happened that there are 100 billion people in one campaign, even 300 billion, as it was famous for the last campaign. I don't necessarily like to know this money in ways that are inexplicable. I see the advantage of turning this money in right now, before the election. Of course, money is just a result of the struggle. If we don't do this now and postpone the case, we'll be more inclined and we'll need it, maybe having this money at later levels, paying more money in there. I don't see the exact amount of money, about 100 billion, where to get that money if not through such a unique accident as we've just been going through deal with foreign demands. I think it's the worst result of all. Whether it is vital to be delivered at this assembly or to be found any means to be resolved during a new assembly, I do not intend to claim now, but it is very important to bring the matter into the future after the agreement is finally reached with all the larger organizations, and we do so well to have money that has never been possible or ever been available to create as oil for an agreement in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u76	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years before his speech, the aged son of Athenians is able to say things that were presented there. I think we all agree on the importance of our pension system being self-sustained and we're all agreed that the knots need to be cared for because it's such a very important case. I found the idea interesting to me. A senator stated that everyone should pay in the same fund for ten years, then close it, and start a new fund that would be paid for. I just have to admit that I've never heard that idea before, so it was totally new to me. I found this interesting and wanted to ask you why. A senator's details. Is this his idea or are there some kind of model for this? I don't intend to evaluate now whether I like the idea or not, but at least I thought it was interesting. To me, she's got newbies. On the other hand, I'd like to ask. A senator in his statement that the opportunity now is to change and solve the few remaining days of work, just because we have 100 billion available right now. But is there not also evidence that much work is needed on the council when it comes to this case because it is such a huge amount of money, these are so important to people? [[The president calls.]] Are we not in a very difficult situation just because of the scope of the issue and the short time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u77	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. First about the second question. Of course, we are in a difficult situation because of the lack of time to work. However, there has been a formal treatment in the field of the unions, in particular, in the state, and in the general market for five years and longer informal. The bill is a valid agreement made with the entire organization. I believe and believe that I always trust the leading labor movement. I never think that I know better than that labor movement when it comes to the interests of its clients. Therefore, I don't see any danger in the case because of its consequences. Of course, if this were a standard bill that came from the Council of Government that was not related to stakeholders, it would be a completely different matter. Then there's a change in the pension system. I don't know what the pension system is in other countries in order to know where this is exactly the model of this kind, but I think that people have different pensions according to their age and different lifestyles according to their peers' age. This idea may be a way to fix the need for this flexibility to the Icelandic system. The common tribe once fought for one pension fund for all the people of the country. At that time, a legal system was being taken care of for the entire population. But it's obviously bad to have one pension fund, because then there's only one man or few men who can control all the investments of the whole pension system. So it is very important to have certain diversity. Also, overindulging in pension funds can go to extremes when dozens of dollars have become divided and, as a result, are far too many and too small to have some expertise in investment policy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u78	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I believe that we, who are active at this moment in politics, whether here in the scene of II or elsewhere, in employment, in pension funds, or elsewhere, will find the only right way or solution that will do the whole future. Of course, even though we need to be deeply interested in the future, this must be the sort of case that always comes up with some discussion and, of course, consider changes in society, including the dating of a nation and other such. I liked what was going on. A senator coming with other approaches and another view of this matter, at least for me. Back to these few remaining council days and this big case. Like a snooze. A senator was so fine in his speech, and in opposition to it, this matter has been in operation for quite some time. It is true that an agreement was reached with the labor movement on the subject. But now it's as if we senators are delivering mails and letters from various associates at the root of these same labor movements, which have questions and express doubts. Is that not also something we need to consider? [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is what is usually done in the work of a Senate committee when discussing a matter. [[The president calls.]] Again, we do not find ourselves facing challenges to our work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u79	A respectable president. Of course, it is perfectly normal to try to find a way to give them an opportunity to express themselves who disagree with this agreement. Of course, it is the commission to set aside space for that matter. If the matter cannot be settled before the end of the council now, the matter will naturally not be resolved. But I wondered if it's possible. It also requires that we be resolved to do so. The problem I see with the comments I've seen from the individual groups of public employees who don't agree with the agreement is that I'm not a suggestion for another solution. What's the alternative? Not to accept the money now available because it comes from demands and continues in the race, confident that some $100 billion will always be done. In the box of state where men are at any given time ready to enter a hole in order to maintain a difference in pension rates? I can't see the choice if we're on the other side of the belief that the pension rights are to be harmonized, and I'm deeply attached to that view. I fought like a lion against the system of privileges that were held here for senators and ministers when I entered the General Assembly, and in a similar way I have wanted to secure people in a public labour market comparable to those in public service. If we think it's important, this is the way. Like whenever men make deals, there are some who want to go further. I always feel and have as a slave always endeavoring to be behind the front trade unions, shouldering responsibility for the options they face and valuing the overall interests of the union. I intend to do so in this matter, as well as to reiterate my commendations to the leading unions of public employees who have been doing so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u80	A respectable president. I hadn't long since assumed that the work plan was basically going to stay. It is clear that this is not the case, and we do not have any answers about how people plan to set priorities. And based on experience, it doesn't mean we'll be here in the middle of the next week or so. I have to assume that we're going to be here much longer, and actually, I'm going to be so pessimistic as to imagine that here we're going to be here, because I'm totally out of my mind about how the Senate might take its time. Then I'll speak from my experience in this terms. But if the council continues, I'd like to know, because I'd like to start preparing more council cases to contribute at the time we have. I would like to answer that question as to whether a respectable president knows anything more about the proposed priorities of the government in his affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u81	President. I declare my disappointments with a pessimism. Senator Hrafn Höfánns Gunnarsson that here will not be wise enough for this nonsense. It is clear that if the council is to last for one or two more weeks, there will be no career peace here. It's just today's afternoon. Yesterday we were promised at a council meeting that the heads of the government groups would be contacted and that there would be something going on today about how the council could be completed on Thursday. The matter is, the experienced Speaker must make known to the heads of the government groups and make it understandable to them that it is their duty to show how they are going to complete this council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u82	Madam President. It is beginning to drop into the government opposition, and it is not unusual when we think that this morning a new government - approved program to September 29 was announced. It is not acceptable, it has not even been formally discussed with the anti - anti - held parties and members of the council. There is also reason to wonder whether such a meeting is planned. I asked this morning if members of the council were going to sit down and try to find some surface on this matter. There was no answer. It's not good for society, it's not good for the council, and it's not good for the government to be here with a huge case and to think that they can be trampled through the council in a short time. There's no doubt about it. I'd like to say that if the current executives were in a position for the last term, the sound would be slightly higher than it's been here both in spring and now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u83	V.E.G. President. I come up here to continue with a suggestion from the beginning. Svavarsdóttir Of course, when we are in such a time crisis, we cannot handle anything but the most necessary dates today. My suggestion is that the conference office will gather with the president the matters necessary, possibly, may have to be settled by dates - I'm not sure they're heads here at the council - cross them and then arrange to meet with members of the council for that conclusion. It should be possible here for dinner break, now it's not such a job to go through it, and then there's a deal on how we're going to do it. In the remaining two days of the council, we must be able to do so. It would be a fine thing for us to do, and that would make the president also a rescuer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u84	Madam President. Even if after some time the Senate business has ceased to surprise you, I must say that the prospect of the future was imminent. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son made it clear that we will stand right here until the election, naturally in no way acceptable to us, or to the respect of the council that has worked faithfully since spring. So I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the Ingadóttir of Ingga that we follow the Svavarsdóttir's motion to get a clean date and that they should be finished by Thursday. I'd like to finally direct it to the highest. President, ask him, is it the highest? Mr President now meeting with members of Parliament to see how this council can be completed for some reason? I think we have an appointment to find out if there's anything going on in that situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u85	The president would like to state that he has not received any information, but information is probably available.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u86	A respectable president. I want to pray to the highest. The president is about to find out what conversations are best. The prime minister of the advance party goes by, the chairman of the anti - anti - general class he is obviously speaking to these days, since he is not speaking to the officers of the others. But let us hope that 24 hours will do the best we can. The prime minister to contact the candidate of the forward party for men can try to block the end of this council. What's drawing up here is a pathetic picture of a government that can't handle its role. It is sad to see a prime minister who cannot present himself here with a Senate list at the end of a council. The answer is as simple as one: The Work Programme will be completed on Thursday, after which there will be no problem here unless it is agreed specifically, and that is to a maximum of one or two issues of national need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u87	President. I would like to agree with what has been suggested here that we stop these discussions until the government agrees on any matter they would like to take care of. Then I don't like what I'm calling - it was almost rude. A social minister showed the council today when she called out: Yes, just finishing all matters. It is natural to have some respect for people and to be careful how you act. Even if you're the best. A minister is to be polite, not arrogant. A respectable president. I would like to make it my suggestion to try to get the government leaders together and see if they can't get out of it how they have planned to try to close this council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u88	A respectable president. I've only got to deal with what two men have. Councilmen have mentioned and called a dark vision, the ones I mentioned earlier. It is, indeed, dark; it is unsurpassed. I agree with that, and I'm very supportive of a suggestion. paritaprevir The Swavards, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, that others here have given support to, is rather self - righteous. Despite the dark prospect of the future, it is only my experience that it pays to be pessimistic when it comes to the Council's program, when it comes to the Council's work programme. It's been an exception, rather than a rule, so I can't say I'm amazed. Of course, it's unannounced now, but you stop at some point to be surprised. If we have more time to contribute to Congress, I feel that it is important for us to know this because there are a number of subjects I still want to contribute but had not imagined that I would have time to do so. If I have time, I want to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u89	Madam President. You might say you're supposed to take on this ridiculous position with your sense of humor, that it's really a month to vote, and that the government of Iceland is in such tightness that they don't trust in setting their own priorities. And those who are most responsible for the Senate work are the lesser part, which, of course, can in no way show respect for a government that has screwed up all its affairs, as well as the fact that she has taken everything down when her leading officers hid their money in taxes. This isn't a joke, Madam President. This is the situation that exists at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I request that Mrs. President agree with the suggestions of our senators, who are here in the hall, and review the issues that will be more important in the days ahead. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u90	A respectable president. Of course, it's very strange to discuss this case, which is the 2nd part of this conference, a bill for changing the law on the change in the A- Department of Pension Services. The case naturally comes all too late, as we've talked about here, since it was given up to the highest level. The government would get four full years to handle matters when the bill was made. Then the government voluntarily made the decision to make a campaign out of various scandals, so now we have much less time to talk about this, to work on it than it was. The mechanism has passed. Councilmen and the bill's report that the matter has been in progress for a long time, some even wanting to go so far as to say for decades. It doesn't matter that way because this and all others have to go through a certain political process. Because it takes so long to agree, I feel that the council should honor the case because here we are talking about people's future. That's where we're creating a law on my future more and less. The matter is not undisputed, and I think it is the duty of the council to listen to those who encourage the matter to be accepted, and also to listen to criticism. I know some unions, e.g. Iceland's Teacher Union and others have expressed their doubts about these changes. I received a message from the Iceland Medical Association that members of the community weren't quite satisfied with the situation. In particular, there are two classes of care, the teachers'class, and the members of the body that call attention to the fact that these classes are not being cared for by the change. It's amazing, but it's true, women's classes and underpayers. So I think that while the goal of change is in itself good, and while I agree with the goal of balanceing people's pension rights between the public sector and the private sector, this is something we need to consider. I think you understand why we want the case properly treated. Then we're talking about a two-week notice, and getting guests and I don't know what or what. It's just that we need time. I can't quite tell how to get to the top. The secretary of finance can expect us to take the case through on those two and a half days that remains of this council to go through all of this. I'm sorry. With regard to the subject of the bill, I have to say, I'm very into terms. I'm in favor of the goal of equalizing my options. But it is my natural job to examine everything that comes from the government. There's obviously some agreement here that seems nice, but it turns out there may be other aspects of the case that I haven't been allowed to see so far. A general political process that would oversee the matter is, of course, a prerequisite for the matter to go through. It's a little off, and that's why I'm talking about a political process, that on page. 14 In the bill the following is expected, by permission of the President: It is obvious that if this bill is legalized, measures must be taken to place the LSR on a large budget, close to 100 billion dollars, which has not been expected in current budgets, and that there would have to be access to it in budgets for 2016.◯ I thought it was all good, if we were gonna drive it through in two weeks, it probably would have to happen like this. But then I began to look at the 2016 allowances and to see that it appears on page 20. 20 That it is assumed that 83.5 billion will be paid in 2016. Because of the mono-changement of the R-I-S-T. I think it's a little strange. These are natural primes, combined at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, submitted by the same highest degree. Minister and so forth. I'd rather this came into the budgets of the second or the ones that the next government will submit, let the bill go through. I think it's a little strange that already in the bill of a change in the Department of Penitentiary that it's coming into the 2016 budget. I'll put a question mark on it because this shows certain plans that are not time to live unless, of course, we're going to be here until the end of October, which seems to be the plan. I'm just a little worried about this good thing, which is probably most of it, that people are going to take a stand against it, not necessarily because we disagree, but because it's a big deal and there's a lot of trucking to get it through. I feel that we should show the case the respect to speed up. I don't see anything to argue that we're trying to win it a little slower. There will be a new government after this government in the next term, and it is not as if we are talking about the world being destroyed or something like it if those in government that are now not ruling them. There are many things to consider about this bill. In particular, I would like to mention that all the factors in the bill are in line for the breeding of the pension fund to be 3.5%. That's because we know exactly how the pension funds want to invest, i.e. to the extent possible for individual housing. If we start driving up the interest prices at the expense of pensions, it will have an effect. We need to figure out what we're doing here on law. Are we legally committed to the requirement that the crops of the pension be 3.5% for the future? We're overpaying, or we may not, etc.? There are various questions that must also be answered, such as. ... howmanycrowdedmen in A Company are paying extra pensions. I hope so. It's going to be over with a budget because it's gonna change a bit of the premise. The additional pension savings was introduced initially in order to match the terms between the public market and the general market for pension savings. We are naturally using the additional pension savings in a very different way than was expected. You can see it, for example. on the primes of what's-her-name. A government in which young and wealthy people can slave for pension are given the opportunity to pay off the head of the mortgage or to deposit payment on an apartment by making use of their additional pension savings. This is an enormous issue, and for us to develop some view, we need more time. V.E.G. A financial minister showed me a point about LIN of the 1st. the first time the matter was settled. That text needs to be explained better, at least in the report, and what is really meant. When me and others first read that text about financing, i.e. how it should be financed at the LSR, a single-mobilization of the A Company, we understood it so that it would be partly financed by bond bonds in the LAIN. It is worth saying that, according to the highest standards. The secretary of finance said that this is not the Lobster's bond to borrow, but the government's bonds to the LAIN, which lend them bonds or financed them on to students or students. It's a whole different thing, naturally. I can't figure out much of that arrangement, but it would be crazy to make a student's debt deposit. But if it's not being done here, I can't put much out on it. I agree with what others have. speakers say, sometimes it's time to do things. It may be time for this to happen, and there would be, of course, a very different situation if we stayed here for a whole year. Then I think this case is one of the issues we were about to take care of. But that needs to be settled. We need to hear the critical details about this. We need to start realizing what is being attached to the future. Are my prospects being leveled, or are my prospects for the future being cut short at my expense? I think we all agree that there is much discrimination in the present system and how public employees' pension rights are conducted, especially those who have been in very high places in society. There has not been a particularly high responsibility. But at the same time, of course, we need to look out for the low-paying classes, which are also part of the public sector, then I'm talking about the teachers' professions, nurses, hospital staff, and making sure it's golden, and it's absolutely essential that the bill can pass through, that these classes won't get worse out, but better if anything happens. Similarly, it is worth considering whether collection funds are actually desirable. It is natural to be blessed that we want each generation to live under, but there is another arrangement, such as. correspondent in Germany It has so - called perspiration funds mixed with special savings, where people pay a certain amount of insurance and some of it goes to those who are in pensions. There's no sign of stone when we talk about how we want to have the Pension Fund for the State or how we want a pension system above our heads. This sets an example of how the matter should be handled, i.e. how the government does this. A respectable president. I'm putting in question marks to see if we have time to resolve this matter. I'll put a question mark on whether the current highest level is in place. Secretary of finance is authorized to pass this issue through. I put a question mark on the practice that this has already entered the budget as a special feature there, even though the case has not even gone through 1st. The Senate. I put a question mark on what is being attached to the future when it comes to the interest of pension funds. Then we need to take a good look at this, just to be clear, especially with regard to the income of the public sector. It may sound obvious to some because people always think that the generalists and ministers are so rich and that they are so good, but there are more government employees than there are members of the proconsuls and generals, who hear more under the State. We need to make sure that they have the same good thing now and possibly as better in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u91	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I hear she has doubts like me about the speed in the case. I think it's a long time. However, I would have liked to be equal, not downside. In terms of interest to people, I always feel that I should not look back and try to pull them down in all their rights. It is quite unusual to have conclusions from the BSBA since March 11, 2011, since ASI is cursed for suggesting that the conclusions be resolved. Here, however, it is being done, and the BSRB is signing it. However, what I find to be reprehensible in the process is that the premise will sign and not be signed by its partners before entering a bargaining table, as is done when it is agreed on terms. That, of course, is ideal. This is one of the things I find interesting about the matter. I wondered, " Is this what it looks like today, so that long term work will be long gone? ' That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed? There is another, because we both like to get some stage photos. I think it's a little strange in the huge system change that's being suggested here that there's really no stage films being drawn up to show how it's going to look, neither on salary nor on the pension in general. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's details.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u92	President. There's a lot of bad parts, I've noticed when we're looking at as much extensive system changes as we do. This is exactly the point with the illustrations: Which aspect is being matched or extended? It depends on which groups we watch. It's all right to balance that with the most income-priorized groups in the pension system. That's exactly what's the problem with this and why we need a stage film is that not all of us have the same salary in the public sector and hear it under this fund, which is naturally extremely important to consider. I don't quite remember a question. The senator was very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u93	I was talking about long-term work conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u94	Yes, long-term problems in the workforce are natural fundamental guidelines. I'm very impressed with the arrangement SALKK's had. This means that we need to share in it. What has happened now is that the Ministry managers and others received a substantial increase in pay. Then you ask yourself, " Why is that a reasonable procedure? ' Senators have fallen behind, but we also have to look around so we're in a delicate place, we're not in blues, as many people would like to say. Likewise, we need to walk slowly through the door of joy. Although everything is all right now, we do not know what the next year will bring. I think it's a lot of optimism to get it through. We tend to be too optimistic about how government matters will be over the next five to ten years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u95	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's just that earlier I'm very into it and I've been trying to keep one pension system here. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason asked earlier if we should take the chance of letting this go, that there are funds now, and that they need to be put into this system. If it is a sincere desire to take this assignment so that a state of relative peace can be discussed at an acceptable time, I think it can be placed on an intermediate committee or other committee. It is also possible to make an earmark if there is an agreement between political parties at the General Assembly that the matter will be successful in this way and that it is in the natural way of considering it. I find it very important what is stated in the agreement, I think it's just such a big thing, saying that when the pay is to be corrected, methodology should be developed for analysis of pay, objective criteria to determine when to correct the pay of individual groups, and then a schedule of remuneration should be made on the basis of collective agreements for up to a decade. It's connected to SALEK. There's one thing in the pay policy, and then there's a general raise. The government sitting here, which will then establish these laws if they become reality, fluctuated into an equally paid campaign for the last government. She didn't think she was bound by it. I just wondered: " Why on earth do people have to trust that there's something more going on after they level their current pay plus what's going to happen over the next six to ten years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u96	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. Senator. It's just a question of whether we're in some dolphin race when it comes to the prize. This bill here, I don't feel like it's gonna give me a clear picture, like a dog. A senator spoke of earlier. How much pay is actually putting into the pension system by these changes? Is it expected that people will start collecting special pensions? That seems to be what the government has in general, but I need to draw my conclusions about what is very difficult for me. If the pensions are 9%, and then there's 9% reimbursement from the employer and then we're talking about a huge amount of pay, over 20%, if you look at it percentagely. Of course, not all is subsidized. It is also a tournament from an employer, which is in this case the state. I wondered, " What is the real effect? ' I don't think the bill answers that well enough. I agree with it. A senator said, that's why we're able to go through this bill and put it on some middle committee. I frankly agree that it is probably the most successful solution, not simply because the bill is all bad, not because we don't want to work on this case, but because we want it, a respectable president. I think there's also something that needs to be considered. We want to do our job well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u97	Madam President. These are helpful discussions, such as those that were so often discussed in the past. This case is no exception. I am glad that there is a conclusion here. I'm not going to hide that this is one of the things that has been planned for a very long time and in itself very good that some conclusion has arrived, but obviously it's not good enough and it's not ready enough, it's not mature enough to take a stand on it so that you can be sure that at least... Almost everyone in a member of the congregation is in good condition. I don't feel that this is the result of the discussion that has taken place, the letters I have received, and the expectation that other members of the council have been handed over by disgruntled companions. I've been working in one of them, the teachers' club, for a very long time, and I feel completely unacceptable that such a large organization has not been allowed to say what it is. They're two contracts and now they're facing it. I also told it about the 7th past in the contract, that there should be a special effort to balance the pay of individual groups between the public and the public labour markets, and people are going to put themselves on the job, as also shown on page 12. 14 on the bill, this is one of the things I find so big an uncertainty show. I think it's unnatural for a man to give up his rights for the future for the year, but it's only supposed to be under the government of the day whether, how much, and how to settle the pay. There is no attempt in this bill to deal with the work that must be one of the largest, since the public sector has been discussed in the general labour market in which it could not have had a proper competition with the general labour market because the terms are much better. Of course, the public labour market is not just one size, any more than the public sector is not one size. It is now said that there should be some methodology for dissociation of pay and objective criteria, when to correct remuneration, and then a schedule. I don't really understand, though, that it's been in the process for a really long time why it hasn't been done any of this work, it's at least not yet mentioned in the discussion, and the work cannot be rushed. I understand people are skeptical, and I don't trust them to think that politics will do their job when it comes to this. Neither is there any attempt to assess the additional cost of pay balance paid by the state's funds. Of course, it is important in the bill that, by permission of the president, it has to be assumed that the level of pay for this will be within the scope set by collective agreements and budgetary programmes, and that some other factors will be able to weigh until counterweight, such as increasing production in public activities, reorganization and economic development, technology development, measures to reduce other expenditures. It's not just open to two ends, it's a lot, I think. I would also like to mention the remuneration in the light of the discussion that has led up to the pay of the sex. It was reported during the days of a annual survey conducted by the SFR ▪ Public Service Group and the city of Reykjavík that reports that the gender's pay is very high, up to 20% for the NYU and 13% for the SFR. Women are working for over a month without pay. This difference in pay is maintained. As I told you before, this government decided that it did not have to take note of the equally rewarding campaign of the last government of the female class. Why are we sure that this balance will do anything more? In the event of all intervention, the current pay difference between members of the VR and SFR is around 15, 16%. Only in these years will the changes that the present government is going to face meet with the challenges it will face. I don't believe it gets caught, I just have to admit it. In the case of the changes presented here, the main item is the future rights service under which it is prepared and then the balance due to its not being done at the same time. The enterprises that have been specifically referred to are four partners of the BSRB, i.e. Iceland's National Association of Police, Iceland's Hospitalist Association, Iceland's customs and the National Association of Fire and Medical Transporters. That last book undertook an agreement on these changes at the meeting of the Council of Presidency of the BSRB. You're surprised it's completely ignored, at least it looks like it's completely ignored. and have, of course, not shown me any objections. Of course, there are different circumstances behind the problem, but the pay force is first and last to stand out. It is a responsible part of members of Congress to intend in a few days to accept the possible rights of the hall for future generations of public employees and their families without our having the weight of the budget, of course, there must always be numbers, all of them aware of it, and also because of the widespread wages they earn. You can see that people are reluctant to trust that when given consideration, they will receive these improvements. As much a prize effort as I mentioned. There are no attempts to determine how to evaluate the level of pay. I think it's a little complicated, too. I don't understand why this work has not been done. I really hope that there is something about it, that is all there is to believe, how to measure this balance, which groups to look at, or what markets to consider. There are others who have booked against this. The number of Icelandic naturalists was also against it. We've got e - mails from the teachers' organizations that have recently cut down collective agreements twice, and they don't really look very good there. That is where we know the discussion of preschool teachers and elementary teachers who have been far behind other classes of study and so forth. Then, of course, you can ask yourself: " What classes are to be considered, e.g. Like police officers, if we're going to match the terms of cops, how we're going to do it, and when that would happen. After six years, after four years, ten years? I don't know. We also need to keep in mind that at this time, people are getting older, and they become pay errors at this time, and at least they are doing so. 16% of the organization I mentioned earlier. We don't know it all, or I can't at least tell how much there's a difference between different countries. Thus, the real equation in pay is very difficult and, of course, will never be perfect, I realize that it will never be. But they're missing these stage shots, so we can set them up and watch them and say, "We're going to try to aim these groups at this, and something like that, and try to figure out how much this costs." This is the government that was not going to start any committees, but here again, it's time to start working groups and committees and try to sit down and negotiate something. I don't think this is the point of making a deal with the labour market. These are too large groups that are underneath that don't agree. I think that's the severity of it. I mentioned teachers and many more, the police. These are large groups of people who have been in a struggle for rights. The penalty was removed by the police, and it was to be added in terms and not to be replaced. I cannot help but agree that in view of the pay experience of the police class I received the answer to, I recall that it was in my head, which showed that there were rights left out of hand that were not added in terms. I hope at a council we have a choice to create some paradox confidence, though it may be difficult at times, and we can set the case along with those involved in it because I think it's the sincere will of all people, or at least, of course, you can never tell everyone, in order to correct the pension system. We can make the ears count if people worry that the funds we have set for this mission disappear, they don't have to disappear, they don't go away for years, not unless people decide to ignore it completely. This can be done by means of a number of projects, whether it is an intermediate committee, such as this one or something else. Finally, I'd like to underscore what I've been saying and why I'm worried about public employees, with what's going on at the core of pay-compasion and is quoted by the Ministry of Economics and Economics. I'll be able to read it, with president's permission: Since these markets were different in terms of professions and trade unions, education and other factors, there are various professions that work almost exclusively in either market. There is also a great difference in the public market, i.e. between state and country, which can be explained in the past of different degrees of education. Because of this, people felt that they could not build more work on this basis, so they concluded that both of them needed to be built on better grounds and to discuss between parties. I kind of think that's what I'm worried about, which I've tore up here, is based on. I'm also gonna get to quote my partner, okay? paritaprevir Ögmundur Jónasson, but I believe there are few in the council who are better acquainted with the pensions than he, where he says, by permission of the president: ▪ The problem is that large groups of public groups are certainly inferior, but they happen in public markets, but the opposite is also true. If possible, a higher part of the government's pay system is probably inferior, but the opposite is not true. This is not a universal rule, but because of this, the Long - School Association has generally been more acceptable to conformity than their subsidiary organization. I'm going to ask people to keep this in mind when they wonder if they should accept the matter here at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for throwing light on the present disagreement. I have, like other members of Parliament, received some of the mail lately, as dissatisfaction is described by the fact that it was written without the authority. I have to say, as it is, when I started to get these mails, I wasn't sure they were covering this case, I thought it all was pretty vague, I know the jury very badly. In view of this, is it not obvious that there is no need to resolve this issue right now? If there is no reconciliation on which the treatment is based, if they are going to continue with it on the grounds that this is so important, that it has been handled well, which is probably the case, if this kind of hostility comes to the earlier stage, is it not clear that the matter needs to be delayed? I ask that question because I think it's the right treatment if possible. I would also like to ask, Is this a matter that can be waited until the other items are resolved, i.e. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. A senator talked about? Can this case wait until the election is over and be replaced in a new season? I caught it just before people were talking about an international committee, something that I hope won't be standardized at the end of the term. Of course, it will be possible if it is a more suitable solution. But these are huge amounts, and somehow I feel that when you talk about such amounts of money in this category, it must be based on reconciliation. If she's not there, don't you think you need to wait? Is that what it's like to wait with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u99	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. As I said before, I don't think there's a chance of achieving a long-term cut on a labour market as it looks today. All kinds of people have been contacted. I went to a local financial convention. There I had a conversation with quite a lot of people who were very upset about it, and I thought it was a serious mistake to do this in this way. Of course you're worried. I understand that people who are on the line and have been trying to negotiate fear that if this doesn't happen now, it's a home environment. I don't know what the best contingency is if we don't get through right now. I don't think a month to or from now on would matter. In such a big case, I find it quite crazy to say that if this government doesn't finish it, it's not gonna happen, wanting everybody else to be against it so it won't happen. I think it's the reality here within the council, as I told you before that most of the people agree that we are supposed to repair the pension system. I would have liked to fix it up, and I too would have liked to see the stage photos that are not shown, when a man repeatedly hears in some way that seems to have been written without the authority, I don't know. If this has been going on for a very long time, does the post go on forever? Was it given by everyone, or doesn't everyone, just takes more part, dominant part? That may well be so. At least I think we can do this better, and we should take all these people to the table and give us plenty of time to talk to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u100	A respectable president. I think it is characteristic of this class, as well as social security, that the user group is generally very at odds with a number of things. Therefore, I find it boring when you fix problems, problems that are certainly there, problems that need to be solved, in baloney disagreements with the user group to profit from the solution of the problem. And I'm sorry about this, too, in the social security system and in another social security case we have, which, of course, costs 5 billion during the first year, if I remember correctly, but means that there will be a decrease that will cause conflict in the population that will result in failures following the legislation of that bill. Enough about that. I get bored when you take so much money to fix this big problem, and that's not settled, and when you point up the problem at the early stage of the case. We're still here on 1st. The case is not even considered yet. And often and often, like a whale. A senator may know, after the case is agreed when it is too late or on the same day, when the vote for the 3rd Environment is given. takes place. I always feel very bad about it, and I feel very sorry when such comments come when it is too late to consider them. Rather, I feel that it is important that we take them into consideration when they arrive at the first stage and again. We're on 1st. The case is not even addressed to the committee. There hasn't even been a statement yet sent out, but it's about to come in, which tells me that the disturbance is too much. Therefore, it is our duty to consider this matter. I don't know if it's going to cost a lot more money, but I think it's time for this group and family of lawsuits to be treated in terms of reconciliation amongst those who support the system, not just agreements between the groups that negotiate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u101	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. It's good to take the social security bill because we've only been doing it with us. Despite the long years of this process, some people have disagreementd and have been trying to have a conversation about it. When we're making a system adjustment, I've said - I've put it out of the Senate hearing and I can say it anywhere - that we've been successful when we set down a parapolitan committee regarding a Senate committee and the alien law. It would have been successful to do the same in this case, at least to some extent, for people to be reasonably informed about what was going on, but especially the groups under here. It is said that negotiations of the president of BSRB, BHM, and KHI have largely taken place before closed doors. I'm sorry if it is, there are a lot of people who think it's like that. I'm going to read it, with the permission of the president, Dr. Gunnar Gunnarsson, former director of Iceland's Hospital Society and former director of the SFR, said in a report in 2012, in more detail, in the hospital: ▪ Because of experience, there is reason to be afraid. [...] If U.S. heads of the BSRB are involved in negotiations of the changed civil pension rights of public employees, they can become in trouble. You know from old experience that in long and complex contracts, negotiaters may be drawn into a process they cannot get out of. Thus, it is possible to arrive at a decision that the person in question feels committed without the original intention of landing at that site. This has been the case in the past regarding changes in the pension rights of public employees, which were those outside the negotiations that opposed and managed to save the case. I hope we don't lose this case, but I hope we have a good conversation with all those involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u102	A respectable president. It's almost four o'clock, and we're this traditional theme. So I wanted to ask a respectable president if there was any news on the part of the government or on the other side of the House or any other member of the council that can set our priorities at the council today and in the days ahead. Is there any news on how long we'll be at a council in October? I think it's very important that we start seeing some discussion at all, and if no one's talking to each other, I think we need to talk about it. In fact, I don't think it's appropriate that we stay here for a meeting to discuss these matters, while it's not clear. This is fundamental. I'm sure that's too much. It's not freckles in my parts, as I think a respectable president must agree. I'd like to know if there's anything going on. Are there any lists yet? Is there a conversation going on? I think that's a good question. Is there any conversation now, between the council groups or presidents of more things and smaller things or whatever?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u103	Madam President. I'd like to agree with my last speaker, and I'd like to reiterate questions. Senator. How does the president imagine that this day will lie down and tomorrow and the other day? Thursday is the last day of the council's work schedule. We are discussing 1st. large system changes that will be considered and won and discussed in two additional discussions. It seems obvious to me that this case cannot be completed at work time. There are other major issues that will be discussed in the following articles. The president has considered how to plant this in two and a half days. What's the organization doing?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u104	A respectable president. As a respected president put it earlier today, it is long before trying to control the project. The task is very simple. It's not like we're coming to a similar project for the first time. We're gonna do this every once in a while. It's the most recent project. In fact, we do this both before Christmas and then in the spring. True, we're going to elections at an unusual time, but president, I'm just as surprised that it would take such a huge turn towards what is obvious to do, i.e. Sit down and settle over what matters first and who is not. Since this time it is totally inexorably, the council itself can take care of the project. The Parliament itself can set priorities, can cut the knot, and should do so. The President is to support the council. It's clear that the government's over. There is nothing for her to seek, neither in priorities nor in other sources of guidance. I think it's the most objective and reasonable thing to say that we senators, who are thinking about the matter, will settle down and decide what we'll do in the rest of our days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u105	A respectable president. During April 2, 20◯25 thousand gathered on the East Coast. Their agreement was that the government would resign and that would be our election. Then the government would answer to the fact that there were matters that she would need to do, and it would specifically mention the case. They'd have to be finished so everything would go on its routine and wouldn't turn over. So the way I was waiting. In June there was a big step, and today the program is on later today's second step in legal matters. They won't find out because we're trying to force the answers to when and how the government parties are going to complete this council. [[The president calls.]] We need answers. Until we get those answers, there won't be peace of work here, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] Our patience is at a loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u106	Madam President. It is important to recall the leading cause of our being here in a naval juncture like that. paritaprevir In his speech earlier, Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir arrived. From the highest. The prime minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has taken over forever protests that there are certain major matters that need to be completed. Then you're cutting onto something, but there's always a new one. Even today, there is talk that there is something that can be added to it. It's totally crazy. An officer is due on Thursday. That's why I have to reiterate the question I've raised before. Today's President is the highest. The President of the Generals to meet with members of the House or the presidents on how this council should be completed before the election? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u107	A respectable president. According to an overview of the state of Congress, 26 cases are listed, six waiting 1. Um... two is a continuation of 1st. and through 2nd. is one thing, as the situation is now. I ask, and I think it's a simple question: Is there a question for the six things waiting for 1st? Environment, such as registration and assessment of real estate, shipping, air travel, arms laws, cross-country and funding, will be completed at this council? Is this a matter that should only be measured for the coming news, or is it going to be done with these bills? I ask: Is this really our priorities; air travel and weapons laws, which are EU rules? Will we hold the council hostage because of them? Because every case has to be finished, like the highest. The social and housing minister was running around here from the side room earlier. [[The president calls.]] That's quite a number of cases, and I think it's a matter of personal opinion to be answered by the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u108	V.E.G. President. We, senators in my section, continue to come up here and say goodbye to the President's conference board because there are two days left in the Congress's program, and there is no charge of government. Government leaders do not trust themselves to sit down with the smaller parts of the council and consider their priorities. I don't think it can be because they're afraid of the fine people who are in charge of our council, but they don't trust themselves to make it our way that they can't agree on what matter to complete before elections. We can't go on like this. We've been doing it for weeks, but now it's over. Now a person must sit down and review the serious situation that exists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u109	Madam President. The situation is simply so that we members of the Parliament no longer think about being cohesive with the state of the administration home. It's a long time before we realize that the government is broken. She's not functioning. It is also not to direct the program of the council. It's the president who's supposed to. The president is to consider the state of the council and wish. Councilmen on this matter. Trouble at the government home has to be replaced by the European Commission. We refuse to be controlled by what's going on there. Now, all we have to do is complete a plan, campaign and campaign, and then, in a few weeks, a new government will take over the projects that are incomplete for this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u110	Madam President. I agree with my comrades, it's depressing, it's no one's pleasure, and the honour of the Council will be no more day after public revelation. intersecting the advance party in the media of light. It is clear that this is part of the lack of results in Congress. It is distressing to do so. Big deal. A long time ago, they were told there were very few and that they were listed. This is done, and there is no need to worry about it. That's why I don't understand how the nation can trust those people who don't even stand up for what they say themselves, whether it's a campaign or a certain big matter that needs to be resolved. It's in itself. Although we'd be right here until these four weeks' election, just so they say, it's clear that we can't finish all the cases already ahead of us because these are matters that were supposed to be solved in a much longer time, in one year. [[The president calls.]] I urge the board members to come in here and have a conversation with us. I think there's nine of them here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u111	A respectable president. It's not that we're here to delay some business from the government in this room. Not at all. We have a very important case, a change in government Pension Fund, that many people will talk about. But the day is stretched out because we need to know how the government groups, who cannot even rule at home, let alone at the Council, are going to complete this council. They have no idea. Do they pretend to be ruling the land? I don't know what they think they're doing, these nice men. But we will interfere with Congress until we receive answers from them. It's not because we're stopping the business they're offering here, that's because we want to know what they're thinking about completing the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u112	A respectable president. I asked an earlier sitting president who's gone away if there were over a few conversations in progress. I think it's minimal to get an answer. A respectable new president may not be why. 2.m. The northwestern hierarchical, Einar Guðfinnsson of Kristinn Theðsson, I believe that information can be passed on to a new president each time. That's why I'd like to ask a private president, "Is there any conversation going on? Is it known if there will be any priorities on the part of someone, either a respectable president or a government or someone else? Is there any information now as to what happens or what does not happen next? All information is very well-sounded subjects. I kind of have to insist on an answer, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u113	Madam President. I'm coming up here to say the word with the rest. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. Since 11 this morning, we have come up here regularly to make comments to the President's conference board. We don't get any feedback. We don't know if we're having a conversation. We have offered very encouraging suggestions for reviewing issues that may, necessary, be done. It will be possible for you to take the evening off to review the issue and figure it out. But now we stand and speak, and we are utterly ignored. That is what the Presidents of the Generals suggest in the crisis situation here, to go through with the government and not to respect the members of the council that are required here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u114	As soon as the president requests credit for not properly handling the state of the council in the district, it is announced that at this time the President has not information about the situation but will seek to find answers to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u115	Madam President. It is indeed a major stage that has been achieved by the joint conclusions of unions, states, and rural society on the future pension plan in the country. The result is the result of extensive consultation. There is now a convergence on the outcome between these parties, which is now at the council, of course, far too late. This has long been the subject and the barriers of the individual and state funds and the commitments of public citizens. Then, in 2009, the stability of the Treaty was made so that the government, rural society, and members of the labour market decided to take together the Pension and Pension Fund issues for discussion and review matters from the foundation and shape the vision for the future. As a result, a team of workers were appointed to agree on the future vision to reconcile and equal the rights of a general and public labour market, that the system would be sustainable with age-related rights development and a uniform pension age. Then the expansion and reconciliation of the problems of the public funds began and affected individuals who have won the rights of the present system. The result has come, as I said before, and the agreement signed in advance for the approval of the Generals. When it comes to such a big agreement between state and union and unions, the country where there is great interest, I feel that it would be necessary not to fall into the traditional political qualifications. On this matter, representatives of the hired people, along with elected representatives, came from all categories of state and rural groups. The problem is, however, that the matter is very late, and few days to work on a Senate committee or for a discussion in a Senate Hall. Of course, we need to take care of ourselves, Madam President, in handling the case at the General. We need to examine the circumstances and assess the consequences well, but at the same time, we show the respect that has been gained in the complex issues of the land's economic and ideals. Although I have a very positive attitude toward this matter and my whole mind and my ability to see the benefits, the big problem right now is that the bill comes in so late. We're here on Tuesday to discuss it in the 1st. Thursday, the Senate is due. You can't finish that big of a deal in such a short time. It is absolutely necessary to review how this important matter can be completed and therefore become established, so that members of the council can be sure that they have handled all aspects of the matter well, can stand before people, and justify their position of knowledge. This is the problem, that such a big matter is so late. Of course, our obligation at the council is to examine it carefully from all sides. According to a report of the work group, which discussed the case and concluded that the basis for the bill we are dealing with is that the main success of the work group was consistent and balanced to the rights of a public and public labour market is that the pension system must be sustainable, but it may be necessary for each generation to live up to its own pensions. And that age - related rights practices will be consistent with the principle of the pension system and pension age. The group suggested a pension right of 76% and a 40 year's pay. For these ideas to come true, significant changes must be made in the current cycle of pensions, including needs to be increased in the general funds as agreed by reviewing collective labour markets at the beginning of 2016 and increasing pensional age and altering the level of right-to-get work in the old age of the public pension fund. There is a way to draw together between the public system and the general, raise the punitive costs in the general fund, and raise the pension age, and change the rights process in the public. This vision was a great deal of agreement, but the parties emphasized that the problems of the public funds would be solved as soon as the future ship of pensions was submitted. You see, at the end of 2015, the insurance status of the A Company was negative for over 57 billion dollars. It's got to make some changes. The A Company is not self-sustaining. If the changes are not made, nothing will happen except that the department will continue to be fired at a angle, or that the cost will be raised to 19.1%, which means that they will still be dragged apart by these two systems. In the present system, rights accumulate on equal rights. Such emphasis means that the dollar paid to an employee, e.g. 66 years provides as much right as an employee who has, for example, an employee. Twenty - year - old says the bill in a memo, although the younger one will collect the fruit for 47 years and the older one for only one year. This results in young generations passing down the rights of older generations. The fact is, as the situation exists today, it is impossible that A department can be self-sustained as long as the department has equal rights focus on the ages of its funds. When it was being discussed and trying to work out a solution, the unions of public employees put much emphasis on it and, in effect, conditioned that it would not be a stumbling block when the acquired rights of public employees were to be added for changes that would remain the restricted rights of funds partners. A closer pay in a public labour market has been justified by better pension rights, and it would be clear that the level of pay between labour markets would need to be balanced. That's the biggest suspicion of all. Officials reason: The pension rights should now be changed and the game should be balanced between the public market and the general market, so that the pension rates of public employees will be worse. To date they have been paid for, and this has been a justification for the lower salary of public employees than in the general labour market. I remember it when I myself was in the preparatory and back section for a teacher's commission years ago and was in the country of a bargain contract. Then it became clear that the pension rights at that time were estimated at 6%. That's where the problems and suspicions are. However, it has been pointed out that circumstances in society are such that they offer a pay slip in the years to come. This may involve public employees, but this has not been the case before. The aim has long been to form one labour market in Iceland with a uniform budget. One factor is to coordinate the pension rights of public employees and employees of a general labour market. This is to make it easier to compare between the individual groups and to ensure that employees and those who are employed or who are independent of their jobs can move to a labour market and between pension funds at any time during their working years without having a significant impact on their rights. There is a choice that is not a pension right that prevents people from going to work. Madam President. Time runs fast, and it's big. Finally, I would like to mention the high amount of money that is to be inserted into the system to make it sustainable now, from a government fund, and also to come from other places. The government's budget will include nearly 100 billion people in this case for its success and will also take the largest part of the cost of the rural communities in there. It is possible to do so now because the circumstances of the State Fund are like those. It's like here in a memo: In view of not interrupting too much debt policy according to the five-year government financial policy, the plan is to finance the full commitment of the A-continent at three-ways. First of all, handing over property to LS in the form of loans from state funds to LAIN, e.g. about $50 billion; changes in cash control and funding per year allow space to give up money, up to $30 billion; then to increase the direct debt of a state's budget by publishing a financial bill, up to $25 billion. So this is the idea of how to finance, and this is a lot of money. But there are also great interests under, both individuals and in the same Kingdom itself. This matter must be discussed and examined. I'm very positive about that. I believe that there has been a lot of progress in bringing about this harmony, and afterward, many good things can be done. But I can easily understand the suspicions of state officials and members of the council having to cross it with their unions, all these sides, and can be convinced that the reasons are there to make a decision on the matter. It's a big system change. I think it will lead to good. But we have to take this discussion, and it's only a short time left for the council. It may be wise to put the money ahead of elections, but be careful to step to the ground, show respect for the agreement that has been reached. I haven't heard in the discussions here that the meaning is to address the case but simply to get to know it carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u116	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for her speech. She discussed the matter carefully and the importance of what I have heard about us, who have discussed in this discussion that we are in a position to agree. I'd like to start by saying things with a what. A senator's concern on how shocking it is is how late the matter is. Of course, it is impossible to conclude its discussion in two days, as well as all other members of Congress that have to be completed before this council is terminated, as it is to be done on Thursday according to the General Work Programme. There are enormous sums of less than 100 billion in money, and the system involves an extremely delicate system, i.e. progressive in later years. I would have thought it would take a lot of effort. Hv. A senator said it was a major system modification. I want to go inside. A senator will agree with me that because there is a major system change, there is also a major system change in terms of social security and pension rights that are entitled to it, whether it adds to the need for careful management and that we as members of the Parliament are obliged to focus on these two systems as well as the results that system changes may have between the public security and the system of a general labour market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u117	Madam President. Thank you for the question. These two big, big, system changes like a dog. A senator mentioned, it's this pension business we're talking about here and their future, and then the changes in the social security system. In the current issue of this magazine, there was wide agreement between state, community, and class members. In the Social Security case, a transnational partnership on the issues of older citizens was reached in the relevant committee. Their special situation is that they have been done well, preparatory work is good, and they have taken years, but they are late into the council. We need to give our last words. No matter how complicated it is and how difficult it is, we need to consider it. A senator mentioned, whether there is some overlap and whether there is something that needs to be fenced to the future. We need more time to do that. This is not to say that the General is just some restaurant. Although cross - political harmony and good preparation and a wide foundation under which to handle matters are of great importance, it does not make it easy for us to take sides alone. We need to go over the matter ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u118	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. The point, of course, is that we need time and opportunity to consider matters. I also feel that we have an obligation to have a good perspective. In fact, I think the obligation should also lie at the highest level. Government, that it has some perspective on what is being done in different ways. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator. The social security bill is now expected to start half the pension in the system and half the pension in the system we're talking about here. But it says that in the social security bill it's very open and there's really no information about the outcome because people start half of their pensions from this system. Is it not surprising that we are expected to accept these two bills without having tried to add these two things together, although we are not concerned with other factors that have not been considered in context? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u119	Madam President. Of course, it is part of our problem that we here have a government that is not functional and the activities of the council have, unfortunately, read too. The committees have not been able to complete their jobs and work properly, as well as the Senate cases have come very late. I can say with what. A senator said that it is necessary to consider these examples for good reason. A senator mentions. Although we want to bend, we like it, and we have people who have a chance to slow down from the work market and have some chance of choosing it, we have to check the connections between them. It's leaving, for example. this bill we're discussing with the Economic and Business Committee, it doesn't go to the same committee as the social security bill, so it has to be discussed between committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u120	A respectable president. If not everything in a speech, I'll agree. A senator agrees. I don't think it's a bad time to get this case into the council because it's been working a long time and a lot of work being put on the job to get it to this place. Today, few members of Congress remain, and the situation is extensive, as we have seen. There have been some ideas about an intermediate committee, which I don't know much about, but I found that there was actually something that would rarely be done and something that would be the ministry of a ship. However, at the General Assembly, it is authorized to call a committee that would work between members of the council. I'm just thinking aloud how to make sure this case isn't somehow if we don't finish it now, it's just off the table. But I think it's so important that it keeps going. Of course, the money the state is willing to put into it, some 100 billion, will not remain after the election. It's not like that. It's not just the highest. A secretary of finance who has the authority to put this money on, so can the next government. I wonder what really works out for us because we agree that this case is important, that we ensure that this case continues, survives terms and governments, and continues to work in the next government, and that any form of international committee or committee on the behalf of the council is a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u121	Madam President. Thank you for the question. Now I believe it is necessary, because of the way the situation is and how short it remains for the council, that the officers here, the president of the council, and the heads of the council, sit down and find out how to make the knots. I don't know a lot of political stuff, but I know that if the will is there, there's no way you can figure it out. We do not want the matter to drop. This is a great deal of interest, and this involves solutions, both to state funds and to individuals. On the other hand, I do not know. In fact, I do not think that the next assembly can be committed in some way, that we here can make some loose ends and that they will be held when new members of Congress take over. It's just a problem and an example that needs to be solved. We need to figure it out if there is not enough time that he obviously is not, how we can tie up the knots and respect all the work under the case and the agreements that have been reached. There's no confirmation from the Generals how we can arrange for them to recover so that all can be at peace with each other. It is a task that we have to face.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u122	A respectable president. I think it was a very good point as hell. A member of the Parliament came into mind that with a committee or a special committee of some kind, we could be re-electing the next assembly. Perhaps that is why these measures are not often used. But that's right. A senator, of course, says, would be the most natural case, such as this, which I consider to be parapolitic in fact, that we would sit down with a government, government, and president, and find a solution. But I guess the situation isn't like that. In itself, I have no other question for the senator. I find it interesting when we talk about elections that public employees then have had to accept less money than those that have increased pension rights. Now teachers disagree and say that they cannot trust that they will receive a similar reward. I understand that. But it's a little bit like that, like, a 223/4-tenth ring. [[The president calls.]] You can't promise to raise your salary right now. Or what? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u123	Madam President. A commitment between the state and employees and the unions may be made in some way to eliminate any suspicions that exist. Of course, the classes have the opportunity to fight for their own good. The other thing is it's clear that if nothing has to be done, then only the minus will grow in the A League, and this could result in the loss of the account on our children or the memory being so big that it can't be accepted for what has been promised. This should therefore be examined from both ends. I think it's a great interest for the employees to settle the agreement like this, but I may overlook something in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u124	A respectable president. I'm wondering about this with suspicious users, many of whom have contacted us through e-mails, sent us a line, and said that the written agreement was in a state of helplessness. Now I don't know how these communities operate, and I don't know the jury very well either, if I say exactly the way it is. But I wondered if it's not important, if it's a good thing - I'll figure it out. A senator is positive about the matter itself: Is it not important to address this suspicion? First of all, I'm wondering. I don't quite understand what this suspicion is all about, either. Whether it was a member of the Parliament's Committee or the World Council Committee, what assignment would it be to address suspicion? Is your suspicion based on misunderstanding? Is it only out of ignorance? It is often said to agree. In some cases it is said that consultations have been made, but people do not experience it, so they feel that they have been left out and that they tend to be negative about matters without any material reason. But this suspicion of the matter comes from just because people don't believe that later things will meet up with other demands, or how is it? I would be interested in better understanding the basis for suspicion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u125	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this question, although I cannot answer it. But as I can see this, from the message I've read, it's more like people are unsure about the situation, feel that there's a risk, and don't quite understand what this is all about. Then people do not necessarily trust the words of a government that is leaving behind. They wonder, " How is it to trust that this will lead to a higher salary? ' Will the pay of public employees fall on this change? I don't think anybody can predict how it's going to happen. People are concerned that, the ones I've been talking to, that future generations, they've definitely taken care of the situation for those in the league, those who come in new ones, will be paid both less than people in the general labour market, as well as those of the older and the older. This is the problem, and we need to discuss it here, but the unions also need to deal well with the benefits and the true value.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u126	A respectable president. Does it not make sense, then, that this issue will be postponed until it is at least clear how this suspicion can be decided? I don't feel that we're working on this case on the third day of the Council of 1st. a program that is likely to be held until evening or even longer. That we're going to take this issue through with all our affairs, and there are many issues that everyone agrees on the need to go through. Is it not important to address this suspicion in the early stages of the matter when it is possible to do so? Is there a problem? Do we need to take care of it now? Is it not possible to wait on this, away from the headlining committee? Can't this just wait for the next election season?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u127	Madam President. Based on the work schedule and the discussion here at 1st. I think it's obvious that unless something is done, unless you find something out, that there are some going over the case, and that the council is called in on October 29 to settle the matter. I don't know. There may be a good solution, but when people don't sit down to talk about it, while the government is so paralyzed and unable to function and cannot handle the tasks then, nothing will mean anything for us to charge what could happen and what could not happen. The problem we're dealing with is the government's out-of-work. That's the problem, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u128	A respectable president. Now the clock is five minutes short, and we are still in the first case, or the second case, rather, because the first issue is, of course, unprepared inquiries. I'm wondering how a respectable president can picture the evening and the rest, whether he sees himself finishing the program or stopping sometime before midnight. I will ask until there is some information about what's going on and who's talking or whether you're talking to each other, in fact, information about not talking to each other, so it may be worth the effort to ask if it's been changed on a regular basis. Has it changed now? Just so you know, I'm going to ask this question regularly for the rest of the day, as time allows. Are there new information on whether people are talking to each other? And how far does a respectable president see fit to continue a conference?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u129	Madam President. It is easy to agree with everything that came out in short but clearly. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. We've been calling to see if we're meeting about how this council is going to end. Sadly, the answers have been very little, so it is impossible to direct them to the highest level. President and again ask: Have some meetings taken place now between the highest level. President and House of Congress? If there is no answer, there may be no other question but that we keep asking about it regularly, for this is important about how we work here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u130	The president may tell you that he has not received an answer to his inquiry, so he cannot give up his position at this moment rather than just a moment ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u131	Madam President. I'm coming up here to ask you some news about the board home. What news of Iceland's government? Is she still in power, or is she breaking up in some nonsense? I don't feel comfortable standing here all day, just two days before the end of the council, which said to be a Senate hearing, and there's no total party here. There's just a bunch of minorities here, and they're ready to talk about it, but there's no big deal. I suggest that this meeting be interrupted, and the chairman of the council will try to discern what his next step in the matter will be. This isn't possible, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u132	A respectable president. I have to agree with it. 3.m. Smoke. So mentioned. I see no reason to continue this meeting until it is resolved. A key element is that we know what lies ahead. We need to set priorities for our time. We are forced to prioritize him here in a council hall now when we could be setting his priorities in behalf of other members of Congress, which we knew were due to be done or not. It matters. But I would like to thank a sitting president for answering the questions. It doesn't seem like it's here for some reason. I'm describing my pleasure with a sitting president. Then I'd also like to suggest to a seated president and to those sitting here later tonight to keep meetings informed about the course of events because there is no news at this point, as the situation is now. I think it's important that we keep this hall informed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u133	President. I must say the bottom with the bang. paritaprevir The Hrafn Snæfni Gunnarsson says that we can get all the information that the President can possibly get and re-route here to us in the Senate about what is going on, because those who are still in power, or hang in the cabinet, I might rather say, don't do much. At any rate, they do not want to offer suggestions on how we should complete this council. The election is now in five weeks, and it is easy to see in the Senate Hall that people do not do congregational duties. We're here, like, six or seven. A respectable president. I think it would be best for the council board to try to meet us and keep our respect here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u134	Madam President. In April, when that happened, it's the time of the day. The prime minister and current head of the advance party, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, were forced to force the officials of the government to declare that there would be elections in the fall, for there were strong protests and distrusts in this government. They said they should finish some big stuff. Today, September 27th has the highest power. The Ministers of Bjarni Benediktsson and Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson cannot agree on what issues that are. We have shown a humble willingness to cooperate and have endeavored to settle matters that we considered good and helped correct them. But this act is a wish for war. [[The president calls.]] I thought the Specialist Party had a lot to do in the wars at home and would not allow them to go to the Senate Hall. [[The president calls.]] But that may be the case, Madam President. This may make it normal for the candidates to appear, just thumb down, and pretend that nothing is left until everything blows up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u135	Madam President. The Congress has been doing quite well since spring and has often, with great harmony and harmony, and with the will to complete important matters well, to compromise, even in a good conversation throughout the General Meeting. Of course, in order for such things to happen, there has to be a total member of the Assembly Hall. So there is no hope for that. However, just as we have seen, there are a number of issues mentioned here. It could be a very good job, but to make it possible for a person to have the highest will. Government is already up to these matters and what is more important. [[The president calls.]] That's what we call it, so we can do our job well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u136	A respectable president. I'd like to ask for advice. We are faced with two and a half days left in the council. We do not have proper instructions on what to do in order to maintain a work programme. I ask a respectable president: How should we behave? How should we let things go so as not to be over a political career on our filthy shoes, so that the Generals will maintain their dignity and respect, so that we will discuss matters with respect and that the totalitarian rhythm does not mark what matters are going through the council? I ask a respectable president for instructions on how we should behave so that we can complete this assembly at the appointed time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u137	A respectable president. Never too often is a good reference. I suggest the President gathers information about what's going on with the government. What's going on with the Speaker of the Council with the government? I hope the government body has the ability to speak with the president even if he is not able to speak to the heads of the clans or members of the Parliament. I sure hope they're not under the table and not even speaking to the chairman. We're due to completion of Congress on Thursday, and it's now afternoon. 5 and it's Tuesday. It must be possible to tell us if at least humans are trying to determine what they want to do here at the end of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u138	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with that as a matter of course. A senator said earlier, that we need to know what's going on. There's three days left and we don't know anything. Everything's out of the air. We look forward to the end of the council, but this nonsense seems to be going on. So I just ask, and I propose to a respectable president to try to make us realize what is about to happen. It is violent to keep information from people. I feel a little bit like I'm in a violent relationship with the government being in the government's opposition, we never know what's coming. This is quite known. I think I know this one. I'm sorry. We've done our very best in cooperation with the highest. The president of Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God, who has cooperated, has put forth great effort to do so. That's exactly not what we get back. [[The president calls.]] What happens? Nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u139	Madam President. We here discuss the enormous interest issues of paymen in the shadow of the state of total resolution that requires that the situation be resolved almost without a discussion at the General Assembly. That's what I'm talking about today. I'm putting in another speech from before the weekend. Then I discussed this matter and expressed my satisfaction that the agreement had taken place, but I believed it was a big matter to be considered. I think all of us here have already noted that the matter is not at home in political holes. It's been working for many years at the head of the company of paymen and the Ministry of finance and the Union of Iceland. If we are to make such a decision at the Council, we must be able to back up our decision to the person involved. Since my speech on Thursday, there have been a number of challenges from people from the schools, individual professions and professionals who disagree with the treatment on this matter. I'm no judge in the dispute, but it just tells us that people are on the alert, because for the public, the financial rights have been an important part of the remuneration. There, large groups of women have accepted a lower salary because of safety and a better pension fund. Of course, people will be anxious when they begin to accept such changes if they are not well involved. We've received talks from a number of schoolteachers, most of whom are here in the city, where teachers are concerned that the World Council is going to accept the changes in the teacher's Pentateuch without teachers getting a presentation on it from their leading men. I don't know what it's like, but I'll take it as an example of what we're facing. Then we've been given medical advice, and we've seen that police and nurses are concerned about these matters. What is most evident in the criticism is the very thing that we, many members of the Parliament, have discussed that we need to take care of our stitches. There is concern that the pension rights of new workers have been reduced or will be impaired, worrying that professional life will be extended to women's groups who tend to do part - time jobs because they are difficult jobs, such as physical workers, and they stop working 65 years of age. They point to the fact that retirement age up to 67 years is no solution to this group. Then it is criticized that the responsibility of employers at the National Pension Fund will be taken away, and it is not clear how to level pay between markets. We spoke to some members of the council on Thursday and the generation stand for this matter. I'd like to agree with the words of my fellow party. This is a very important thing. This is a matter that we must resolve and the agreement that has been made is a certain stage. However, before we received these warnings, we still had a lot of time to scratch our head because we trusted to handle matters that were very important without having to put ourselves properly into them. And now we have received a request from the government that we give an opportunity for a better presentation and a better opinion on the matter before it is approved. I reiterate my wish here that this case go along with the Social Security bill on a special committee and that they will be examined there together. [[The president calls.]] This is an enormous interest. These are some things we have to finish, but we have to take care of our jobs and make it right with those who are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u140	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for her speech. I'd like to talk to her about her sex friendship. I think he's incredibly important. It is not to say that it is one of the classes of large women we are suffering. Congress officials have been receiving telegrams and e - mails. What I want to talk to you about. A senator is the side of this issue that involves the equation of pay boxes in public and public employment markets. It has been noted that there is no fixed payoff when it comes to payoffs. However, as time goes by, and you have a better opportunity to dive into the bill itself, and the text that follows it will reveal a number of things. I want to read from a bill note, which says, by permission of the President: Then there will be the possibility that the remuneration will be within the scope set up by collective agreements and financial programmes and that several other factors will be able to measure the compliantness, such as increasing production in public activities, reorganization and management of services. Then it goes on. Madam President. Is this not an enormous reason why we women stumble and say, "Hey, hold on, this needs to take a closer look? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u141	Madam President. I ask for respect in this laughter, for, of course, this is so far from laughing. It's just that text, it's rising on your hair. This talk about increasing production - is the production of medical personnel in Iceland not enough? Is there a great problem in Iceland that produces little? It's like each other's bullshit, and it describes such watery dreams of having an invitation to every business today as public public service. It's important to put these things in order for the future. It will never be made completely painless. That's a lot of interests. But such measures cannot be taken when there is so much suspicion toward the government. As a teacher or nurse, I would like to know more about the exact dictionaries of private business, such a mysterious preaching of an increase in private business, unless I have completely read the wrong mind world of this government that I'm beginning to doubt exists anymore. I understand this suspicion. There have been strikes where laws have been passed on to major women's classes. These are the teachers who have been dimmaging their bullshit contracts. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of distrust over chicken business. It must be looked to when we finish these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u142	Madam President. Thank you. For the answer, a senator has to say, in effect, that this is the case, as is the case with others from the highest level. A government, as the discussion unfolds, as much as there is a better time to dive into matters, becomes more evident in the text. Sadly, this is not the first issue of criticism. The difference between men and women in the community is not taken into consideration. How close it is to point to the bill on the Icelandic loan Fund! There, as the discussion took place here at the Assembly Hall, very serious defects in the case where, in the future, it will remain the law, women will be deeply inclined. So I think, even though we may at times have felt that we were reaching out, and we didn't make it, we're still, by covering this case and ignoring it, seeing factors that are important for us senators to take care of. It seems that it will be the lot of us who have women's rights and positions in particular to constantly point to the highest degree. The government does not seem to do anything to distinguish the text it leaves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u143	V.E.G. President. Disregarding this matter, both sexes and claws. As I've said here before, it's very important to find a permanent solution to these matters. There's a limp in the A League, and these things need to be restored. Similarly, we as officers have spoken for one pension fund for all, or a similar system for all. There are several factors, including the remuneration. And those of us who have been interested in and have tried to fight sex pay knows, in which there has been a review of all for information, that despite this analysis and integration and witnesses and what it is called, it seems impossible to eliminate gender pay. Now I'm convinced that it's quite possible and we will finally succeed, but that experience is enough to allow women in a labour market to think twice before they believe that this work will provide them with comparable terms and the decrease in the pension rights will be afforded to them. I don't blame them. When used in wording, it is like that. A senator read from the report does not expect to have a conversation and to feel at ease with such changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u144	President. This is an enormously important bill that we are here for a discussion, a bill to change the law on the pension fund of public employees. The work has long been done, and a great deal of work has been done. In 2011 a committee was appointed. On page 18. 4 in the bill says: ▪ Discussions on the altered order of the pension of public workers have been conducted in the field of a staff on the Pentateuch of the State's Pentateuch (LSR) appointed in March 2011. The bill is written at the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and is based on the agreement between the League of Colleges, BSRB and Iceland's Teacher Association, on the other hand, and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs on the State Fund and the Union of Iceland, on the other hand, on the basis of the changes in the Department of Public Employment Department, which was reached in the work force in September 2016. That it's been working for years, and I believe it, and I trust that it's done well. We've often talked about it here at the council, that work should be done more than usual, and that we need to consult with those under the law before the Senate has to discuss the bills. We cannot complain that this time, a respectable president, was not. But the other thing is that it's very steep, as the young people say, we intend to resolve this matter, and, in fact, any matter, in a week. Although the work was as successful as I would like to believe that it was done, it is nothing more than disrespect to the Allied Council to intend for us to do so. In the end, a respectable president, it is the body of responsibility. We're the ones who're going to legalize this. If anyone thinks he's carrying a small item from the table or not happy, we're here to answer for it. It's not the people we deal with, it's not the people who signed the bill, it's us. If that is the way it is, a respectable president, that it is part of the changes made that one group is coming out better, but another group is not as well or even worse, then we are the ones responsible for it. Then we answer for it, and we need to know the answers to it. So it is not possible to suggest that we make so much system change in the Pension Fund of government workers at this time. What are we talking about? We're talking about what people are supposed to live after they've finished their career. People who start working at the age of 20, it ends after 40, 45, or 47. Usually, people don't start working until they're about 30 years old. We are talking about decades into the future. Will we be willing to offer that every week the International Assembly will make decisions like this without being able to study the matter? A respectable president. This bill is a system change, and I recommend system changes in most fields. But in such a system change, we are talking about the salary of older people, old people, after about 30 years or so. It would be intolerable if the council could not resolve the matter in agreement. I would feel terrible if this case was to be run through, a case of this kind, with a high standard of living ahead of time, when we did not all trust to take responsibility for the system that is supposed to be ours. In order for this to happen, we need time. We need time to talk to each other and reach a common conclusion. When introduced at the outset, the headlines are that this is an agreement between the state and the union, an agreement between the BSRB, the Union of Staff of State and Towns, BHM, the Union of Colleges and KI, the National Teacher Union of Iceland. You will say, of course,: We have to pay attention to this. But it can hardly be seen when loud protests are heard, and it turns out, which I take as well as loud protests, worry that certain societies may not fully understand what this means, that much is unclear in this, that this has not been properly introduced, and that people do not fully know what they are expecting. Such messages come from the police department, from nurses, from physical therapists. It rains upon us, our honored president, our missiles from teachers and schools in the country. So it may not be strange that we are concerned about this. It seems that the big deal is, why do we have to deal with this now, why can't we do it after the election? I've been thinking about these elections, and they're talking about the need to do everything for elections like an election is an election. A respectable president. If we were to become an election, we wouldn't have to worry about this any more. Why do we have to do this before the election? Why do we have to take care of this now? Yes, it is because now the money exists. We've certainly known for years that we've needed money to secure the A- Department of Pension Services. On page 18. 14 on the bill says: ▪ It is obvious that the bill will have to be legalized and must take steps to contribute large sums of money, close to 100 billion dollars (U.S.) Now, people say, " Now we have this money, and that's why we have to do it now. ' But this money, a respectable president, does not go anywhere, even though the general members are allowed to study it. They're not going anywhere. Some say, "Yes, yes, it's election time, and then it's a temptation for politicians to start praising this money and so on. ' I can't believe that those who preach first and last stability think of spending this money on something other than they've planned to do it, even though it's not approved by elections, even if the members of Congress are allowed to look down on it. So I don't give much to it that we have to do this right now because we have the money. First of all, because we want to trust politicians and even the politicians now in the government. I trust them not to go and spend this money on something stupid, as they say, if this case cannot be approved for elections. If we do not trust one another and do not trust ourselves, the money can be placed in an account at the Federal Bank. We did it when the currency heads were released. Then we bound the money of foreigners who had money in banks for years until we were going to free them. We can bind this money if we do not trust in ourselves so that we do not spit out and south. That's not reason, Mr. Honorable President. There's no point in the fact that the money exists and that we don't spend it on some kind of nonsense, we have to accept it now. I won't take that argument. This is a very important thing. It's a pleasure to have an agreement. But I say as a senator: It is impossible for me, a respectable president, to be responsible to have the case here for a week's discussion, and though it was a half month, and to agree to it. We are here talking about the salary rates of old people after 20, 30, or 40 years. We can't do it in a week. Besides, I'm not going to go into it, it's been mentioned here that everything is pretty safe with those already in the pension fund, those who are starting to take from the pension fund or are inside the system, but very vaguely with those who are not in the system. It is very unclear whether the salary of the public employees can be increased to the same level with the general salary market. It is not even clear which groups of public workers would need to increase more than others. Unfortunately, this bill has been published and needs to be examined more closely, its weaknesses need to be recognized, and its strengths need to be recognized. Eventually, members of the council will be responsible for this law. Those who negotiated it, members of the labour market, will never be responsible for this law, it will be members of the general body. Hence, members of the Parliament need the time they need to be able to handle this matter safely with what they are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u145	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator before the talk, but she made several important points. What I have found very interesting about this subject is that those who have gone forward have reported that they have experienced it as they have overlooked it. All of this is management classes and women's classes, as well as low - paying classes. I wondered, " How is this possible? ' Is it part of the possibility that equal pay or pay equal conditions do not exist in that profession? We are referring to caring classes, such as medical personnel, as well as the teachers'class, who have stepped forward and are critical of noncommunications. So I have to say, if people find that they're out of work, we have to take them seriously, especially when we go over it at the council. I wondered, "What's the deal? What's the deal? A senator can tell me something about it because we're talking about big classes that hear under government staff. Likewise, I wondered, "Is this part of the public staff system really possible? ' Then I'm especially thinking about caring for care groups such as the nurses, nurses, and others in that situation because it would naturally somehow shield the state of pensions, not true, if it were a private thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u146	A respectable president. For example, I have no doubt that the governments now in power may want to privatize some service that is largely or completely in public service. But I don't believe them to get it into this bill. I don't usually agree with conspirators like that. On the other hand, it is not surprising that the less paid classes are more concerned about this. This is naturally in part because people have even enjoyed less money because pension rights were good. So when it comes to pulling it back suddenly, people don't see exactly how it affects them. Now I haven't read the bill well enough that I know exactly how to do it. However, I was shot earlier, e.g. for the sick, from what I hear, are part of their speculations and fears, if I may use that word, the change of the age benefit, since these people are often a little grown up when they have medical treatment. When I was shot, I suddenly remembered that I had two sister-in-laws who were somewhere between 30 and 50 when they started that job, unfortunately, they're both dead, so it doesn't come down on them. [[The president calls.]] But I already turned it on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u147	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for the answer. You see, there are so little discrepancies on the report with the bill, i.e. They need a few stage shots. We do not know exactly how this will actually be played out, what the employer's expenses will be compared to the employee. Is this what you're assuming is that people will pay special money at the same time? So how much of the pay will go to the pension fund? Are we talking 9% at 9% and then the special pension money on top of it? What does that mean? About 25%? Is that a little high? Is that high enough? Is it too high? Is this realistic? You see, I have many questions about how this is going to play out. I'd like to know if there's anything I can do. A senator shares these concerns with me, especially in cases where there is a need for visual analysis. By reading the bill and passing through it, it seems that there is a bit to consider all government officials as a single entity. It's just not like that. It is natural that there is a huge difference between whether we are referring to medical personnel and teachers or to government officials. So this is a question of where to level and whether to match or down. I wonder what. A senator shares the concern with me that this may not be the basis for the underpaying classes and whether there is any possibility that it has really not been handled well enough in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u148	President. It's a rough night. A senator makes you think about it naturally. That's right, there's not stage photos in there. It's such a general statement about how these things all will be and what they will be. paritaprevir To illustrate: The Steinunn Death of Þóra's Árnadóttir read to us earlier today about what it would take to bear in mind when it came to reducing the amount of pay we had received. That's probably why you can't let the bill pass through here in a week. That is because questions need to be answered. A senator asks. Are the underpayers placed on this bill? Is this more favorable to those who have a higher salary than to those who have less pay? I can't answer that. There's nothing in the report with the bill. I just can't answer that. If you're such an enthusiast: Yeah, well, I'd better believe that being a pig in the underpayer, then I don't want to believe it, Mr. Honorable President, I don't want to believe it. I want this done properly. I want to be sure of that, and I want to be able to convince myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u149	V.E.G. President. I think it's beginning to lower to the second half on the 1st. of the bill to legalize a change in the law on the Pension Fund for the head of the state. So I'm just talking to myself, I've found this discussion to be helpful. There has been quite a harmony in the talks presented here. Most of the members of the council appear to be having to make these adjustments, but it has been noted that time as the Generals, as well as the members of the Parliament, allows them to discuss the matter in a way that is far too difficult. In fact, whether we trust in the continuation of the Generals work programme and whether we finish our work on Thursday or if we will continue to meet something in October. Exactly because the discussion has been a bit dramatic, it has been pointed to a number of smells that are important to keep in mind. I have felt that the question is becoming more and more perplexing in the discussion of how to equal the pay of public and public employment markets, but the subject is actually introduced into the future. I am so worried because, as in comment on the bill, it is assumed that pay balance will be within the scope set by collective agreements and financial programmes and that there are various factors that will be able to weigh until counterweight. Is there a reference to, e.g. increased production in public activities, reorganisation and management of services. I don't feel that it's easy to read out any plans for increased personalization. What I find, however, is that this is a detractor and may be put to the mild expectations of the classes involved in this bill, for the future increases in pay. I feel that this is a very bad case because, as the discussion has repeatedly pointed out, much of it is a large number of women's classes. If we were here at the beginning of the council, and this was one of the first things being discussed, I wouldn't hesitate to say that I thought it was a reason. A Senate committee, huh? The legal committee in this case, which gets the case, must sharpen the wording and perform extensive diagnostic work on the bill's impact on gender, with regard to the different effects it may have on the sex. It's not been done with this case. This is a point that I did not get into my first talk about the subject, so it was important to include it in a second talk. If we want to continue in the first category when it comes to gender equality, then we need to act against the sex pay. There are opportunities in this matter, but only if there are steps. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it must be expressed strongly as to how to balance pay on public and public markets.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u150	A respectable president. I just wanted to make the most of it, that's all. Economic and economic ministers here at the Congress Hall asking if there is anything to learn about the rest, either at this meeting or during the coming days in relation to the situation that has come up. We've been complaining a little bit today, which I know gets on some people's nerves. Councilmen, even the highest. counsellors, over not knowing where the rest will be, which is, of course, an unpleasant situation. I don't think I have to go over it any more. I just want to go to the highest. A minister is here to ask both the highest. A minister and a respectable president will know what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u151	A respectable president. During the last few days, the Senate has been doing just fine. I have a complete understanding of that, especially in view of the fact that we are about to enter the election soon, that it is called upon us to have a common view of how the council will end. However, this conversation will not be completed here at the Assembly Hall. Rather, the heads of the classes, along with members of the council, need to evaluate the situation from day to day, depending on the issues that arise from committees. All I know is that the prime minister was in touch with the company leaders last night and after the events today to help us determine if there is a common vision of how we will tie up the issues that have been on the program. We've waited a long time to finish the 1st. the issue just ending and the next issue on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u152	A respectable president. Is it right, then, that we should just finish every case, finish it in committees, then turn it over like good children, and we shouldn't be heard from ourselves? There are 26 cases in committees and 2rd. It took a bit. Environment and Transport Committees, three months to produce members of the committee and to resolve cases. The work of committees is slow because somehow they need to set priorities. With the current status, the highest. President and Chief. Secretary of finance, it is not possible to establish priorities. We're getting big, important cases on our own at the Council. Aren't we going to win them well? It seems there's no wish for that in this administration home.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u153	V.E.G. President. I come up here for the words of the highest. The secretary of finance, who says that the Senate work in itself has been successful, and then we will evaluate the progress from day to day as outlined in the committees. Mr. President. We will not resolve any cases during the time of the Supreme Court. A government does not trust to speak to us as men do. That's just the way it is. Besides the fact that on welfare committees, we have trouble meeting because a great many members of the Committee are meeting with big stakeholders who want to hear political parties for elections. We senators in my section will not be meeting in committees during conference meetings. When I invited my members to a meeting after a meeting, they did not rely on commitments at election meetings. That applies to members of all categories. That's what's up here. I won't be invited to the highest. The Head of the Independence Party speaks to us in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u154	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for hearing my case here and answering my question. I wanted to ask him - he actually seems to be running from the side room - how was it possible that people would not be talking now. Why are we waiting for some committees when it comes to talking with other class leaders or those who handle these conversations at this point? Why are they waiting? Why wasn't it done yesterday? We knew yesterday that it had to be talked about yesterday and if not yesterday, today. But now it doesn't seem that there's any way to talk, so I just wonder why it is, but the highest. Minister's gone, and I don't think he's gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u155	A respectable president. It's a surprise to hear the highest. Secretary of the budget is speaking as if the plan had no value. I wonder now and in the future if headliness should be wasting time doing a work plan and printing it out. It is not acceptable to say: "We just see how things are coming. The plan says the last day is Thursday. So, are we going to see how the language is moving until Thursday? Is there a new schedule that I don't know about? This is not an acceptable, respectable president, and I think it's a pretty lame thing to always come up with. But we have to start having some conversation with the government about how we're going to finish this council. It's just that way. People have gone out of their way and have gone into a campaign. For example, I don't see any more of the part of this chamber right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u156	Mr. President. I have to agree with my associates, it's not acceptable to be treated like this, to say this, and thereby dishonor the plan that is still in force. You can't expect us to settle matters here day by day. I'm asking the highest, too. President, there was a meeting at a fundraiser this morning: has this been decided, without discussing with members of Congress, that an evening meeting will be tomorrow? That would be nice to know. I don't think it's proper while everything is out of the air and people haven't even been able to talk to each other. I agree with that, too. Of course, people should be talking to each other every day. They're supposed to speak to members of the council. It's the members of the job here at the council. The program does not include the presidents and the executives, it should not be at least Of course, this conversation is to take place with members of Congress, and they are to take their advice along with the president. But I'm asking a president if this assembly has been scheduled tomorrow night.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u157	No decision has been made on an evening meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u158	V.E.G. President. Had any of the presidents who sat here on a chair today or the highest. For example, the minister of finance was listening to what the senators were saying when we were not asking for the highest order. Secretary of the budget or the highest. The prime minister put in the platform a priority list. No, we weren't. It would have been fun if someone had been listening to us here today and even thinking about what to do with our demands. The requirement is that this meeting will be held by the heads of the political parties here at the General, whether presidents or members of the House, or presidents of the government, with anti-continents, in order to review how this council can be completed. But to invite us to be glad that if we are a good worker on the committees, something might happen. That's not a good way to create a better atmosphere here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u159	A respectable president. It is a well - known situation at the council, and it is known to all who take part in this discussion that it will not be resolved in this public talk or under this part of the program. One person says that one thing and another are not acceptable. What I don't like about the people of this country is the fact that the council is acting in a way that has grown old, that the less part of the council take a hostage crisis, which is fully pressured forwarding a meeting on which my section will be stopped. [[What business?]] [[What is that?]] That's what's happening. Therefore, we need to reevaluate the making of Congress and stop making raids on the people of the land with the progress of the council here at the General Assembly. [[Up front.]] That's the problem. [[Up front.]] That's exactly what the newly elected president of Iceland made for a conversation in his campaign, and I take my mind. [[The point is: What about negotiations?]] These pleas and reactions by the authorities to these obvious facts say everything that needs to be said. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u160	A respectable president. I'm going to allow me to claim that the government had been complex, cooperative, and hardworking. I don't know what's being held hostage. I'm calling for the highest. The secretary of finance will come up here in a pit and explain what it's all about. There's a lot of people I'll stick around, I'll just say. I watched TV during the last term and saw how people behaved. Congress is due on Thursday. He's at the highest. Is there no respect for a program established by the council president and the Committee to Presidency? What's all this stupid shit about? I'm very offended, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u161	A respectable president. I don't particularly like the highest language. Secretary of finance. The government situation has been extremely cooperative. We've worked hard to get some compromise. We've been asking for the priorities of this government, the important matters she was going to complete, which she announced on the stairway at the General House on April alone this spring had to be completed. Friday was e.g. Meeting terminated by 3:00, 4:00. There was a very controversial subject on the program, electrons in the back, a language that we could have rushed into the red death if we had been interested in it. No, a respectable president. What we're interested in is knowing when this is going down, because it's beginning to look like some knice comedy because you don't know what's going up and what's going down. A respectable financial minister needs to begin to understand that we want a schedule, we want priorities, we want to understand when this is over. [[The president calls.]] It is understandable, asking for it is not just an obligatory act of the minority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u162	V.E.G. President. It is not for us senators here at the General Assembly to accuse them of an incompetent case until the end of the year 1. from the highest. Government's already in command. Its advisers should be just as well aware of the success of Generalis's work plan as well as of us private members of the council. So it sounds like my ears, like the highest. Even the financial minister realized this and had a little bad conscience, so he tried to turn things upside down. It is not a problem that we want to do our job well, discuss matters carefully in 1 Cor. and to make sure that they are well treated for Congress, the problem is that things have gotten too late in here. And then, in the face of problems, there is no job management to decide whatever subjects we are going to complete in the short remaining time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u163	A respectable president. What was that for at the highest? Secretary of finance? What was that as high as possible? Secretary of finance - if he could listen... [[I was talking to a president about the election.]] What was he saying here? He was driving us into the government stand of taking a hostage. This is the contribution made by Secretary of finance, Barry, the Bjarni of Benediktsson, after we have been working here on the subject objectively. Ever since the reigns of Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnul, since April, we have done our conscientious work, for all spring, all summer, all the time in the autumn. Then what does the secretary of finance do here? The truth of the financier. He's talking about taking a hostage. I'd like to mention that, a respectable president, to the highest level. The secretary of finance is being granted access to the platform to apologize to the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u164	You must apologize to a council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u165	No, come on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u166	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for 2016. The bill presents the General Parliament with proposals for changes in budgets due to several specific and unpredicted budgets in 2016, including a monocommunication for the A State Pension Fund which was the last legal case here. The proposals in the bill note events based on new legislation, uncertainty and unforeseen expenses, and decisions made by the government on expenses that have been carried out during the past year. In preparing the budget bill, it has been emphasized to be acting in accordance with the role of budgets as defined in financing so that it consists primarily of suggestions on unforeseen and inevitable budgets. It is assumed that other financial arrangements will either continue to be the responsibility of the relevant legal remedy or that the events will be considered in the next year's budget, as these matters need to be resolved permanently and not just to be considered temporarily with a bank account. In this way, adequate maintenance of the government's financial administration will continue to ensure that there will be an variation in budgetary funds. A respectable president. However, the financial bill presented here can be considered to be an unconventional profile. In view of the expectation of the end of September and the proclamation of elections before the end of October, the decision was made to provide a financial bill that is only for the few specific and unforeseen fees, especially for those who have been specifically discussed in the government during the year or have come into the shock of commitment. Secondly, the bill suggests the necessary changes in budgets in line with the estimated single-mortem effect of a bill for changing the law of the LS, which I allow to mention, the Pension Fund of the Ministers of the State, and I had mentioned earlier. Other than that, it is not a standard plus-a-half budget bill that reevaluates the income plan of budgets, along with a review of the entire budget gate set out by making changes in the laws on the ratings of state funds, funds and logs, as well as special statements and detailed reports. This bill, therefore, does not suggest changes in the budgets of a systematic depositor as has been commonly used in a complete passage on an annual budget, such as social security, health insurance, and state funds, for example. In this regard, I want to see that, according to the information available, budgets are being carried out at the best of the year, but the overall reassessment of the world's eyes is expected to be carried out in connection with contributions to the budget bill later in the fall, and they may need to respond to the financial status of other taxpayers. The result of what I've said here is that it is to be expected in practice to come in a second financial bill before the past year. A respectable president. I want to know that budgets for 2016 will be the last ones that fall under older budgets, No. 88/1997, since the year 2017, funds will be provided on the basis of a new law that is no. 123/2015, public financial matters. Their laws on the role of amendments are similar to those of the budget laws, but they clearly point to the viewpoints that I discussed above. Official financial laws require permission of a minister to seek additional financial resources in the bill for financial support to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget, as these cannot be dealt with with by means of other measures. This refers to a release by means of advisers to transfer legal documents within the budget or to use the so - called reserve for the case. This new structure will further reduce the scope of funding from what has been done and add greater responsibility to the Ministry by exerting effective financial management in its sectors and litigators. But then I'll go to the main topic of the bill. It is requested here that government funds in 2016 be increased by 88 billion dollars. which corresponds to an increase of 12.7% in total budgets for the current budget. First of all, changes in budgets are proposed on the basis of a number of specific and unsupervised budgets in which commitment has developed during this year or has been given a special consideration in the government earlier this year. Total but 4.5 billion dollars. or equivalent to 0.6% increase in total budget. Second, there is the change in budgets due to a single-mutation in the Department of Pension Services, which I have already discussed today, and it is assumed that the taxation of the year on the basis of this case will be 83.5 billion. or equivalent to 12.1% increase in annual expenses. Finally, thirdly it is suggested to transfer funds from the 09-989 unpredictable expenditures to other teams for the losses resulting from storms and sea floods at the end of the last year and the consequences of the last year's Roft. A total of 319 million are expected to be transferred. K. of this occasion, among the plagiarism. First, the bill's key budget is up to 1.5 billion. increase the contribution to the aging institutions for strengthening the daily budget due to nursing management. The occasion is an agreement between the Commission on welfare services, the Union of Iceland's Union and Iceland's Medical Insurance, with the establishment of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economics, on the basis of the services and management of daily nursing institutions. A three - year Ramma contract will be made on the basis of the agreement, which involves additional funds for the business. Second, there is a significant excess of the head of the State Department because of the increase in shelterers over the total budget of 2016. A foreign agency has estimated that taking refuge could be in the range of 6003/41,000 compared with 375 in 2015. In this connection, 600 million are suggested. K. increased budgets due to the cost of the inhabitants of the country's shelters and 200 million and one hundred million, respectively. K. warrants, including to the Foreign Institutes and Foreign Committees, as a result of increased management and to speed up the treatment of refuge attendance. Third, move on the cost of total elections was accelerated from 2017 to the year this year. For that reason, it is suggested that 562 billion be granted. K. increased contributions over the current year to 320 billion. K. contribution due to direct cost of self-election and, on the other hand, 242 billion. K. a donation to senators and governments, which, in some respects, will fall into place next year, as well as some post-election expenses, such as the purchase of equipment and equipment for new members and housing. For other fees in the bill, there is a proposal based on government approval of 427 billion. K. Documents related to the recording of new S-labelled medicinal products, proposals for 216 million. K. contributions to improve the safety of tourists in accordance with travel management directives and increased financial support due to intensified tax control and tax research. In addition to the bill, I want to make sure that the pressures on our founding system, including ours, are under way. Because of the increased number of inmates, of course not confined to the Foreign Institute. We are not in this bill to make a proposal for a special addition due to border protection, but the internal Ministry has called attention to the obvious increase in the financial need for national border protection and to consider changes due to the increase in the number of applications for asylums in Iceland or international protection. Similarly, it must be remembered that the arrival of tourists in the country also increases demand and puts extra stress on all border guards in the country. I think it's necessary to be able to do this and that the council, a financial committee, has to look to that for at least Next year, funding bill and at the latest of the budget for the next year to improve the process. We need to review the situation regarding border control and the need to meet the requirements in this regard. On the other hand, I refer to further discussion on spending proposals in commentaries to special financial groups. A respectable president. Before I do what I want to do, I'd like to briefly discuss the planned outcomes of the current year, along with the changes that have been made in loans. Although the bill does not suggest a change in the income side of the budget or a complete change in the spending side, the co-work of the bill has been prepared a crude review of the estimated result of 2016, taking into account the revised schedule of last July together with a loose review of the main system-based budgets and including the changes proposed on budgets in the bill. Cells are expected to increase by 37.1 billion. from the budget of the budget, except for changes in stability produced from the fallen financial companies and 77.5 billion dollars. including them. In this case, the rate of expenditure is expected to increase by 97.9 billion. including tax returns due to contribution to the biodegradation of A- mayon R. Obviously, this payment may have the most impact on the year's survival as well as on the stability project. The initial balance of the state's budget is estimated to be 3,80 million in the year 2016. K. and is getting worse by 20.4 billion. ... fromlaws. Apart from stability production, the primary equation is estimated to be 2.8 billion. and getting worse about 60.8 billion bucks. ... ofbundreds. This is where the currency for the LS has a significant effect. It is expected that the interest rate of the state funds will be slightly improved from the budget, i.e. The total balance of 2016 is estimated to be $35.8 billion. including stability contributions. Except for these, however, it is estimated that there will be a limp at a total balance of 53.4 billion dollars. That is about 60 billion dollars. It's less egress than money. The largest part of the changed product in the current year is mainly explained, as I have come on, by irregular and business partners on the income and pay side. We have seen such things in the past few years. On the income side, 40 billion dollars are expected. increased revenues due to reassessment of account-based management of the stabilisation programme. The 2016 budget expected that this part of the contributions would increase in income in 2017 and later, but it is now expected to be fully harvested in 2016. This increases our income during 2016 but reduces our income compared to the long - term predictions we were working with in 2017 at a convention. It is then assumed that commercial interest will be $18.8 billion. higher than the budgets expected. In addition, the fiscal tax of the state's budget is expected to be five billion dollars. higher than budgets, which are mainly explained by higher profits. The fiscal tax is also moving to pay on the expense side and thus has no effect on the survival of the year. If the above irregular changes are excluded in the bill, the underlying amount of change on a total of 11.3 billion will be estimated. That's 4.6 billion bucks. improvement from budget. It is assumed that during 2016 there will be a pay-and-registered steady-state supply from the fallen financial companies total 379.3 billion dollars. It is estimated that the total wealth of the state's budget will be 1,118 billion. and has never been greater in the income of the state. It is estimated that the total balance of state funds will be 35.8 billion. or 13.7% of GDP. With the exception of irregular revenues and shifts due to the ISR, it is estimated that the total equation per year will be 39.6 billion k. In terms of the budgets associated with the bill on changing the law on the head of the state's Pension Fund, which has already been discussed, it is estimated that if about 100 billion bucks. The contributions of the state's funds would be fully financed by the stock market, with greater impact on the debt market and on the goals of the state's debt to which it is desirable. Thus, other options need to be considered. In this regard, it is most likely that some of the government's loans are being handed over to an Icelandic student, whose position was about 95 billion. at the end of 2015. At the end of the year, it is seen that the quality of the state's funds will be better than expected in financial terms, resulting in changes in the financial management of the state's budget, increased irregular income, and improved recovery. It allows space for deposit to LS, in the form of cash. It would be considered to finance a portion of the deposit to the LS with the release of bonds, for up to 25 billion dollars. It was unchanged that the proportion of land production could be about 1% higher than the budget planned. It is assumed that the contribution to the fund will be funded by mixing with the previously mentioned advantages. There has not been a set amount limit in this relationship, since the development of external factors, such as market conditions, the contribution of state funds and the property composition of LS, affects the possible outcome here, but we will make the best use of individual financing options. The switch between these options has been estimated to be about One-third of each. The impact of a government fund to the LS could otherwise be about 5 billion. negative on the interest balance of the state funds starting in 2017. If the former bill of change of government Pension Fund is accepted, the state's debt status could be up to 25 billion. above at the end of the year, the budget was expected. The impact of the changes in debt management during the year is that the current year's interest rate is reduced by 830 billion. K. From the budget, i.e. about 72.6 billion dollars. of 71.8 In payment, the interest rate declines by 110 million. K. A respectable president. I've studied the key elements of this bill to raise funds for 2016. I've decided not to cover the loans very closely, but I've considered the funding of the contribution to the RSR and other points and further explanations for the report. I suggest that the bill, following this discussion, be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Parliament's budget, and it's going to take care of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u167	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. Well, it's a number of the budgets, like many others, that there's a lot of stuff in there that doesn't count for unseen expenses, and I'm sure they'll happen later, not just now. You can think of one of the first teams of government administration, i.e. ... withthePresidentand Homepage. If the website is old, it's not new and it's clear that it had to be done. Of course, this is not a lot of money, but it is becoming a custom rather than an exception that the office receives annual improvements. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on three. The General's research committees are here. They are applying for contributions due to study of the German bank's involvement in purchases of nearly half of the State's share inbox banks. This is to be over at this time of the year. I'd like to know if the Minister can say anything about the situation, if he has any idea where the situation is. There is another question I would like to ask. 40 where they want 27 million. K. Prescription for a contract with the London Office of the International Public Relations Corporation Burson-Marsteller. It says that the government has decided to cooperate with the company, which is a tool for counseling and services in the economic, marine, and international sectors. This is a partnership that started for the summer and should last until the end of the year. I'd like the Minister to really just say what it's all about, what's going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u168	A respectable president. Yeah, it's an old story, and we're just talking about whether there's good reason for all the joints on a budget bill. I'd like to now that we've gone to all the laws and rules on that subject in this case, but there may be some perspective on that. I would generally like to say that with new laws on these subjects, the environment will be substantially altered by creating a reserve for the Ministry they're supposed to be able to use to cope with unexpected teams. Hence, it is planned in the future by the reserves and by means of a warrant for actually moving within a year and inoculation between individual lawsuits, financial contributions are made in the form that we have no longer used to get used to before the council. For other matters, we are asked about the Burson-Marsteller Convention, which is an international PR company that has helped the government. I believe that a contract with that company has been extended this year after the government has established a premeditation plan that would have to be introduced to foreign countries. I don't have any information about a position on this research project, but the request for a special additional warrant is based on the position of that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u169	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. There's also something interesting that I was interested in being inside all the work on the new budget, but the Ministry assumed that they needed more money. We had already spoken our way through the financial council, but that is to be expected in this room. Of course, that should have been there too. Away from that moment, I'd like to ask questions about the future. It quotes a law on the management of the water management and the induction of the water supply order and speaks of a payment on employment that used the water resources should have been carried out by most of the preparation of the water directive and that it was due to begin in 2013. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether his opinion is that this fee will not be applied to the current business and that the funds should come primarily from the state's fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u170	A respectable president. Well, I don't know if there's a record of how to get paid for this, but in the meantime, at least. is making a suggestion that this may be funded from a government fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u171	A respectable president. There has been a discussion at some point in a very bad talk about the work of the council as a note due to the cost of law due to those seeking refuge, including Because of living and that kind of thing. I cut it at the highest. Minister he spoke of the cost being also in the border custody. I have personally had the word that in the worse part of the discussion, people often assume that it costs terrible money to let people into the country, but it would be free to throw them out of the country or leave them for a conclusion or something like that. That's why I'd love it if it was the highest. A minister may find out more about the cost. We naturally know that this is because of those who take refuge, which means that it is a cost that falls before people are approved, i.e. if the comments are agreed. This is a cost that comes from keeping people away from the country because we have a lot of love for it, in fact, to tell us if we want to let people into the country. I know this may be in the legal field. A minister isn't about the day-to-day thing, but I think it's important that we be clear. We who want humanitarian foreigners and in general, more freedom of movement are often accused of not wanting to talk about this cost, not wanting to talk about this aspect of the matter. I think it is important that we show our complete willingness to do so, but we also recognize that the cost is due to the booth we have created ourselves. I'd love anything to be the highest. A minister can instruct me in this and especially if he can confirm my understanding of why this cost is involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u172	Mr. President. Of course, this is a very extensive group of subjects that are being asked about. I look at it this way: In recent years, we have had very high costs that it has taken a long time to handle requests in our operating system. In the meantime, the person's trust has lived under a very unattractable situation, the cost of which has been obtained from the State. I believe it is a good investment to put more money in this category, and especially in the administrations so that we can speed up the management process. I think it's a matter of rights that we give those who have the right to do so according to our laws and international commitments as soon as possible by the management of the administrations properly, the decision-and-care committees and the necessary things, to give them the answers as fast as possible, because it will save money to put money in the administrations to settle these applications, and because they are humane treatment of the situation of these people. So let's continue to help adapt to Icelandic society. Just as it is possible to respond as quickly as possible to those who do not enter the country. It is really a terrible treatment for people living and time, to keep them in uncertainty over long periods of time because we are not funding the administration and then may end up at least six months of age or two by giving an answer. It is humane, and it is a good investment to invest money in supporting the administration and handling of these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u173	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister will answer and be able to agree, if not simply everything that was presented there. However, I have reason to be aware that when the speech has gone into the rush of a hearing, although it is certainly one of the most urgent, changing the rules of action that focus primarily on the rate of action if it is not taken into account that rejection is not simply to be carried out. Of course, it's not at the highest level. A minister, so I don't expect him to answer. I agree that the trial needs a lot of speed, but I think this Icelandic always uses the Dublin Protocol when there is a potential cost to a lot of money. I'd say it's worth research. If the highest. A minister knows something about it. It would be nice to know. I'll agree with the highest. Minister that putting money in this suit is a good investment. This is not to say that when we wait and spend money on a system that we have installed and then there is no suitable reason to blame ourselves and make them feel that they are the problem but not us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u174	A respectable president. Of course, there is a very big difference between 48 hours of payment, or 48 weeks of payment, or 148 weeks. We have an example of taking up everything under two years because our operating system could not produce a final attitude toward the application and all the time being kept in doubt and resulting in enormous costs. Therefore, I believe we must act. I think we're right next door. A senator that we cannot take all of these cases and handle in two days, but we can learn a great deal from those who have been successful in this field, and we must simply place funds on human administration in this respect to do much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u175	A respectable president. This increase may not be in the amount, but it seems to have been a little bit of going through the points they can access. This is far different from money for 2013. That's when they went to the top. Secretary of finance so that there were five, six teams under the Presidency, who somehow walked into the 2013 fundraiser. About computers and car purchases. There were many more public visits that needed to be financed. Actually, it was as if a good budget had not been prepared for the office. We found our way into the fundraiser, and we criticized it in our memory. Here's the office of the President of Iceland again into the fundraiser. Even if the amount is not high, as mentioned, you would think that five million people on a Web site should be included in the government's financial resources. I think this is a matter of equality because I expect other institutions can't get new websites financed on the budget. What's going on? A minister of that? Can collections and high school, as well as others who need a new homepage, be financed? Another factor that's here, and it's also about the president, not that I'm obsessed with him, is the State Department. It does not speak of large amounts, but it does refer to an assistant for the current president of Iceland. [[Front row, ex-husband.]] - Yes, ex. We agree that former presidents are undoubtedly very good ambassadors for land and nation, and it is not surprising that strength is given to them. But should that not be confined within the financial resources of the foreign service? Is it not the decision of the foreign agency to say that they will prioritize in this way, perhaps raising their budget for the next year? I'm asking this because in other respects it seems like most of my people here, such as the law on money money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u176	President. Yeah, there's two teams here that can be discussed in this context. Regarding the former president of Iceland, it is very long since we had last president change, and cases had developed in a way that the government did not cost assistance to the former president. Now we're changing presidents, we're calling it a request. I think it's a little far gone to say that the council should have figured it out, but then it's a totally clear view. A senator suggests that this is not the amount of money that the State Department might have solved it. We put this before the council here following a conversation with the State Department that has no room to end the case this year, but, of course, it will be in the budget of the next year. For an update on the computer equipment and a homepage for the Presidential office, we are showing a certain flexibility towards the new president and the Presidential Office by entering this site's budget. But I have to keep it in mind about the Presidency in general that it is not a great deal of money and not a treasure but a lot of what we have with men in other parts of the administration system. If you look at it in this context, I don't think it's a big deal, but I'm sure it can endure a discussion about whether it's in the state's interest. That's what I'd rather have said here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u177	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. The big joint here is the pension bond, and I just want to curious. In fact, I am glad that this work is done, and even if it had to come earlier, it would have been done and not seen how it goes, hopefully it will just continue for the next term. But it's two cases. Can we accept this amount of money if we haven't approved the big pension? I wondered how this hangs together practically, because I'm worried we won't be able to get through this. Of course, the sum of money is a small matter, but this point is really what requires discussion and careful opinion, and it fits in completely with the other. How practitiony saw the highest. Minister of Peace if we can't finish the pension, which I'm afraid we won't make?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u178	Mr. President. I agree that it would be the best thing for these matters to be done together. I'm still hoping that we'll be able to finish the IRR. Otherwise, it seems to me quickly, I hope I don't overlook something in it, that there was in itself no danger with the existence of the budget because if the LS case were not to be passed on, the budget would simply disappear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u179	Mr. President. I'm just going to come into this discussion, but I'm not going to extend it irreparably. I don't agree entirely with what it said that most of the people here could fall under the prospect of being invisibility. It is also stated that this is not a full budget bill. As a minister came in, and it says in this, we will have to respond again once a new government has come together, and a new financial bill will be submitted and the situation will be taken back. It will come, for example. on page 18. 19 (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? (c) What will be considered in the next article? (b) What will be considered in the next article? Of course, it is defined as why, largely, and that is because of these pensions as presented here, but also because there are so much irregular revenues, stability donations, etc. One of the things that are also discussed on page 18. 19 is about money from the firms, which are higher than expected. We have often held it up, and we have found it strange why it is not possible on a regular basis. This is indicated by the fact that a minister did not change his financial value much, that the plan was to use the stability proposal to account on the Secret Bank, which has only been paid down 25 billion, which is 65 billion, and may not be paid up or not. That is also the case. the recovery of the in-use stability material. That's one of the things I've said and I said when the budget was submitted, that's with the stability and demand of them. It's underlying in that program, based primarily on it, and we don't know what it's going to be like. So it's part of it and it's gonna show up here that it's totally gonna be there to see if it's gonna be. It is expected that 30 billion will be used in a stable effort to pay off debt for the remainder of the year, but nothing is available. I just want to go over a couple of teams. I asked about the Senate research committees and had been interesting to learn more about them. I am happy to see that at last the decision has been made to transfer a federal lawyer. It's up to 10 billion. K. until the office is to act on behalf of the European Court of Human Rights, i.e. This is a case handled against the courts that have been carried out in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and brought to a state lawyer. I think it's good. Here's the State Police School, too. The cost of moving and laying down the police school is nearly 44 million. But because of these changes, i.e. moving him to a university level, is setting up an educational and professional development site that will be located in the local capital area of the police. I think it was a good procedure in itself to do things like this, although the timing might have been disputed. It is natural to realize that it was all too late in itself, although it has been well fulfilled since then. Then there's a few things in the education system, all right. I'm not gonna slow it down. For example, a temporary supply of 50 million is to be made. K. a donation to a language field project for the Icelandic language. That's a very good assignment. This is a new assignment. But that's one of the things the budget says shouldn't do, i.e. I'm going on new projects. Sea and water research, equipment and equipment on ships. It is suggested that 146 million be assigned to finance the founding of the ocean bed around Iceland. It is stated as evidence that this would be the anniversary of a 50 - year observatory, which was actually last year, so it could have entered the budget, not the budget. The project will begin at the beginning of 2017 and last for 13 years, with 200 billion. K. every year, which is 2.6 billion. This is being expected in the financial programme, but this was not expected in the budget of this year. It's one of those things that I think could've gotten into budgets. The same is true of house - to - house subsidies involving the Western Islands. This is not really a new truth, but it is only a decision that is made late and is so small that you feel political. Then there's the Marshal who gets the money I mentioned earlier on the basis of education and employment site. I'm worried about things that don't show up here, but I'm sure I'm going to come up with the money you need to come back to. There's a total of 83 million dollars here to be given to the Marshal, including the Marshal's office. 20 million because of the security and police force of Icelandic police departments at the European football tournament this summer, which is worth a lot of money, and that's all right. But there is no new money that can be taken into the police that is far, far below the limit, and that requires much more money. In effect, this is what happened during the summer. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson asked about the cost of moving inmates from the country. Here's 20 million. K. up-to-date contributions to cover the costs of recruitment of employees in the field analysis, publication and implementation. I think that's part of it, but I guess it's some sort of criminal thing. Here are the contributions to the sheriffs of the North-End and South. There are 22 million in northern Europe and are primarily to finance highland care, and the same is true with the Southland sheriff, 76 million because of the increased tourist current. But I think I don't think it's going to end up getting together, because every institution that connects us is complaining that pay is not fully paid. It's just that it doesn't matter if it's an education, law enforcement, or county. They are trying to solve the situation, but they obtained a coordinated and distributed to office debts instead of starting at zero points with new institutions. Almost all agencies that have contacted say that for some reason the government does not fully make agreements, i.e. paybacks. Of course, it's completely unacceptable. These two teams at the Chiefs are mainly due to the decision to expand their patrol in the highlands. It's not adding anything or anything, it's part of what the government decided to do. With the most secure people, I agree with the highest. Minister, it's good that these are put on the rise to help and speed up the situation. It's very important, and it agrees. In the future, of course, people may not have to wait long for a decision to come into play. That is a principle and was one of the findings of a full-scale educational committee and proposed the release of the so-called alien element. It is also a joy to see that the Red Cross is raised because of its ministry's spokesmen, 40 million. b., to live up to the cost of applying. This is very good, for there is a very important work to be done. Then there's the road model. These unexpected expenses are being removed for disaster because they are primarily designed to meet them. That's even. Because of the land of Skaft Rivers and the growth of lakes in the East. The city's coast and the River Valley were severely damaged and on the south side of the shores, as many know. The estimated estimate of the total cost of repair on highways is some 143 million. K. I certainly hope that it will, even though I worry that it will not. So it's 80 million. K. increase in the contribution to various measures and improvements in the road system based on proposals controls transport measures to increase the safety of tourists in larger tourist areas. I don't know what any of these places are on the subject, but this is likely to be in our discussion with the Committee on the matter. But this is also one of the things that is not completely unpredictable; it has been a long time before that the infrastructure and our road system are badly affected. The Decade Fund has to do with damages that occurred in ports, rocks, and rocks in the Valley of Breið, and the city's spendings after the storms I mentioned earlier, and actually around the Hornland as well, and it's a good thing. In terms of health insurance, there is an increase that I hope will provide, even though I worry that there may be a change. This is a large amount of money, more than 500 million, but we certainly want to be first among the nations in trying to introduce new drugs. We know the discussion that it was not done much, the induction has been in absolute minimum for a long time. So finally, Mr. Honorable President, I am pleased to see contributions to nursing homes. It is a large sum of 1.5 billion who will be provided for the nursing home. It's this frame deal that's being made. At that time, they will be like the rest, who have already come to meet and are owned by a localmate who is now attending. I'm also happy that the office of the head of the tax and taxpayer's committee will get extra funds to go to the IRS, since we've talked about it a lot here that could be about 80 billion out of taxes, and that's probably what it takes to reach them, and that's good. Last of all, I'd like to say about what I mentioned earlier, and the minister might have answered a little. Yes, there's one before, it's Lake Mice. We discussed the issues of CEE and small rural society, which have taxable irrigation issues. This should be a budget, although there may be only 3 million, to cover the costs of the reporting of irrigation, where there are potential benefits to be considered. That is, for one thing, a clear recognition that this is a task that the community alone cannot perform. So for the rest, that's what I asked the highest. Minister on the charge of reimbursement of employment that uses the water resources. This is a commercial use of fresh water that the government has failed to achieve. The Commission had this on its own, was ready to settle the case, but I think it ran aground on the Independence Party, since he wasn't prepared to lay expenses on the job, I understand. But this is something we have to do. I really can't agree that we can't find some kind of intermediary means to share this cost with the state and the companies involved, of which there are 110 million. A respectable president. I'm gonna make this work for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-27-158.u180	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill for budget money by 2016. As you can understand, I aim to talk to you about the things related to welfare. This may be quick, since there are three reasons for financial aid at the Ministry of Health. It includes medicinal products with S-labelling, but as mentioned, there is a serious deficiency in the ability to take new S-labelled medicinal products, preferably due to rheumatic diseases and oncology. I'm glad there's a 427 million coming in. K. to increase the contribution to the joint of S-labelled medicinal products, which previously had 100 million. K. They've been given by the Ministry Museum. That's about 527 million. K. which are coming into over the budget, and in fact, it was anticipated that in the budget, only 3% of the physical growth is expected, like so many years before, and it is always pointed out that this is an unrealistic donation, but then it comes in the budget. This is not a good practice, but surely it is possible to introduce new medicines that are important to people's health, and most of them have the quality of life and community involvement. It also contributes to contracts obtained at a nursing home. There are 1,500 billion of them. K. This year's nursing management budget is supplementary. Medical insurance was issued on the basis of contracts with the European Community on welfare services and the European Union. In order to achieve that agreement based on a demand description for aging services, additional funds had to be added. According to one report, there is evidence that such a contract and that it is agreed to complete a final contract this year by October 1. That's 64.5 billion. K. to the Children's Institute for Children's Health for Homes for Young People. This is one child who has a serious problem. I don't think there's much explanation for this team. It's close to personal protection, because there's one person involved. I think it needs to be kept in mind when it comes to this in the reports. I'll take the example in comparing various economic and economic projects. They want 27 million. K. Prescription for a contract with the London Office of the International Public Relations Corporation Burson-Marsteller. The government has decided to cooperate with the company as a tool for managing economics and services, marine resources, and other international causes with which the office was consulted. Work between June 2016 and the end of the year is expected. There's some seven-month period where we're taking advantage of the Icelandic state, a British PR firm. The type of assignment to take and why these are only seven months is very unclear. Is this some particular assignment? For example, there would have been no danger in providing us with better information. There's one part here that's now a very low sum of 3 billion. K. a donation for services performed by the former president of Iceland last August 1st. The former president is getting an assistant at 50%, and it's the head of the State Department that will provide this assistance and service for various projects. This is expected to be 3 million a year and 7 million dollars. In 2017, a decision for assistance and service should be made for reassessment no later than after two years. This is where I feel there's a little bit of logic that I need. Now it is so, Madam President, that I believe completely normal that the former president of the Republic is given such assistance, I can say. I know, for example, that in 1996, when Mrs. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir left office, she received no such assistance, but she has been in a job for the Icelandic state for 20 years and has gone around as an eagle and has completely taken care of it herself. I don't think that's something I do. But I feel that if we're giving that kind of money, we've already defined when such money is possible and there's some kind of thing about it. I know there are differing opinions on these matters among members of Congress, but I personally don't think that the former president of the Republic has the potential for assistance of some kind as a result of a project related to the person's being the former president of the Republic. We at the Union, the goats, would like to have a system of things built and would like to have some rules built in general and be decided that we would like to have it this way, but it wouldn't be only in the hands of the government at any time if it was available for such assistance and service. I can't pass by here on a little discussion about budgeting with the health care department. Today, on the front page of the News magazine, we read that the Ófeigur Tryggvi Þorgeirsson, the regional health care director of the Grafarvogur, is deeply concerned about the funding of the health care facility and speaks of its potential level of up to 60 billion. K. surgery. That's a lot of money, Madam President. Then I'd like to testify that when we reached our understanding of the change in health-reporting system and access to the implementation of the Service Management Board for children to start with the Service Management Board, which is to ensure their less expensive health care services, we were required to participate in the less part of the financial process in the payment of the trial that the payoff will not be higher than 50 of you. K. This year and, of course, the next year's budget comes, but it is also true that by this time the medical care would have to be increased by 3,300,400 million. Thus, reviews on the subject repeatedly expressed concern over the poor health care facilities needed for this added assignment. It was also discussed that health care is going through a lot of changes and is focusing on teamwork, where nurses and other special groups, while doctors get greater medical value. This would need to be intensified so that health care could take on increased responsibilities. It was confirmed by the highest. A minister of finance, who is now not taking little advantage of being present at 1st. for your own bill, Madam President, and confirmed by the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. But now the Ministry of Health tells us that these 3,300 to 4,400 million to whom we speak in a committee study should come to finance new personal health care centers. These new private health care centres simply mean that some doctors from the health care of the capital area have established private companies around the health clinics, thereby taken out of the clinic, and may also bring some patients with them - I rejoice to see the highest level. The secretary of the country - and with the money with him - is to be cleared up somehow. It is obviously unacceptable that the establishment of new clinics at the expense of current clinics will be at the expense of financial management. We planned to get more money from the current clinics. When we had this conversation with the highest. He told us that these 300 to 400 million should go to private clinics. Instead, we spoke strongly about having access to health care programs to promote them in order to manage these projects. It only teaches us that ministers abuse the trust of members of Congress in half - truths, and that's a shock to me. It's a great shock to my council which was willing to go on this project on this basis, but then it's also that these are the budgets of the present government, and the next government can bring in new funds. But I'm just stressing that I believe that the money available here on welfare is truly a worthwhile project, and it could have been more successful, but it's the nature of the budget that they're on certain limits. It's good to get extra money on the S-labelled medication and it's important to complete contracts with nursing homes. But I really miss my health care not to be paid, and it really needs them, because health care is the key to promoting Icelandic health care. The case goes to the budget board, and I know that our agent is there, okay? paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, will request more information on health care funding during the current year.
