ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u1	There have been two letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neons asking for an invitation to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 857, on transport operations, from Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and with a question in question. 747, for travel studies, from Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u2	They don't expect a vote at the council meeting today. Similarly, the president would like to call attention to the fact that there will be a break in the council for committees between hours. That's 1,3β-14 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u3	V.E.G. President. Covetousness is one of the human skulls of humanity, and it seems that the epidemics of the human race are now erupting Iceland. Both of us see that borrowing is even a matter of paying our own money and throwing the results into the future. I'm going to make up the subject of proposals to the head of the bank who have been in the recent discussion and are actually making an all-time statement with Icelandic reality. It seems that even the rulers of banks that are newly restored by the State or by the means of the State, and even they own part of the State, are paying themselves benefits that are incomprehensible to ordinary people in Iceland. We are told that this is a global competitive environment. Now, Mr. President, I'm not aware, I don't know all, many Icelandic bankers who have left the country and taken good places in large banks abroad. Mr. President. I'm willing to take a chance because there will be a leak of wisdom among the bankers and they'll flow abroad and work in foreign giants. Admittedly, more than 200 businessmen are on unemployment records in Iceland, and they will probably be able to step in for a salary compatible with Icelandic reality. So I'm willing to take a chance on this, Mr. President. We set a law last year at the General Assembly in order to get a connection with our proposals and we thought that they had arranged for someone to see them and not overdo it. In view of recent events, it may be necessary for us to change these legislation and eliminate all requests to bankers, i.e. to the managers of a bank, because the epidemic greed afflicting society these days is completely intolerable and must be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u4	A respectable president. Later today, there is talk about insurance companies, and most of them decide to pay big money from so - called reforms. Recently, there was much discussion about a different kind of financial dependency that involved payoffs. They are merely a smell of much greater and, in fact, much more important, how we want to live in the future. Whether we want to live in a divided society, where the wealthy and better off the married couple would like to live. Whether we want to live in a society where a small group of people can almost behave freely in their position. Whether we want to live in a society of injustice and hostility. Whether we want to live in a society where individual companies can behave almost as much as they like to customers, because of their size and the fact that they have few on the market. Whether we want to return to the years before crash. That's the question. In 2008, there was a loud demand for something called the New Iceland. It was best for fighters to understand that a new society would be built in which all people would be almost equal, the quality of society would be divided in equal terms and expected to be honest. That idea, of course, was nothing more than an opioids. Most people always want more, higher quality of life, higher pay, better car, bigger house, better position. Those who made money because of bank collapse have not forgotten the splendor of everything. Today, new characters and actors are on the stage, but the ideologies are based on the following: I, of myself, from me, to me. It's beautiful, but it's unrealistic. However, we are under obligation to do what we can to make society a better and more reasonable place. Society's weight and the lack of a few calls for a new rule in a financial market. Not all of what works in much larger communities may be going on here. [[The president calls.]] Let us not be afraid to make changes. That's a requirement for society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u5	Mr. President. I'd like to talk about electrical activity on the Westfjords. There was an excellent meeting on Monday on Iceland for its outlook on the construction of electrical energy in the West, and this was because private citizens have shown a keen interest in the activation of the Deep and the Inflation. The extent and extent of the development of the enterprise's ability to build up were wide and wide. Granted, extra energy would be greatly improved, but its basis is that it will be cyclicalized on the West. All the other plans to activate the Whale River, which would produce about 50 megawatts, and other less activates on the Deep that would also come in addition - the basis for its use in Western life, both for safety in electronics and for the possibility of further building up in smaller industry and strengthening the existing sector, is that it is a cyclic link to the West and that the infrastructure is in order. The transport system is in good condition and the government will stand up as well as a link system to the Vestir of each other in electronics. It was discussed that there would be an inclusive network, and now I think it's up to the government, and they owe it to the Western Union to express a clear plan to strengthen the electrical supply systems of electricity and ring connection within the West so that if the project has to be activated by the Whale and other activations, it will be useful to the Westerners, but it will not be driven out of the area to other parts of the country that have access to energy far greater than those of the West have had so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u6	A respectable president. Now, in our community, we see the disturbing signs that the unremembered dance of the golden calf has begun in full force. It seems as if 2007 is about to come back. In politics, we see a familiar sign of sickness; it is indifference toward those who are in the race, to the poverty that goes to bed in our society, not only to worldly poverty, but also to spiritual and community. Personalization and marketing solutions should solve each individual's problem, the freedom of the business should be respected, but the well - being of the public, consideration, and concern for the individual is of little value. Remuneration is given behind the tents of a chosen group, and the Kingdom will be of billions of income. The insurance companies are taking a sweep of the credit fund, funds that have been created because of the insurance industry, which insurance companies have collected innuendo due to over-exploited damages. 8.5 billion are now to be taken and put in their own pockets, much higher than the profits of the companies. How could it be that a company run for public funds - because these are insurance companies - can get away without government control? The F.O.B. has the legal authority to intervene. For example, it may order the unions to repay bailimplies in funds or to use the funds to reduce their fees. A respectable president. It's time to end. It is enough that the Icelandic public is so abused and repeatedly exploit the financiers. The government must take action to stop this uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There have been laws in Iceland for less reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u7	V.E.G. President. Today, Hannahnarmar begins a festival that is now held for the eighth time and has indeed become a prominent part of the composite of all articles of design and is presented as a firm foundation, a work that plays a significant role in the past. Seeing the growth, the power, and talent of the Icelandic designer makes me notice that Iceland's government decided at its meeting last week to propose the Prime Minister and Culture Minister to give 6 million. K. of his contribution to the project Handwork and Design. Handwork and design have been done continuously since 1994, first as a project by the Ministry of Presidency, and then as a cooperation with the four advisers. In 2007 the Department of Education and Culture for the Work was founded on an automaton. The aim of the current contract is first to promote the arts and crafts with advice and information and to improve the quality of this sector. Second, highlighting cultural, artistic, and practical value of crafts and art industry with varied presentations and holding a database on the work of handwork and art industry in the whole country. The work of handwork and design is crucial to a number of crafts, artists, and designers throughout the country, especially individuals in the scattered areas of the country. The arts, demonstrations, and presentations are featured in the design and design of the country, where the art and crafts of the whole country can promote their work. There are many cases of the development of individual jobs in the country in connection with this event. The design and design have, in fact, been in the value of a handwork and the art industry as well as an active cooperation with a comparable North American organisation. By means of this work, there is a guard to the important cultural product that is used by the Icelandic hands. I encourage all of us to remain on guard of this great work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u8	A respectable president. It is only hoped that at the Council, we will be shocked, as do many others in the community. We must constantly, day after day, look at self - execution in many of our systems. As the moisture was just moments ago, we have been discussing the payoff business, and this is by no means the case. Another matter with the Lands Bank appears to be coming up on the surface too. I have to agree with those who have been talking about insurance companies. The self-important we've been discussing here these past few days is completely unacceptable and we have to respond. I guess we've all been involved in getting our insurance payments sometime during the New Year's season, where we had a considerable rise in the pay, and the explanation was that the poor share of insurance operations last year was the reason. So we, the customers, get an increase in industry pay on account of leaks, but the owners get a substantial increase in profits because of good food. That doesn't sound right in our ears. I think a great deal of the nation must feel like it's been robbed in the sun. The insurance companies act like they own this fund, but of course we have it. They can, of course, take care of us as their customers. We've changed the rule, so we can cut the insurance budget, but in spite of all of this, we're paying a higher price than we should have. Instead of reimburseing clients as we have examples in foreign lands, the insurance companies decide to pay off interest. In fact, one insurance company is going to borrow some of the money. A respectable president. That's not acceptable. The self-employing team that ran out of national resources with unbridled greed has come back to its finish. [[The president calls.]] So shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u9	A respectable president. The socialisation of Iceland's Health Ministry and Haggis most recently showed that much in our society is developing in a positive way. It shows that there is a marked increase in social time between children and parents. In 2014, 63% of children aged 141⁄215 said that they often spend their time or that they always spend with their parents on weekends compared to less than 37% in 2006. The same development occurs with regard to extra-school association during the week. Many other interesting aspects of childhood life are found in social references, e.g. During 2014, a much higher proportion of children between 14 and 15 years of sports was regularly practiced than in 2006, or 39%. In recent years, children who claim to smoke one or more cigarettes a day have fallen significantly. At that time, child drunkenness is less frequent and fewer children have tested pots. As a whole, I love this result, but at the same time, this analysis tells me that it is important not to lose sight of the importance of prevention and that the interests of children and prevention are guided by a wide variety of decisions in society. The statistics also give clues as to what needs to be done better, and by others it is carefully observed. It has reduced smoking, but what about oral tobacco use? Do we not have to start measuring it and working to prevent it? Despite positive developments, we cannot be content that nearly 40% of children regularly engage in sports at the end of high school. My experience tells me that at the beginning of high school, physical activity continues to decline. At the same time, the surgeon general's advice is that all youths engage in moderate or difficult exercise for at least 60 minutes every day. Farmers, sports companies, and the state must cooperate better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u10	Mr. President. The economy has now produced its preliminary results for the development of land production in quarter of the past year, 2015. Of course, these figures confirm that there is an excellent progress in our economy as many of our concerns arise there; signals and signs of a lack of balance, which, of course, cause the growth of the business balance. It is certainly so that during Q4 2015, the export increased by 10% compared to the same quarter of the previous year, while the full import increased by 20%. Of these, growth of goods was 9%, while growth in goods was more than 30%. There are old warning signs of danger when the economy is getting out of hand. If not for the adventurous growth of tourism and a lot of involvement in service transactions, Iceland would be having a very familiar problem in this situation. In the second place, the Habitat makes up its figures for the development of national production in 2011 and adds up in 2015 at four quarters of the year. Here, too, are fascinating results. There's damage at the top. No more than usual house - to - house prime minister, for it confirms that during the past three years, economic growth averaged more than 2.5%. The highest number in these documents is 4.4% interest in 2013. V.E.G. The prime minister may now begin to stop feeling sorry for the fact that he has taken up a particularly bad farm and that everything has been fully improved since he began, for he is still going to reach the peak of 2013, which he is not able to accomplish. These figures and a review of economics development during the latter part of the last terms confirm the rapid recovery and the success that had already been achieved in working Iceland out of its difficult times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u11	A respectable president. Thus, despite being a spokesman for the private enterprise, 330 of you are limited. human society. As long as I can remember, cab drivers have been the most needed servant of the nation. They're public goods, and to me they are part of the good public transport in the country. They are now being picked up by illegal black activity. A respectable president. So - called harpoons offer their services on a cover page, a black market. It advertises the ride between parts of town, and when I was invited to visit this site the other day, an advertisement could be read: I have 12 colds in my car. Then came the phone number and location of the car. [[Up front.]] Then there's a plan that we're going to have to get an exposé from the Uber cab company. As far as I'm concerned, that operation of every sort in my life is very subtle, to say the least. A respectable president. Should we watch such black activity in front of our nose? Is it not enough that we are going to fill here every store full of booze? Rather, we are offered the world's end - of - time service every weekend for people? [[Up front.]] Has it not become too much of a good thing? At least they'll need the ice and the soda if this works. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I hereby challenge the police to do something about this matter. I know she's short-handed, but this is a matter that needs to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u12	A respectable president. The government buys and even develops a variety of software, both ready and custom. At times, he is bought from companies on markets, but quite often, software is designed specifically for the various institutions of the state. There is the term open software, in English in English accolades. The software is closed against the software. An open software is in far more general use than many can see, both among professionals in the computer sector and among players. Probably the most famous example of the widespread open software editor Firefox. Mac OS X operating system on Apple Computers is also based on open software, although much of the operating system itself is closed. The difference between open software and closed is mainly that open software is open to the public snout. It can be compared to an open accounting in front of closed books. Just as when it comes to opening accounting, there are some things to be especially concerned about loading code, but it is unavoidable that software is more transparent than closed. An open software has several advantages past the closed limit and gives an opportunity that can't be given by closed software. For example: Like an accountant who knows that the book is open, a developer will likely be more aware that the code will be open to criticism. Second, amateurs and students who learn programming or so can learn from the code. Interestors can suggest reforms or suggest code improvement suggestions. The activity of the software can be verified among players. Sometimes I wish the bank calculators were open, so often I don't quite understand how they work. There are good democratic reasons for setting rules or even laws on how state software should be used to determine whether the software is open or closed. A respectable president. In the United States, there are examples of such obligations. Therefore, in view of all of this, I suggest that any software that the state develops or buys usually a customized price.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u13	President. I'm going to get to bring some repeated material. This is the case with the matter of being a member of the Parliamentary Committee. The Constitution Committee never meets. There are a lot of cases to fix about the internal organization in this institution. Despite the fact that a convergence committee regularly met to review some integration issues that would have to be considered, there are no meetings at the Parliamentary Committee. This is the main reason why there seems to be only one subject on the conference committee and whether there are ways to stop a debate. Of course, there are many other things to be discussed by the Constitution committee. The importance of the meetings, for example, has repeatedly been discussed in committees I have been given so that if they are not able to get access to the meetings, which have been written on what will happen in the meeting and what will be presented, they will be allowed to have access to them. There's complete and complete transparency at every committee job at the council, and I don't think it's acceptable. The invention is not to be recorded so that you can let someone else be found, and secretaries are unique, not senators. So I have to challenge my other members on the Senate Committee to pressure a president to start a regular meeting on the Committee so that we can make some changes before this election season ends. President. I challenge the chairman of a committee to assemble a Senate committee so that we can review all the counts that arise every day at committee meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u14	A respectable president. A designist plant has started again with a beautiful program. The designers and artists present themselves to show the results of their work and share their vision with us. Design and creative articles are central to the development of the Icelandic industry, and in this hall there is much talk about increasing the variety of employment. All too often, however, it becomes evident that those who speak that way merely remember more of the fortresses and larger branches. They too have had little understanding of what creative articles are and seem to view them as some kind of father who's been so good at it. This is incomprehensible why no further emphasis has been placed on promoting creative articles on the land. There are countless analyses of how good an investment it would be for society to contribute, for example, to a competitive fund of creative ideas and to promote all creative factors. An example of how a progressive policy in these areas has contributed much wealth to the community and has moved economic growth is seen in Sweden. A bright future took the initiative during the last term to come into anti-investment policy here at the council, where contributions were greatly increased for creative purposes. It shows the mind of the government, these old-fashioned gangs, to creatively that one of the first things the government did was blow this plan off with no moisture. It's still in the same print. It stands to agree here at the council with a completely meaningless policy in new investors from the highest level. Industrial Minister, where the old emphasis on energy - consuming industry is on. Worse yet, there is no mention in creative articles. In these matters, a respectable president, it's who's in charge. A bright future sends greetings to people in creative fields and wishes the people of the country to congratulate everyone on Hannah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u15	A respectable president. I'd just like to discuss the agricultural laws that we'll expect to be discussing at the council after Easter. There are some things that we will need to change and, in fact, can have a positive effect on the future of agriculture in Iceland. That is one of the principles I would like to consider. When animal protection laws were adopted at the General Assembly, an article was dismissed or canceled, assuming that public agricultural payments could fall if a strong man or a farmer broke the law on animal protection, i.e. People who did not stand up at the same time could not accept strength from the State. This law was then removed somehow because it was spoken of as making changes in farm shape so that it could pass through. So now we'll have the opportunity to make these changes. A meeting with the legislature committee, where we were meeting agrienvironment schemes. A representative from Iceland's Farm Group. Then I asked if they could see any resistance that the General would make these changes in order to ensure increased animal protection and success in Iceland. I just thought they were kind of positive. Yet, you are always afraid, even if you have a positive interest stake, since traditionalism can be read in many places. I think it's important to draw attention to this and that when the law comes to the council, we'll be aware of it, to make sure that there's a limit to farm payments that are available to animals, or simply to cut them off.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u16	Madam President. The idea now grows so far as to start a national park in the middle of Iceland. During the days, I attended a very interesting and pleasant conference held in the Harpa on this important subject. This week the declaration of will was signed by a number of nature protection organizations and the outdoor and outdoor activities of the material. The Internet is a collection of signatures to support the idea, and it can be said that these have been very good. This suggests that at present there is a conquistador at the council proposal from a council of greens, which assumes the formation of a national park in the central highlands. I think this is an ideal opportunity for the council to accept the growing support for this idea in the community and try to make it a common matter at the council. We'll discuss this on the Environment and Transport Committee. The reviews have been very positive. It's a kind of valuable creation that I think we at the council could encourage. What a misunderstanding it is that the park's establishment in this way means that the site will have been permanently shut down with its potential for development and implementation. It is mainly a form of efficiency that involves specific products development, opportunities for rural development, opportunities for the people in the remote areas of the country to take advantage of the instruments of national government. This is a very good idea. Similarly, it is long time for us to discuss it in this room and in this field that it is necessary to establish a single national parkal organization that will govern national parks in the country. Now we have three national parks, all of whom are subject to different governments, and that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u17	V.E.G. President. Yesterday they were thrilled to learn that the Ministry of Education confirmed to the arms-thrusted local council that a two - year experiment would be initiated on a two - year experiment in cooperation between the High School of Highland at Lyla and Armouring over the U.S. O.A., before the first year on weapons. How important it is for young people who intend to go to higher school to spend one year at home! For the very end of ten years, the Lagi High School has cooperated with Thors Harbor in the same way that it has been very successful, the students there have been attending local studies at Thors Haveta, but at least once a month have attended the Lavas and stayed there for a week under professional instruction, while in other respects they have had their teachers at the Thors Harbor and have been on their telecommunications at the Lullum. This is vital for these young ones and for their parents, who have funds to accomplish this work. I would like to represent us in the Northeast standard, but all members of the Parliament have been working on this and supporting that this may become a reality, thanking the Minister of Education for confirming that this study can start in the fall and that the school of the Lava can begin to work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u18	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee on Professional Affairs, with a change in bill to legalize the change of the law for a particular price due to the non-secures of marine forces, No. 37/1992, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Baldur P. Erlingsson, Erna Jónsdóttir and Hinrik Greipsson, frá the atvinnuvega of - og Development and Friðrik Friðriksson and Steinar Ingi Matthíasson from the European Union of the European Union. The bill suggests a definition of what constitutes an unsalvable sea level on a scale of 1 mg. 1st par. track No. 37/1992 will be extended. The current legislation states that the following forces of the sea are bad for good: at first, the marine power beyond the catch of a fishing vessel. Secondly, the power of the sea, obtained without a warrant for a 2 mg fishing permit. 7. the law on fishing in Iceland's Fishland weekend, No. 79/1997 are available, which includes specific permission of the Fish Room for preventing local over-use of certain strains, abnormal levels of species other than fish or other undesirable effects of fishing. Third, the force of the sea that's 2nd. 7. track No. 37/1992 corresponds to the fact that if a fish living room shows that the efficacy, processing, or sale of a person on sea level or from it is beyond what it buys or supplies. In 1st. The bill is also suggested to be considered unscheduled as the sea power beyond the maximum concentration of a fishing vessel in a manner other than a catch or a hook point given outside a permit fishing date, with illicit fishing tools, or in an area where a fishing vessel is banned, as well as a sea power that does not reach the minimum size laid on law, government decrees, or special fishing courses. What a-a-team 1st. In view of this, the Commission points out that because of overauthority given within a particular period of time, deforestation has long been permitted to correct the state of its resources, according to 1 mg. 14th par. track No. 57/1996, for example, about the association of crops in the sea, the committee considers the nonsalaried sea forces to be just the power beyond the authority of the past. In the c-authority, sea forces obtained outside the allowed date of hunting are considered unscheduled. The committee adds to the cane, separating natural resources from nonstatutory sea forces. So the article says that unless you use natural resources, the non-employable force of water is unsurpassed. Because of the obligation to land all fish that are discovered, some of the labors may be under certain lengths or weight limits, so to speak, but the rules for sub- proverbs are found in Regulation No. 600/2015, about professional fishing. In the 9th. The Regulation is instructed that underline must be counted only half to the source. It has been tried to contribute to subheated forces rather than to being cast out. The change of the F- team 1st. The bill fights against this idea and the main argument behind the rules of law No. 57/1996, with regard to the association of crops in the sea, and with the opinion that the Committee has the power to encourage the spread of all sea forces, including subpowers, and to make it an unregistered sea forces that need to be paid for or that can be absorbed. So the committee suggests that F- teams 1st par. The bill will be removed. At the same time, the Committee points out that in the E team it is recommended that marine forces obtained in an area where the fish is forbidden to be considered nonstatutory and must be considered sufficient for the protection of young fish. Kristján L. Möller and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson were away at the hearing. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: We're on 1st. a. In addition, c- space: unless you have a normal level of resources. b. F's dropping away. Under these writings of Jón Gunnarsson, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglur, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, and Björt Ólafsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u19	A respectable president. As the president mentioned, we decided to return one committee party in two cases, one for the change in local water supply laws, No. 32/2004, as well as changes in the edification and control laws, No. 9/2009. The aim of changing the law on the farm is to trust better the foundation of the remuneration of the water supply and the reserve for the services it provides. It is suggested that, as has been the case, the collection of the fees is based on views of services. (b) What questions will be considered in the next article? The source of the bill can be attributed to three court decisions in case of No. 396/2013, 397/2013 and 613/2013. I'm just gonna tore up the Supreme Court. We felt that they were lacking in a more detailed discussion of them in a series of billworks. The Supreme Court's Court in case of No. 396/2013 was the case with water taxing on specific property and also took the currency to a garage owned by property, even though it had not been associated with a water supply. The Supreme Court counted with regard to wording 1 mg. Section 6. the law of a rural body, which includes collecting water costs from all property that can be enjoyed by water; also for older laws defined as terms of water tax paid for services; and for the sake of a bill that became a law of rural society, that water was a fee but not a tax. Therefore, the payment should be in accordance with general view of the pressures of services. In fact, the price would be paid only to the extent that he would receive a ministry that would correspond to the payment. So it was thought that unless connected with water, water would be dropped, the currency would be imposed because of the garage. The Supreme Court's Court in case of No. 397/2013 was the case with the fact that by the time it was incarcerated, it had been placed on a certain property. The beginning of the currency was aimed at the possibility of building a building stage enjoying water, cremation. Case one. 1.mg. Section 6. Fixing local carp water. However, until some time later, the Water Force was not linked with the property, leading the Supreme Court with reference to the general principle of the stress of services that were not submitted until a connection was made so that the payer could enjoy the services paid. Court of the Supreme Court No. 613/2013 was the case with the fact that the collection fee had been placed on a property set up on Akrelin, a part of the property was linked to the ECU of Reykjavík, which placed a accounts fee on property. Part of it was linked to a special irrigation system that allowed sewage to go into the lagoon, which had been built as two wells cleaning the sewage out of the system before it went into the lagoon. In the court of the court it was felt that there would be a fee according to the terms of services and that the fee would be paid only to the extent of their services. Therefore, it was considered forbidden to deposit a release charge on non-employment centres of the ECU. The primary projection is to respond to these judgments in an attempt to create a better connection between the currency and the service rendered, and that there will be no adoption until it has completed its obligation to have a service available to the currency. It is thus suggested that the fees remain in the form of services and, in fact, remain unchanged from today's values. In bill to legalize law change of law No. 9/2009 is suggested to collect all property accounts in the area where there is a connection to the site. As determined by the currency, the service is available when a connection is established to the target range. As shown by the bill, the structure and management of important matters of loyalty are contained. It would be contrary to the law's objective if the owners and the managers of real estate were allowed to choose whether and how to connect with an existing irrigation system and are fired on the basis of the private rights of the rural society, such as 9 mgr. Section 4. The law. In bill to legalize the law of law No. 32/2004 is suggested as a means of collecting water costs has been linked to human activities and will start with it regardless of how currency interests the distribution of water within its own real estate. According to the Commission it must be a matter of the fact that remuneration is permitted on the one hand when the water department has been linked to property, instead of aiming at a set level of buildings, regardless of whether the water groups were actually connected, and it is permitted to collect irrigation fees as a connection to irrigation's limits to real estate. In this way, the currency of the direct and grammatical relationship with the services provided and prevents it from starting earlier is also to bear in mind the rich public interests of the water department and the reserves and are discussed in the comments made by the primary projections. It is proper to discuss only the limitations involved in focusing the amount of services on real-estate assessment. A service fee must be reflected in a consistent way as to the amount of service that the fee is intended to accomplish. It must be set up specifically in the law if the price is intended to be met by other related costs. This is true in 4 mg. bill to legalize the law of No. 32/2004, that water costs are intended to deliver water management, including financial costs and planned stock costs, as well as costs to ensure adequate water and water pressure for fire management. Both primary projections suggest that the rate of the total real estate value should be expressed, but not above 0.5% of its total value. Then there is a special rule in the absence of an assessment price of real estate, and the exception that the owner or manager of real estate may request that the currency take account of the lack of geographic and technical reasons for having access to water or irrigation. In that case, the benets, cultivated land, and other special real estate rights, which are part of real estate, shall be the exception of the pressures of remuneration if they make up a substantial part of the prices. The purpose of these rules is that the laying of the currency is closely linked to services provided and to ensure the best means for currency. Clearly, there will not be a complete link between the amount of service paid and the amount required when the fee is determined in this way. To achieve that goal, for example, the use of all real estates would have to be measured. The committee concluded that this route had been investigated, but because of the high cost of making a statement in all the real estates, it was not considered a reasonable way, as it would result in a higher price. However, real estate assessments include a general objective standard of action to take into account the exceptions mentioned above and the general interest in the operating systems. This committee also points out that in areas where real - estate evaluations are very variable, it is permitted to divide territory into a special currency for each area. The Commission suggested that minimum fees according to the number of square meters and never more than 80 square meters, must be determined as well as regular. In this way, it would be permitted to set the rate higher than at least 0.5% of the total ownership value. This could be the case in cases where two real estates have the same function as using water or evaporation, but a variety of real - estate assessments. The work being done at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Environmental and Resource Ministry on the project of the bill was not determined to be the extent to which the rule was intended. Because the committee does not have such information, it is not necessary to agree with the proposal. This committee also suggests that in the case of industrial emissions, as indicated by 2 mg. 14th par. track No. 9/2009, the rate may exceed 0.5% of the total weight. As mentioned earlier, services are one means by the government to finance a legal project. Embrace through taxes is another way. Different requirements depend on terms of services and taxes. Taxation has generally been defined as payment, usually as a payment of money, which must be paid to the public by certain groups of individuals or lawyers on the one side of the government's decision by the general physical standards, without a special government fee. Taxation clearances need to meet the 77 st. and after the events of 2 mg. 78th par. The constitution. In this way taxation warrants the tax service of a certain group, tax stock and currency, or otherwise the rules for the calculation of the tax. Service fees have been defined as payment, usually paid by money, which must be paid by individual or legal groups to the public or others who are authorized to receive it for the special payment provided. The fee is intended to cover in part or entirely the cost of pay. Therefore, need to be a direct link between the currency, the services they receive instead, and the arrangements that can be set out for them. Of all the information presented here, the Committee suggests that the bills will be agreed on as unchanged. It was approved on March 9. Anyone who thinks so is soft. The members of Hödgith the Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, president and spokesman, Katrín the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, Einarsson, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Son of Zoghis, son of Svavarsdóttir, Róbert Marshall, Vilhjálmur of the Árnason, while Elín Hirst and Ásta Guðrún, the daughter of Helgadóttir, were absent in payment of the matter. This is one of the issues that in themselves are not political controversial. This is simply an explanation of the rules that have, unfortunately, led to the fact that real estate owners have been compelled to consult the Supreme Court on their rights. In this area, this has been a level of justice. These are issues that are directed to citizens of society. So I think it's necessary for the bills to be accepted. This means the destruction of rights and further refinement of laws. I propose that the General approval of the bills as they are and that we have our opinion and the report provided by the prime project.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u20	V.E.G. President. We'll deal with bills on water supply and waste. These are small but extremely important issues. We define this service as a basic service. Sadly, there have been a measure of conviction about these matters that we hope to handle here in order to be acceptable. I'm at the Committee and thank those who worked with us on the Environment and Transport Committee. I would like to slant a few points and try to explain others. We're trying to ensure a better connection between the pay being collected by the host system that is related to our human activation, securing a link between the expenditure and the use. As one authority said in a committee party, it is clear that this service does not become a perfect bond because we do not measure it directly, we are not setting up a list. It has been decided not to go that way, for that would greatly increase the cost. It has been said that setting up water measurements for every structure can cost up to two billion. It is taken out of no pockets except for the people who own the manpower. These two bills are similar, and it is attempted to achieve the same goal. Yet, they differ in nature. I'd like to try to explain just the difference between what duties are involved; one of those who put water into buildings and the other, the one who cleans up the workers. Necessary hosts supplying water into buildings do not escape land limits. It is mandatory to bring a household nerve and connect it to the water supply. In most cases, the domestic property of the hosts is the one that deposits it. It seems to me that there's a more obvious difference between the two of us. It's already the host business has put water not only to weights but also to the home nerves and linked them to the water supply. However, in the runoff, it is the responsibility of the hosts to set the limits or to enter the boundaries. The payload will begin when this obligation is met. On the one hand, there's talk of a water squad linking up with a building that I'd like to destroy, that's why, i.e. when the work has been linked, and, on the other hand, it is said that shelters to remove waste have been added to the borders. Well, it seems to me that the bills, however not built at any level of construction, will be able to collect these charges of waste. Is that fair or not? This is certainly a cost to the income, including the cost of stock. If a land owner is waiting a long time to build up on his property, that cost, including the cost, could be expected. budgets and cost of stock costs are reduced by this time. This may not be fair to anyone, but I hope that the bills will destroy the rights. The Supreme Court court has said that the open garage does not enter the service fee, but it is the will of the Lawgiver and of us who are on the committee's list that it is, i.e. that free garage is part of real estate - I don't really know the legal definition of these property - so that a garage will not be exempt from water and evasive charges, as it would be relatively easy to connect a garage or equivalent to water or irrigation. It is impossible to monitor such factors, whether they have been connected or have been deactivated. However, the primary projection has the authority to request that certain shares of real estate, garage, or storage showers or other items be excluded from these services. We were worried that if we didn't try to take in this part of the workers, people might suddenly say, " Well, my living room isn't connected to water or sewage, why should I pay for it? ' So here it is to ensure that all human resections are being taken, and to try to secure and support these expenditures. I don't think I've got it any further, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u21	Mr. President. I recommend the General and Education Committee's Committee on a proposal to conduct a day dedicated to the education of children's human rights. The commission says, with permission of the president: ▪ The Commission has discussed the matter and studied the comments received when discussing the matter at the 144th legislature (Yech. 397). The proposal is now reassigned. The Council of Parliamentary Directive is to hide the Minister of Ministers of State in consultation with Education and Culture to promote that November 20th, the date of the children's covenant will each year be devoted to the education of children in the schools of the country. All reporters were positive to the content of the synonym and pointed to the motion of the synonym. That children's rights education is important is being shared in their activities in the schools of the country. The committee agrees with these views and points out that individuals need to know their rights in order to enjoy and protect them. It is the opinion of the Committee that it is necessary to emphasize the presentation and instruction of the United Nations Children's Covenant and to mention that such educational days are already being done, including. for training on Icelandic and Icelandic languages. It is the opinion of the Committee that it is important to increase the knowledge of the rights and duties of children by highlighting the presentation and education in general on human rights in the community and especially in the schools of the country. Such education must be part of general school work, and it is intertwined in various ways. The suggestion is part of promoting an important presentation and training of the children's covenant. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir was away at the hearing, but under the opinion of the printed material at the time. The members of the council, Konráðsdóttir Congisdótttir, the daughter of Hrafn, the Gunnarsson of Ólína, the Líneik Árnason Þorvarðardóttir, Einarsson-gahön, Helgi. A respectable president. We've talked about the rights and responsibilities of children here at the council. The members of this case fill the group of members of the General Assembly of Children, who have tried to work on or present in various matters, wherever possible, in our activities at the council. That's one part of it. It has been found that Icelandic children have limited knowledge of their rights and, at times, as well as their responsibilities and are not really aware, as explained in the case, the difference between rights and rights. Of course, not everyone does, but this has been so many times and in many places. We have emphasized the importance of children's ability to communicate on the peer background as soon as they receive progressive instruction. It is an important step that we create opportunities to increase the knowledge of students and children of their rights and to strengthen them in every way possible so that they can appear and express themselves as they become active members of society in the conversation. The 25 - year anniversary of the children's covenant was celebrated on November 20, 2014. This was the beginning of the formation of this group of members of Congress. We were then asked that it might be a good thing to move here at the council. Surely we senators and I are pleased that we will expect this to be done. But it is important that all who work with children wherever they are, not only in school but in many other parts of the world, but in whatever educational work possible for young ones, with adults, be there to inform children about human rights and give children the opportunity to speak. In these days, a suggestion was being made that should be taken a little over at the syllabus, i.e. I'm putting human rights in there. I think that's a good idea. But it's important that this applies everywhere, not just in the school system. We need to draw attention to this and know if we can better communicate it. I'm not gonna have any more comments on this. This is quite clear, and I really hope that the proposal will soon be accepted here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u22	A respectable president. I come up to thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for quick reflexes and management in this case. It was submitted to the last assembly and was then properly prepared for release, but it landed above the park and below the voters of the state, so fine, but I remember the first time we met, members of the Children at the General Assembly, and discussed these very matters. Then this idea arose for me and was accepted by the others, to do this day, November 20, that the day of human rights in the schools of the country where children made the children's covenant higher, although it is my firm opinion that this should be discussed every day in the schools of the country, intertwined into all other studies. But this is a good start and step toward introducing this remarkable, one of the most important and remarkable covenants ever made in human history at my judgment. Despite the fact that all jobs and people in society are important, I believe that children are the most important group in society because they will inherit the land. We're not supposed to let anyone go to raise them in close touch with their rights and, like, their rights. A senator came in earlier, knowing the difference between privilege and rights. It's a slight failure, but it's such a part of teaching them how to cope with life and build a good society. As we know, education is primarily about it. The big question is, Do we want our children to be good or to learn? Of course, we want them both to be. This, however, is part of the fact that children are aware of their duties and rights and can bring them into the community and spread everywhere. One of the things was said when this contract was legalized was being made, it should be very widely and well presented in the community so that everyone could recognize it, not just children, but adults who often do not seem to know exactly what their rights and duties are. I'll be happy to join you. I'll join you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir that the case will be agreed so that the next November 20 will be the first day of the children's covenant to be put on high ground to become the first step or step in furthering this instruction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u23	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, but mostly to celebrate. I also feel that on this occasion it is worth noting that, as some say in the West and beyond, justice does not mean anything without knowing it. That is a key premise that we can use our rights to make us very aware of who they are. It means nothing more than starting children in that regard. As far as I'm concerned, Icelandic culture has not come from a rights culture. We have experienced emphasis on rights, human rights, mainly because of foreign influences. It is as if of many other things, I think, by the small size of the nation, by its isolation, and simply by the historical context that varies from nation to nation. But there is no deep cultural consciousness of some kind of slavery that needed to be settled, slavery, or something similar. It is not even a profound cultural awareness in my opinion of the living room, but it was a total horror. In fact, we should be teaching in elementary schools, in my opinion, something we should regret. Likewise, the treatment of people throughout the years that we are really just talking openly about. I think that as a community, we have not looked at quite enough on our own when it comes to various rights, including the lack of prejudice toward minorities and the like. Although it is easy to be prejudiced in a society where everyone is basically the same, everyone comes from some Viking Christian family, more or less like that. Of course, it has changed over the past few decades, fortunately, that's a great development. But that means that the sense of rights in Icelandic culture is not as strong as we may think it is. So I welcome this matter and believe alone that the best way or anything is to ensure future rights is that we bring our children up with the fundamental assumption that they have the right, not just the right, but the right that cannot be given but that they are taken away only by a man.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u24	Mr. President. We continue a discussion in which last night's bill was turned away to legalize gambling halls. It seems to each of us, as in so many others. I am one of the senators who is very opposed to the ideas or will that are presented there to build a playing halls with the law that such activity is legally carried out, i.e. to legalize authorization of gambling halls. In my opinion, there are many reasons why Iceland and I should not follow the path of offering such a thing. Do we want to be Las Vegas or Monaco North? No, I don't want to see Iceland evolve that way. This was shown in the case of a 1st transporter official, w. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, said that this was an excellent addition to recreation for tourists. We know that the surveys that have been conducted have shown that tourists come mainly to Iceland because of nature, over 80% of the tourists are coming here because of the nature of the country. I don't think there's any reason why me and the Icelanders are chasing down to the halls of a casino to get their hands on or attract the kind of tourists, or to offer them on the side of a conference, I don't think it's necessary. Of course, there are other activities that you can think of that are more frequent than not around a foreign casino, prostitution, even an underground mantel and various forms of crime that seem to occur more often than not, although there are exceptions. The bill refers to 21 years of age and older as allowed access to planned casinos. We are well - acquainted with the problems that many today face, gambling. Gambling is a serious social ill, and you may expect about 12 of you. Icelanders have some form of pathological gambling. It's been said that of them, you may have a 46.5. between 16 and 20 years of age. I don't think that makes it any better. We have legalized using machines that have been profited by fellow organizations. We know the current regular lotteries, and they are legal, but they do not need to put up with the problem, the problem of compulsive gamblers, by establishing legal gambling. I think it's as ridiculous as selling alcohol in public stores. Surely this is a bit on the same book, that freedom should be of course, no thought of the consequences, not about human beings, social consequences, or public health. I think this work is against public health in the country. I understand that this government has it in its policy, in its contract, to work on increasing public health in the country, and I can't see that the law of casinos is a step in that direction. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, yesterday. It stated that today there are several underground gambling clubs that the state does not earn from them and that it is good to bring the work to its surface and that it would benefit. On the contrary, I feel that the state is supposed to tighten the rules and take more seriously the work that exists and not say, "It's going to work, and then we'll just legalize it. We could say that there are a lot of other things that are in a gray area, and we may not want to see a bot in the country, that it is best to legalize it no matter what nonsense it is. There may be a number of difficulties in preventing gambling and gambling, and it may be unstable to think that such activities will ever be removed, but we can do this just as we have decided to be illegal and work to keep them as low as possible and to supply the tools that the state has. This too has been brought to the fore. paritaprevir An internal minister of Jónasson's son in the last term gave a bill with a detailed long - term plan on how to handle the gambling threat and certainly ruined the lives of many individuals and families. I think most people know some cases of serious gambling problems. The idea with the bill was to build a game of gambling and eventually move it into an arrangement that would not be as harassed as in the second place of allowing limitation in the hands of the national network. This bill did not succeed. I don't think it's a good idea that we didn't get paid here, because we're not supposed to give up the consequences of gambling and illegal gambling that happen both in the underground economy, if you can put it that way, and on the Internet. Iceland and I are often shy about being different. We often indicate that this is allowed in Denmark and that the world around us sees things as normal. But isn't it okay that we're not exactly like everyone else in the stuff like this if we don't feel that this makes Iceland more attractive or better for life, but is it more likely to add to the problem of gambling? I hope this case has some good reviews and that they will see that we are there taking a very big step from what was normal in Iceland, which is not to allow gambling. We'll take a very big step if this bill is approved. It may look innocent and as if it were primarily for the sake of recreation for tourists all year long. You can watch them with glasses, and you can't look at any side effects or what we call on them. As I said in the beginning, I don't think Iceland should decorate itself with the feathers of being able to offer casinos like the biggest ones we know and the image of casinos, like in Las Vegas and in Monaco. No one can tell me that, around it, there are not going to be many activities that we are not attracted to, such as criminal activity, prostitution, prostitution, and other things that do not mean to close our eyes to follow the operation and that we constantly fight and use all means of preventing. I'm afraid the weakest group in the world will ever become a customer of the casinos. I heard you say something. The speaker said that individuals could ask for the casino that they would be on the ban list. I don't quite see how it actually works. Would it be effective for alcoholics to ask for workers in the liquor store to be put on a restricted list? I think it's a great dream to think it works as such. The bill describes the use of instruments for compulsive gamblers to be used and used against them by preventive and otherwise. Why make a problem more difficult and then contribute more money to prevent the problem that will arise if the problem can be eased by not legalizing such activity? It should rather place further restrictions and clear legal restrictions and the authority of the police to keep what is currently going on with the machines and the gambling allowed today, perhaps not to be said that way, but sorting things and other activities allowed today, to cover the strict framework and to do all that can be done to prevent gambling. Of course, what is on the Internet today is an entire jungle and not for ordinary people who do not know the world to realize how the jungle really is and how all the mines can be taken away in an instant. I hope that the common sense of reason is heard both in the General and out of society, that this is not the addition to the community we need in these times, but on the contrary, and that we are not eager to get tourists here who think this is what they need to spend their time in Iceland, but is the natural nature of Iceland that attracted them to it. We need to build wood and make the land ready to take on increased tourist currents.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u25	A respectable president. I have to say one thing in a speech. Senator; I see no special need for card halls. I don't see any special need for this bill. I have my criticism of the bill I'll be following. But I have to explain to myself that what I feel like about this case and the drinking that we sometimes talk about is that I have the most important support when I hear its opposers speaking, because the presentation is clearly defined by what we speak. A senator may consider himself a subject, i.e. "Transomism." There is a difference between thinking about people and caring for people. It seems that the compromise is basically defined by the fact that people are not trustworthy in doing this or doing it and that it is not safe to do so. Of course, some things can happen to you in society. Counts 'em out. A senator's role is to ensure that nothing is allowed in the country that could endanger anyone? Is that the attitude? If so, I just want less of it. In a liberal Western society, so - called Western democracies, life is not just a matter of loyalty, it is also about freedom. It matters. There's not some leftover size that people's brains are always supposed to drum because if we go in that direction, there won't be any freedom left. It's just that most or very much in the least that's fun is also dangerous. There is no contradiction there. This does not mean that we should shut down anything that is harmful in any way. I have to be especially critical about whether everything here is going to turn out to be like in Las Vegas or Monaco. A respectable president. There are not only cities in the world where gambling palaces are permitted. Why is that? Not a senator with Helsinki or Toronto on the list? Is this to be as awesome as in Helsinki? As fearful as in Toronto? What's wrong with you? A senator seems to me to undermine the cause of those who disagree. Then I reiterate, a respectable president, I'm not even totally in favor of the case myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u26	Mr. President. Yeah, the same freedom can be the death of another one, that's just the way it is. Of course, in a civilized society, we set aside many rules, both moral and legal, that we then work with and would like to cooperate. In case there's a ideological problem. The senator would be open to one thing about such matters, that we would not stop at anything or anything, and would have no prevention, everything that begins with pre-; custody, prevention, and so on -- of course, we can stretch it all out. But somehow a community gathers on certain rules, on what it may have, so that society is the best, and that it thrives on a good human life and that humans do not do what others do, and so on. Play halls are one of the things I don't think are needed. It doesn't mean they have to be there. We have been able to enjoy an excellent life in Iceland without such opportunities. I feel like it's a demeaning thing to talk so that if something like that is allowed in Toronto, Helsinki, or any city, it's a self-condent thing that we have to drag it up here to our island, it has to be offered here. It's okay that things aren't available around here that's offered elsewhere. There's nothing dangerous about it. We can only decide it as a community and live a good life here. I don't see much need to legalize a casino in Iceland. Pirats may well see a great need for that. Then they'll just have to explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u27	A respectable president. I told him last year I couldn't agree. A senator says I didn't see the need for card halls. That's what I said. I'm gonna pray. A senator doesn't suggest that I see the need for such things when I've said very clearly that I don't see them. For me, it's not just about needs. I just don't think that it should be allowed only in human society that is needed. I think life is more and more important than that. Hv. A senator here mentioned that freedom alone can be the death of another person. Of course it can be, but is that the result of this bill? No. Let's talk about it. In principle, a senator found that people cannot trust themselves with these cards. It's not against rights. By allowing someone else to enter a gambling hall or to run one of these. It's not the kind of freedom that controls someone else's freedom. This is simply not such a kind of freedom. Likewise, the answer reflects why. Furthermore, a senator's tendency to be always exaggerating the issue of his opponent and moving to such extremes that he no longer seems to be the person who stands for it. A senator criticizes. I didn't say everything was allowed. I just don't think it's honest, with perfect respect for what's happened. A senator, acting like I or any man was saying that. The bill has enormous restrictions on the function. The reason? Transporters themselves do not believe that everything should be allowed or that things should be like this in Las Vegas or Monaco. It's supposed to be obvious, more dignified president. I think it undermines the cause of why. A senator always exhibites an exaggerated image and then criticizes it. That's what they call a straw. Also, I have to say that I'm just upset that this is where I say it. Senator I am also opposed to prevention. The main element of prevention is this and when it comes to the alcohol bill. All of my language on the alcohol bill has shown that, I believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u28	Mr. President. I'm impressed. A senator is unduly sensitive to what I said in my talk. Of course, I'm pulling out the other side, just like the other side. A senator points out that such things should not be banned, although such things may not be necessary. Of course, I will highlight in my case the negative aspects of this matter. Right away. A senator says that it doesn't harm anyone to have one, if not more, it only damage family policy in Iceland, we know that there are about 12 thousand compulsive gamblers in this country. When one person, more often than not, is a man who is also involved in playing his butt out of his pants and, in effect, mortgaged everything in his life, has lost his home, and more just because of what is now permitted about the machines, what would have been a major impact on family life? I'm not making it up to you. A senator, that is only a reality that can be illustrated. People who know about these things know that they are the truth. That is why I say, "We shall make a law that oppresses what has now been permitted." I'd love to forbid the machines that are now allowed, but we shouldn't begin to open the possibility that we're running a legal casino in the country. I think it's totally below every inch that we do it, and maybe it under cover of shelter that it's so good for the increase of tourism across the country. I want to set priorities differently and think for the people in the country who have gambling and have to work with their families.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u29	For that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Rafney Magnúsdóttir Rafaeldóttir for her speech. In fact, the talk made it clear that she was opposed to the idea, but then the lawsuit was very much concerned with the problem that really is called a gambling problem that can follow this activity. The most serious form of gambling is gambling. Face-to-face. Congressmen of Hrafn Hofns Gunnarsson and Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands reported that there were many games, in fact, no mention of the existence of this in Stockholm, i.e. in the kingdom of Sweden, because of what. A senator wants to keep a monopoly on alcohol, and because of it. A senator said that we didn't want here to be Las Vegas or the Monaco of the North by legalizing it. I'm going to repeat, as a reason that this is being legalized on the grounds of a permit unit. The same approach is being applied. A senator recommends the alcohol bill, a monopoly, in order to help control and counteract harmful influences and to use proben, a gambling problem is part of this. Not everyone who plays in that defined problem is finding it very difficult to control because it goes more and less out of law and law. At the same time, I would like to state that penalties are not being altered as to what future activity will remain illegal. There's a clear message with this bill on what's legitimate and what's not. Therefore, there is a much greater chance of monitoring the work, helping those who are in trouble, and having information about the real problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u31	Mr. President. There's a fundamental difference between us in this matter. It is very difficult to approach it, since it is better to keep this operation under official supervision and to have a work permit and everything depends on the law and the rules. Therefore, it is being prepared to be acceptable. I'm just not in favor of being allowed to do that. I can't agree with that because the state's alcohol trade has its own patents on its sale, it's growing to the point where the state should open it, legalize it, and have it run related to each other by allowing it to happen. I'm just not there in my language that I think it's a progressive step to do that. I admit the problem is there. As noted in the media recently, gambling has been uprooted by the police. Of course, it is very bad, and as with other laws, it must, of course, continue to work against them and to try as much as possible to prevent illegal activity. I just talk out of my conscience and my opinions, I think this kind of activity is destructive. I have to say it right now. Speaking of not all gambling addicts, they may not be at the beginning, but they will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u32	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna grab down to the last answer. That's what a senator's got to do with it. A senator is not there to be something that should be authorized and about the metaphor of monopoly, which is truly part of publicism. I'm gonna take an example from Sweden. Sweden defines gambling as public health, i.e. the part involved in a defined gambling problem is that about 2% of those involved in addiction are involved. It's about the same proportion as here, according to Daníel Ólafsson, the University of Iceland, has been found to be by asking questions. Although it is difficult to approach the subject accurately, it is the same percentage, even though in Sweden's public health policies, they are acting as monopolis, just as we do here on alcohol. So it's just part of public health policy looking that way despite that. The senator is not there. The point has been discussed, that we just don't need this, and that is, of course, the point. Why are we doing this? We have the bill trying to improve the scale of this operation. It may now be the key to this, that if we have the courage to deal with what is being done on the Internet, we can work against the activities that thrive in the underworld. We forbid it and just believe it doesn't exist. But let's take this in small steps and start over there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u33	Mr. President. Hv. A senator speaks of Sweden as identifying the part of casinos that turns to gambling as a public health problem. Of course, it's not weird. A gambler is a public health problem, but by establishing a legal casino, he is adding to the problem. Are we not talking about trying to reduce the gambling and gambling disorders that are certainly public health issues? Do we not counteract it by reducing the problem rather than by spiting on it? It is just being spitd in just as it is being done to deal with the problems of alcohol consumption by inviting alcohol to every store in the country. Here the problem is being improved, and it is detracting from its good aim to help people who are in such a crisis. Is it not proper to minimize the problem rather than increase it and then start working against it? I would have thought that it was a rather public health goal, such as the one involved in working on the sports movement with positive grounds for a young person's structure and a healthy life. I can't classify that it can be defined, there's no particular healthy way of living gambling. I can't understand that. But we what? A senator is not in the same position in this matter. Each one must have his own way. I'm just talking about different viewpoints and talking about how it's not good in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u34	V.E.G. President. I would like to get involved in this discussion. As you can see from this bill to legalize gambling halls, I am an associate with it, and I believe this to be a good goal, at least a good reason to have a discussion about how we want to see what we call gambling halls or casinos or other gambling activities, which certainly thrive in Iceland. Sadly, as discussed in the discussion, it is difficult to deal with. It thrives below the earth. It's banned. It's out of control. What is suggested in the bill, however, is that there will be a strict control of card palaces. It is not as if the discussion said that everything here is opening wide and making Las Vegas North. This operation depends on a strict management committee according to the authority and permission of a minister. Those who receive such permission need to meet all the requirements and regulations therefore otherwise there is a risk of losing the license. You will be able to set game rules for each card. We can limit the amount of cards available. We can influence the performance of the game. In a 22nd degree. Security and opening time are required in Article 23. If there were problems in such places, we could by law limit any type of alcohol use or other type of alcohol use. We are far from all of this today and far from being able to control gambling so that it will not become abnormal or at least reduce what we want to call abnormal gambling. I'm going to grab a few more articles on the bill and their name. It's against the gambling of employees and the receiving of donors from customers. One article explains that if a customer is suspected of gambling, he or she is obliged to assist or study counseling or treatments. There are long chapters on the surveillance and punishment of those who practice these activities. It will be put on a reserve and a special gambling tax. There I think is the key to our efforts to help those people who certainly have gambling problems. It doesn't matter whether this operation will be legalized in one place or whether it will thrive somewhere else; there will always be some who can't handle it when it comes to playing cards. That's where I think we're making the tools to help them. First, by our public and monitoring activities, we receive information that we can use to help people. Second, we get a reserve so that we can get people on appropriate resources, apart from the fact that this will make huge profits if we make those countries that have gone that way. I have briefly and quickly crossed this bill to legalize the halls of cards, but I have a few more thoughts. I'd like to read up the bill's target paragraph, i.e. The object of card palaces, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of these laws is to authorize gambling halls in Iceland based on the permission of the minister. Furthermore, the aim of these laws is to ensure that gambling activity in Iceland will be under official supervision, and it will be set up as a general law. This will help to promote responsible gambling in Iceland, to maintain a universal rule, and to inhibit harmful effects in the public. I think this is exactly the goal we should work on in one way or another regarding gambling. I think this is a very good first step. There's a lot of talk about the influence of tourism on this kind of activity, and I think it's true that this will have a positive effect on tourism. The Boston Consulting Group report on tourism in Iceland said that they needed recreation for older people. I think a lot of older people would take advantage of this in terms of conferences. But saying that they are entertainment. Cards are recreation and not just for tourists. This amount of recreation is getting bigger in Iceland. I reiterate that gambling halls are not just entertainment for tourists or entertainment for compulsive gamblers. It is also recreation for ordinary people who can handle it and who like to play such cards without putting their financial resources in trouble. But I'm not going to belittle the need, as I already have mentioned, to help people who get into trouble, and I think this is a device for them. I've only been through the rules today, so today it's under ban and in the matter of penalties. We have no tools to help people who are addicted to gambling. In the world today, there are about 20 million people, if I've had the right time, who play poker on the Internet. Maybe I'll come to the Internet later, but the bill won't deal with it. I wondered this morning that if I put money in a poker and played poker with other people, it would be gambling. If I put money in chess, it'd probably be gambling too. Today, money is played in soccer, and it is probably classified as gambling, but it's allowed. We are allowing that song to be gambled today. Other factors that would be classified as bingo and Lotto. There you can lose all your money by betting in Lotto. A respectable president. I have briefly studied the subject of the bill, and I think its goals are very good. We see in other countries that it has been better to try to work on the challenge of getting this activity to the surface. I'm going to use the last few minutes of my speech session to talk about playing on the Internet today. I've been given an introduction to the fact that there are several innovation companies in Iceland, some Icelandic genius, who are developing and designing bets and for poker. This company has to move its activities out of the country because it's forbidden here. These are companies that are going to be extremely powerful. There's a lot of money in this. Instead of allowing these companies to be Icelandic, we can download information and benefit from their activities, we send them out of the country and lose both their income and their information. Just a little bit more because it was mentioned here yesterday by reason of what happened. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir that she would like to see that the Icelandic company had this kind of card on the Internet. That's where I couldn't agree with her. But how do we get there? How can we allow the Icelandic company to operate this kind of activity, e.g. Pokers or book pages in sports or what they are, without allowing it? I can see that the monarchy of the state at gambling palaces could be the first step in trying to control somehow this round and this huge amount of money that people bet on foreign pages, that it not just goes out of the country but that we can see the extent and try to control it. But the biggest question in this and the biggest problem is probably the Internet corruption because we have few resources there and most of the other people pass by the rules. I'm gonna stop here, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u35	A respectable president. We'll discuss gambling halls as some names of casinos. For example, there is a secondary point in my opinion as to the use of a label, that is the nature of the case. I would like to say at the outset that at this point I'm not in favor of this matter, but that's not because I disagree with the fact that there are gambling halls or that gambling is permitted, but that is, in principle, an expanded point to which I make comments. But we are here at 1st. so there are yet to be seen, both explanations and probably other problems that we face on committees and in conference discussions. This discussion often introduces, or, in fact, always, a similar viewpoint to that of those who came up in the drinking business and come up with things that are in some way undesirable in general. Of course, gambling is undesirable in many ways, and of course alcohol consumption is undesirable in some respects. The same can be said of drug abuse, illegally, and much more in life. In this context, we often find the phrase that, in my opinion, is very ugly, but it appeared earlier today and is characterized by great predestination. Now, when someone calls up some form of custody, they have often been complained. I feel the same way when people who promote custody complain that they are called custodyists and when foreigners complain about being called racists, they do not seem to have the problem. A senator who spoke earlier and all right about it, but I've noticed this tendency, and I think it's strange. If they really believe what they believe, they must be able to recognize that they are a custodyist and should have no problem with it. Another problem may be that they find it harder to back up their cause than to make up others'opinions and words that have never come out of their mouths. When it comes to these matters, there are more basic factors than people's health. True, it is possible to argue that putting laws on something illegal but still practice can contribute to improving public health. However, there are other basics, and they are very similar to the ones we discuss on the alcohol network, which is simply the term "freedom." Freedom is not a public health matter. If we're going to be a free society, which I believe we really want to be, not in all things, but basically, that means that the public health reasons cannot be a trumpet against all freedom, that's just a direct alumnitative consequence of it. So even if this bill leads to an increase in opposition to human health, it's not a trumpet against the case. It's very important to have a good time. Congress members of the High Council can understand this, acknowledge it, and discuss it openly and honestly. This applies to all, not just those with the bill or against it. Freedom matters. And it is not only when it is healthy; it also matters when it can be disloyal. It's not a trumpet to use human health against freedom. Neither is it the opposite, nor is it the trumpet to say that freedom is always more important than people's health. In 1st. We don't have much time to discuss the matter very much, but I'd like to mention a few philosophical aspects of it and also only get into the material bill as far as I can at this time. I like to keep in mind, because people always worry about the person's young ones and growing up, there are some lessons that a person needs to learn in order to become an adult. Much of these lessons are comparable. One of them is that you have to watch out for excess. That's a general lesson, at least it should be. Not surprisingly, if you have to watch your diet for not taking too much fat, you also need to be careful not to eat too much sugar. If a person is not to imitate one television show or a movie, he should not need a special lesson or special effort to explain the exact same point when other television programs or movies are introduced. When it comes to freedom, people, and, no matter what the lawgiver says, come to realize that there are dangers of living in a free society and that each individual, no matter what the lawgiver thinks, is responsible for his own behavior toward himself and others. That is an inevitable lesson. It's not a choice. We will never, hopefully never at least, live in a society where that lesson will be in some way unnecessary because it will only be unnecessary in an environment that is not free and that is a community that at least is one of the people here that has absolutely no interest in living in. To say that it is important to avoid extremes. This bill includes very strict rules around the function, normal. The bill shows that they are particularly strict at first during tests. I'm responsible. I'm responsible for the transporters of this bill having it that way. To a much more strict extent than I would have thought necessary. However, as indicated in the preliminary principle of the bill, this should be reviewed after seven years. Then, according to a report, the move is expected to be more relaxed than to be hardened. I think it's a responsible approach to allow this. That's what I have to say. In my opinion, there are some things that have been well developed in the bill, such as security, contact with a supervisor, and the funding of the defense are expected, which I consider to be a neat solution to finance the problem in the context of the problem itself. Many people feel that it is ironic, and even hypocritical, though I would not agree with it, to use something like gambling to finance solutions to it. I understand the point of the view, and I understand the feeling it makes, but I have to say to myself that it really seems to me that it is the most neat solution to finance things like this. There is another point that I still don't fully understand whether there might be a contradiction to it, it can be. That point is, in my opinion, the funding of the help we provide to one another with our tax money. We do not do it with our freedom. I understand and think that everyone understands the social understanding that we are going to have a health system, we're going to have law enforcement, and we're going to have rights, and we're going to have things to protect the rights and main interests of the whole country, and we're going to do that by paying taxes. That's the deal I think society has made. That's how the deal is like I always understood it. However, we are often sneaking into this agreement that we are going to have health systems, law enforcement, and justice protection, etc. provided everyone lives a very healthy life. There's no such thing as a deal with the guy here. We finance the concordat with money, not by keeping people from doing what they want in their lives. Of course, we discourage people from having a measure of influence in the lives of others, for it is no longer a free person. To say, I find this bill somewhat strange and look forward to discussing it better on a committee. One thing I find most uncomfortable about is the provisional principle that only one license should be permitted according to this law. This is supported by not necessarily a operating ground for more than one card palace in Iceland. Of course it's true, but I don't think that's a reason to put it specifically in the law. If this competition were to destroy this market, I'd appreciate it because I don't need it. I don't see any need to ban this, but I don't need to have one either. That's why I don't quite understand why this bill seems to be reflected in other locations, so it's a special goal to make sure that these activities are going financially. I don't think it's the lawgiver's job. If this doesn't work out, it won't work. I think it's okay. There are other things I find strange about the other provisional principle, or rather, I would like to think about it. This should be reviewed after seven years, but the license is up to 15 years. I think it's better in conversation with the experts on a committee how this is going to work, but I think it's better to say it. It is 15 years of permission, although the law is only seven years unreceptive. Actually, I may not be quite correct, but it's that the law is supposed to reconsider in seven years. Six. The bill is four numbers I've stopped at rather than by. First, it is the 1st, which shows that one of the conditions for approval is that of a partner or a private partner. I wondered why. Why must this not be a self - interest organization or a charity? I don't understand why this is necessary. The fourth case requires that the permit holder be qualified to run a card hall in a responsible manner, including has financial opportunity to run a gambling palace and have international experience with gambling halls. Having financial opportunities to do that, I understand well because the house of cards has to be able to live up to its commitments to customers, users. However, I do not realize why the person should have international experience in gambling halls. I also wondered, " How many people might possibly be able to do this? ' I'm rather uncomfortable with this bill, I have to say, that it seems to me that very few people can meet these requirements, especially with the fact that only one permit is allowed in the bill. Then I'll see to it that it's going to be a big monopoly, and then I have to start wondering if it's above my head that it's good that it's in a private market or if we should have a state card palace, which is an idea that I really don't think much of. But these are my speculations that wake up when reading these rules in the bill, which I think will lead to monopolies in the market. I also worry that there will be abuse of this monopoly because I think the free market will only go with the mechanism of the so - called capitalist theories based on competition. To number five, pars. it is also stated that the permit holder has enough tourists to recruit so that gambling halls are secure. There are two things I don't understand. On one hand, why the bill has a special purpose in ensuring the location of gambling halls. Why can't she go under if she doesn't work out? However, why do tourists need to be built? I think card halls are a little easy to make, if I'm going to say exactly what it is. If I don't really think that's all right, or as long as it can keep its commitments to customers, at least the majority and the most. It carries all the activities of financial risks for all who take part in the economy above their heads. Then, in chapter 7, it's a typical cake I want to make a comment to, but I realize that maybe more people will have more trouble agreeing with me. It's a requirement that the patient has not broken the drug and drug law. This is also shown in 29 C.E. I don't think it's a good thing because the drug law is only illicit drugs and drugs, and somehow it's always assumed that doing the product illegally would be something completely different from being legally high. But one of the most dangerous drugs in human society, in the Western world at least, is alcohol, and it's legal. There is no law against using alcohol for two or three weeks or because of the police. It's always the illegal drugs. It is assumed that they affect people who are hurt that they cannot do anything anymore but, of course, the exact same thing when it comes to alcohol and, in fact, alcohol is in many ways, if not most, much worse. I ask the audience to imagine the worst species of the so-called head and then the worst species of the so-called drunk. It does not have to be long - suffering as to whether harmful activities and the interests of others are harmful. I'll make a note of that in the 21st floor. is 21 years of age. I can only speak for myself, not according to any public policy of my party, but I personally feel that once you're 18 years old, when you're an adult, when you're yourself. I don't feel comfortable being an 18-year-old man, so don't buy alcohol until you're 20, and then don't go to a gambling house until you're 21. I understand the caution. I understand her well, but I think it's worth mention. When you are a person of your own age, it probably means that you are to control your own destiny, your personal life, not in the lives of others, but in harmony with your adult life. I feel like I'm getting a shot off. In par. 24th. is rather a thorough registration warrant, and in fact, there are a lot of registration rights I would like to stay on. Again, it is a law that I understand well. Of course, they are made for safety, which is a very serious reason. But I think it's worth staying there and wondering if she might go further than is needed. Now, I have no more time, more honorable president, and so finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson for a fine talk and a very helpful discussion on the subject. I'm not sure I can as soon as I ask you why. A senator responds to all the helpful comments. It'll be a subject of what? General and Education Committee. But, hey. A senator was quite clever to draw out those things that are certainly difficult when such laws are being made. But I'm going to start in general because of what I'm going to do. A senator said that he did not approve of the case, not against gambling or gambling halls, but he speaks against custody. Got it. A senator would not want such a choice? Whether we're talking about a local traveler or a tourist, because this is part of it compared to recreation in tourism and is explained in other laws of the bill. Is this not the first choice? Of course, there are other viewpoints in the contract of this bill speaking about its purpose. It's that it is clear what the law allows. That's not clear enough today. We want the bill, as shown in Article 1. for goals, for the sake of responsible gambling, and for clear and clear messages from the Lawgiver on what is permitted, and for what is not stated in penalties, such as 183 and 184. which, though, continues. It may be the first question, Is this just not the option to be there, whether people will choose to go in or not? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u37	A respectable president. I generally believe that things should be allowed until specifically forbidden. When things are specifically forbidden, I believe that there is a great deal of evidence that needs to be the case. Then I also believe that there should be a high level of public interest. That's not often the case. People often get confused about the interests of a person who has his own choice of life and the interests of the people of the land who suffer from some consequence of the rules put in place. I view it as a very rich difference that often becomes vague in the high Council and, indeed, in Icelandic society in general. To answer that. At least a senator would consider it desirable to me that this is allowed. My review of the bill is primarily a focus of extraction and information that may concern the approach, rather than that I disagree with the goals in itself, which are authorized by gambling halls. But in general, I am a man of freedom, thinking that gambling should be allowed by some rules, but allowed, and that should be some counterweight measures to ensure gambling interests. In some parts of the country, minimum share ratio rules have been set, i.e. that you cannot have a winning ratio of 0% or 0.0001% or whatever you think of, because things like that come into your mind, and sometimes it works. You often have to ask yourself, " When is this really cheating? ' It is often not necessarily a simple question. The answer is yes. I think this should be allowed, and I hope that some bill like this will be successful and, of course, will offer my assistance in the treatment of the council of the case to improve it, as I know that. Transporters are completely perplexing when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the answer. I'm going to cross-examine to the many useful indications as far as possible. In his talk, a senator approached. First of all, what did he say? Senator of the provisional statute on legal review within seven years. Second, a permit authorized by a minister is 15 years. It is true, but I second again that this is almost a translation of the Danish law as they originally begin. At that time, the seven - year - old was determined to see how that operation was working. Thereafter, they are watching for 15 years. This calls for a major investment, a high cost, which is often a symptom of such activities as tourism or other such activities. There is a high cost in the investment, and long - term attention is needed. With regard to the business plans, I agree completely. I could well support myself, since the Council has taken the lead in allowing for special forms of gambling, as a benefit from that view on charity. I can picture the cooperation of the parties who are already at this market under one roof, and we, for example, closed up places where collection boxes are and no surveillance, or at any rate tried to ensure better contact and monitoring, since this is all over town and beyond to trouble me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u39	A respectable president. As for the seven-year revision arrangement, the provisional principle, I understand why. Transporters have applied the Danish law, but it is good to build on something that is basically known how it works. I don't necessarily think it's some point of view to allowing the values to be 15 years old, but the law reviewed within seven years, but I think it's something that needs to be clear how to work. For example, I wondered, because we haven't considered a committee yet whether this makes any legitimate expectations of the permit person. What would his legal standing be like when the law was reviewed? In fact, I think so quickly that it would not be a problem. I just think it's important that it's clear that it's not a problem, and I'm sure it's somehow a good knot. What I actually have more to set out on, and that also comes from the Danish law, is that there is a limit to the number of permits published. Of course, Denmark is much bigger than Iceland, so there is much more room for other licence workers. But that there's only room here, according to your bill's carriers, for one person, that's what I think is a problem. I believe that if this industry was to end a competition, it would be a lesson that would not cause any significant damage to the Icelandic community. I'd just like to be the message that this operation in Iceland was not open to me. I would also be totally without cause. Just as if it was completely indiscriminate to me that it was a job. I don't see the need for this in itself. I think it's mostly about the basic Prince that things should be allowed until they are specifically forbidden.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u40	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 829, about fish farms, from Hrafn Höfni Gunnarsson, and we ask for a spell. 788 and 791 on committees, groups, and projects, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. A letter has also been received by the Ministry of Health, where request is made in order to give a written answer to a covering request. 836, on contracts for health care, from the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u41	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize gambling halls. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for his bill and for how much work he has put into this. That's a lot of information. I'm with him on this matter. It's not because I'm some special guy for gambling halls, casinos, or what people want to call it. But although I think I'm pretty green, I'm not quite green to be able to ignore the facts. To me, it's about getting close to the work that's already there. Of course, in a perfect world, no one wants to see such activity, gambling palaces, or its name. That doesn't sound good, but the harsh reality tells us that this operation is there. Let's just admit it. Gambling, as noted in one report, has been with mankind for centuries. Good old bingo was permitted here in 1926, and in 1945 the betting of competition and competition was permitted. These races were a great tournament of men, the Pentecostal races. Who doesn't remember them? I don't know that any human beings are harmed by any involvement in that operation. This may not be as bad as it sounds, but the fact is that it is. Publicized Web sites allow the public to be accessed to gambling can be seen in the media. It's right in front of us. Then the media and police have repeatedly reported that high - quality halls are being driven here. We cannot ignore these facts. The report says that certain activities have already been allowed here, while other activities of the same hurt, known to thrive in Iceland and appear to be increasing, are out of control in a black hole. We'll allow a slot machines. We allow certain members of our community to engage in these activities and make money from them. In fact, it's charity, and it's all very good to say. But I believe it will improve your efforts to get a connection to this operation. I'm not sure that the weakest group will be the one who's going to play cards. What do people do when such problems arise? They look to the experience of others; there is no need to invent the bike. How have other nations handled this issue? This fine report shows how the Danish legislation is. This bill is a lot based on that data. It says that in Denmark gambling business was more often than not linked to organized crime. Thus, the law of gambling was supported by the fact that it was a government contribution to the struggle against organized crime. If this is the case in Denmark, I ask, " Why doesn't it apply here at home? ' And if you play here, as men are talking about, for a billion or more on the Internet each year, I don't think we can ignore the facts. Danir went that way. The report states that since the law is not competitive in legal halls under strict supervision, the activity of the illegal gamblers has become ablaze. I'm involved in this case on that basis. We are to look at the experiences of others. In 2005, the prevalence of pathological gambling was found to be only 0.1% in Denmark in subjects aged 18◯74 years, the lowest of all northern countries. If the experience is so positive in Denmark, I ask: " Why don't we try it here? We cannot ignore facts. Dana's experience with card palaces has been good, as previously attributed, and with subsequent changes have caused some compromise on the rich standards originally set out in Danish legislation, including the U.S. with increased implementation of regulations in the format of regulations instead of the law. So they were strict at first and are now rather relaxing. This bill, however, takes into account a greater divorce than does the Danish law. As noted earlier, Danir began to tax significant benefits from gambling and to have other neighboring countries at the same time. The bill assumes to follow the same path. It refers to taxing twice as much as in ordinary activities and up to four times as much. It's allowed everywhere else in the North, except in Norway and then in Iceland, so I don't buy it to be some kind of the end of the world, even though we try to get a connection to this operation. There are sick people around. That's the way it is today, and it's no secret. Although gambling halls are forbidden in Iceland, it's like the rest of the world's junkies. What is positive in this case is that it produces income. Forty-five. it is a law to establish a fund that is responsible for the study and to promote treatments aimed at securing addictive gambling. Since the objective of the bill is to promote responsible gambling, certain parts of the gambling tax must be placed in the precautionary order, i.e. control of addictive gambling. Then there is the income to work on these matters for those who are ill. I choose to face the problem and see it as a solution rather than the other. Thank you so much. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, for his hard work in this case, this fine information brochure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u42	V.E.G. President. I've been giving a story in this discussion about this bill on card halls, and I haven't been planning on adding much to it. But the discussion has been very good, and many helpful suggestions and comments have been made, including ............ paritaprevir who last spoke, Jóhann, the son of Pálsson, who is also a mediator of the matter. There are a few things I wanted to do. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson had many helpful tips, many of them anyway. A top-of-the-art Board of Education will, of course. But I'm going to try in this talk to put it together for a little while, and the emphasis that has been presented during the discussion and perhaps for the reasons of the overall objective and goal of the bill. Hv. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn weekend pointed to the 1st Amend 6th. a. which stipulates the business plans of the company. Commenting on this article, we say in a few articles on the bill, with the permission of a president: The applicant should be a participant or a private partner. Money in these forms works on the basis of special laws. The reason for these proposals is that such communities have detailed rules, such as bridges. e.g. Law No. 2/1995, units and law No. 138/1994, for private societies, there is a set structure and transparency in their organization, activities, and accounts. Of course, it is not that, although it is authorized on the basis of these laws, a minister can authorize such a business and business. I think it's quite a view that it should not be part of the type of management method. In fact, I feel that it is the responsibility of the Committee to cover it thoroughly. But the evidence that this arrangement is suggested is found in comments with the bill, they are there. I wanted to share it. Of course, a number of people may come to such a first attack. This book has repeatedly pointed out that the Danish law was used in this matter. In fact, in the 1990 dance conference before the law was adopted, the SAS brought this up because there is a direct and clear link to tourism. There is nothing in the bill that says about it or whether we should have an opinion of how many people would be involved in such a society that would be interested in it and financially, as is repeated and stressed in this bill, to go to such activities. I wanted to come to this. Another was 24. It is emphasized in the bill, as in the Danish law originally did, that there is a very significant obligation to the operator in close relations and monitoring of customers and to the strict demands of the company. Several articles of the bill are involved. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson pointed to 24 st. and all the registrations it presents. I think there's going to be a review to the Perponist, and it's a project for what it's about to happen. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Nevertheless, it is the norm and nor is it the norm in gambling halls and other laws of this matter. A respectable president. In the end, I want to make clear that when you are talking about common gambling and the problem, you may find that this discussion is a top argument, and it may be a matter of bringing this activity up to the surface. Of course, it is under the surface and in the press and in the press, the names and clubs that offer cards and those who gamble under no legal protection and no income are given, as it would be in conflict with 183.4.3 and 184.g. As a result, there will be no income for the state's funds. It is difficult to keep a close eye on these sites or what is taking place there. This issue is designed to draw such activity to the surface so that it can be identified, controlled, and produced as responsible gambling as possible. When we talk about the problem of gambling and the most serious part of his gambling, it is so, if it is considered, research and articles in that area that the same applies to most nations, whether they do not allow it to be the same in Norway or where it is permitted as in Sweden, Denmark and Finland; the gambling is very similar in proportion to 2%. However, the increased prevalence of compulsive gambling is virtually entirely a result of playing the Internet. A respectable president. At the same time, it was critical to allow only one party to get a license. This is still the dance route, but I can point out that since then, because the experience of Dana of a card hall has been positive, including a positive one. with regard to illegal activity, cooperation with the Rapporteurs, the Precautionary Fund, which developed and interacts with a business organisation that deals with the serious problems of gambling, more and more such sites have been granted and gambling halls have been opened, including the U.S. In Vejle, in Aaros, in Odinsvé, in Alaburg, in Sheol, and that I have another place in Copenhagen. But I'm going to finish this here, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u43	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of maternity and parentoroft, No. 95/2000 members of the United States Parliament. We in Iceland enjoy the highest birth rate in Europe, meaning that in a short period of time, we revere ourselves naturally because of the many ways in which Icelandic women have worked so hard to have children. In view of European statistics, one country was above us in terms of birth rates, i.e. Turkey, part of Europe. In general, the North countries have been successful in birth rates, so that they can have a more suitable rate of age than many countries, such as in southern Europe and Germany and others, which leads to a truly joyful sense of age and better health, as more people enter the Icelandic labour markets because of natural population growth. And we're also so lucky that here we want to come and work when we have a chance, but that's another story. The high birth rate in the North and Iceland are due to our well - being systems that are so built up that women do not have to choose between going into a job market and having children. We can do both. This is not true for women in many more souther countries, such as Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Germany, where birth rates are severely low. However, the trend in recent years has been that birth rates have been reduced, since we have not provided young families with the necessary conditions for children to be ready to have children. There's a lot to do. We need to change our child - welfare system so that we can pay for each child's child's rights. We need to extend our period of nursery so that our children can go to nursery school sooner than they do now. We also live in this world that despite the high birth rates, employment groups are nowhere larger than here, both in women and in men, based on many European countries, and our working hours are very long. In all of this, we need to make adjustments to create human society here and create a society that is desirable for children's families. This bill is one factor in improving that condition. In the crash, donations were cut down for the birth - holiday reserve, which was not easy. But it was a far more efficient system than many of our other transfer systems, and it was done to raise the normal level of unemployment insurance and social insurance minimums. However, the Government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir again began to raise the birthworm. The roof was down to 300 yards. K. and went up to 350. K. with budget of January 1, 2013 We also decided to extend the birthworm for 12 months. It was to start from January 1, 2014, with a complete start on January 1, 2016. But what happened? There was a new government, and it had a second priority on money. An extension of the birthworm was canceled. There were no financial resources at this time to reduce fishing costs and to cancel the pressures of wealth taxes on the richest of Icelandic society. Children's families drew the short straw in this distribution, such as so many other means of welfare. The roof was raised by 20 up. K. of 370 you. K. And now the third almanac year of a single maternity is at hand, meaning the nitre of a baby family's decay. As a result, more and more fathers now take maternity vacations. In 2008 about 91% of fathers took the birth Orlof, which was taken to more than 78% in 2014, threatening the aim of birthworm for children to enjoy together with both parents and equal positions of the sexes in the labour market. For normal reasons, mothers have found it harder than fathers to cut short or cancel their birthfowl, although more and more women are now taking a considerable amount of less time to go to the womb. The family budget is greatly affected. This is usually the nature of the issue, in general, relatively young people who are buying a house, perhaps even starting to pay off loans while having children and then needing to have a downturn. If the maternity would have followed the price of a crash, the tomb would now have been 820 you. K. But that's 370,000 k. That's a lot to remember. On the other hand, we recommend that the roof go to 500 of you. K., or it should have been done on January 1st, 2016. We put the bill before Christmas, but it hasn't been on until now. To meet the financial needs of a baby family, we suggest a moderate but necessary increase. We suggest that the birthworm be extended to 12 months in a two - step manner and that it will take full force on January 1, 2018, so that the apart right of parents will be five months apart and the common rights of two which can be divided into a total of 12 months for infants to have with their parents after birth. Other payments, such as minimal payments or birth grants, are not proposed to be used to those with low employment, education, or out of labour markets. It is customary for them to be funded by a budget. However, we agree that the basis for that amount of money will be revised in the context of the minimum student loan extensions, social security pensions, and unemployment benefits. It is also an important step to take on the task of building the gap between obstetrics and preschools. Many rural society today endeavor to take children into preschool, but it is not uncommon for children to be nearly two years old when they get to school and have to be in very expensive and less confident options until then. The changes in the maternity canals that were made at this turn of the century were highly acceptable, and the goal of this bill is to ensure that the birthal reactor system serves its objectives. Otherwise, the birthworm system may become further weakened and the cost of rebuilding it will be harder to control. When social and housing minister withdrew from the maternity of the womb and suggested an ignominious increase that has not been added for three years, she formed a concomitant committee that was to be revised in the maternity law. We recently received, just this week, information on the welfare committee that it was not known when it came back. So it is important that this bill reach the welfare committee and be discussed there and be legal, since more and more evidence and statistics are that there are young families, young people in this country who are in the most difficult and difficult conditions than previous generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u44	Madam President. I appreciate the opportunity to take this discussion to the highest level. Secretary of finance. It is vital that we communicate on this matter at the General Assembly. There is no need for the time to keep much of the plans of insurance companies that have recently been published on excessive financial contributions to shareholders this year. A total of 9.6 billion were planned to profit from the three large insurance companies, which would have totaled about 30 billion dollars in total to the owners of these partners in three years in cash pay and on the purchase of their own letters. The remuneration plans, as they were before they were reviewed by the Society's management committees in terms of proposals for the main meetings, ranged from over half of the economy of the past year to two and a half times to five times or over five times the budget of last year. Of course, there is hope that in such a situation, humans will be appalled. The insurance companies tried to carry a new rule through the EEA Convention, called the Solvency II Directive. The problem is that this directive has not been implemented in Iceland, so insurance companies were going to put it ahead of cover because it was on its way. This is even more ironic because the principle of this directive should be to support the basis of insurance operations and to make the Buddies obligated to enter their risk or supply to a greater risk than in the older system, i.e. that their financial volumes should not only reflect the ratios of damages to the likely damages, as it has been in the business of the partners, but also take into account the risk of investments due to the budgets of interest, market risk and other factors. Hence, it is ironic to use a prospective but unattracted decree to support the foundation of this operation in order to exasperate your own money just before it arrives. Fortunately, there is a harsh response, including The company of Icelandic car owners, especially that and the appreciation for them, as well as for the public, the media, and the politicians, have now decided to revise their suggestions for the big meetings and go down to - what? Yes, 100% of the last year's income profits. It would be good for most towns. Of course, there is a big difference between paying off two-and-a-half-fold to five times the economy of last year's interest. This leaves the question of what to do next. I'm not sure these people necessarily changed their minds dramatically. The surprising thing, we can say tragically, to this case is the message it makes us about the mentality once again in many countries in Iceland, that everything is now possible and greed alone is guided. That time, however, has not arrived, as does the public's reaction. I think you should realize in the commercial world in Iceland that there's a small demand for greed, and there's a small demand for behind the curtain and selling things for the best friends in closed process and other such things. During the past few weeks and months, this has been shown, and it is good, since it clearly does not help. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in relation to this and because it states that the Generals are now waiting to deal with the implementation of the directive: Is it not in this light worth the consideration of enforcing in the introduction that if it is taken out of control, they should share with their clients far beyond their limits? We can work that out in law in connection with the implementation of this directive and/or then calculate some special income tax extravasation of partners or other such measures. We're here on a small market, confirming the Contestant Board, asking for an economic and business committee, a clean, low-level competition market, and we know him well when three parallel parties with a 30,55% market share share are pretty much divided between them. Sports scare them out of fear. It is also clear that the public does not experience it, so he has many options when, for example, these schemes appear to us as almost coordinated with the measures of insurance companies in what they can do. Then you will not see much purpose in wandering with your penalties between these three parties. This issue gives us reason to work with it. Of course, we rejoice that these plans have been revised by insurance companies, but there is a need for leaks that they can try to repeat the game. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u45	Madam President. It is good to be able to take this discussion here and discuss matters in the dough, issues discussed in society, that we have a location at the council to exchange opinions on them, in this case plans govern the insurance companies on the payment of future main meetings. I'd like to start by saying that this whole case is a reminder that employment life needs to be better understood that we all stand together to regain trust in the country, trust in public and professional activities, confidence between votes and political parties, voters and Generals, in monitoring institutions, etc. We are doing well in many areas, but the job life and the workforce as a whole must also be made available in that discussion. What I'm particularly referring to in this regard is that men believe it is possible to walk in Iceland today to raise at the same time the pay for legal guarantees and to take out a lot of money, i.e. First year's profit. It just doesn't work. There is no patience in the public, it has been demonstrated in this case. I don't think it's to belittled that two members have listened to viewpoints in the discussion and made changes in their plans on this matter. However, I have to say that I often feel that people have been discussing these plans and the status of the insurance companies too deeply. It is extremely important that through the council no misleading signals or information on the situation, such as when it is said: The insurance companies inside are hollowed, as if only the packaging or shell alone are left standing. That's not true at all. It is confirmed by the SEC that all insurance companies, despite these interest plans, were able to meet all claims. So it's a very well-deserved company with no evidence of anything other than having to live up to all its commitments, including the insurance debt. It is fundamentally essential that this council is not spoken as if these communities are up and that, at the same time, high remunerations are being paid. Second, regarding the current legal adjustments in the council, it is not right to be playing in the covert of their rules of interest. It is true of the prime minister here that the rules we are applying for are intended to strengthen for the long-term protection of the insurance companies and, hence, the status of the insurance companies. I can honestly say that it's difficult to get it together that at the same time as we've given the rules and quicker support for these activities and their status with insurance parties, it's just at the same time that your partner's assessment that there's room to make money. But that may not tell us anything else in itself, but it is a very well - off business with a very strong personal position and possessions that are far beyond what is required to demonstrate the law of a man to live up to commitment. That in itself is all that is said. There may be opinions, such as what is being discussed here. Should a person share the more important things with his clients? I don't think the lawgiver should be interfering with it. Where else should we end this discussion? What about banks that meet their own standards? They should not pay interest without first reducing interest, etc.? So, do we really want to put it into law? What about freight companies with their own money? Should we legally forbid them to make money before they begin to lose their money? What about oil companies, should we forbid them to make money? They've been paying interest year after year - before people have first dropped the spell on a sold litre? Should we rule it out by law? I don't think the General can simply take such a step. It's way too far. It's too much forethought, that's what I think. [[Up front.]] Taking that step is too much for you to see, and it is too much business to take. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad people have listened, there are new suggestions on making money from the partners here for the discussion, and I think it's a sign that men are not entirely out of touch with the reality in Iceland today. Then we will continue to improve the setting, strengthen the ground of law, and see to it what is mainly meant for us to do, to protect the citizens of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u46	President. For what is the prince's purpose? It is lawful for them to do so. This expression comes to mind because of reports on the amazing money paid by insurance companies. The nation's economy has improved over the past few years, and it's getting better. What has the government done? It has reduced the price of hunting, the loss of a wealth tax, the loss of energy taxes, the increase in hospital attendances, the increase in medical supplies required by patients, the increase in food taxes, and it has increased book taxes. The health system needs money and the education system lacks money, the transport system is missing money - but the government reduces the cost to the best of its means and best of survival. Hence, it is not surprising that insurance companies thought that they could get away with making high money to the shareholders and raise the pay paid to the public. They just follow the example of the government. There's no contest at the insurance market, but there's still some competition there, even though it's small. I'm told that the phone hasn't stopped at the insurance company for the last few days. We need to promote competition as we can, but this is difficult in our small, closed country. A respectable president. I'm not sure that the conduct of the insurance companies by law can be prevented, and I'm not even sure that I wanted to live in a country where anything we think was bad could be banned. But they're supposed to put pressure and drive companies into decent behavior and they've managed in this, at least Partial. We also need to maintain the government, and we need to make sure that it sets the example of insurance companies and is acting on their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u47	A respectable president. I would like to use this brief talk to try to express my particular sadness in this matter. I still feel that you have good reason to suspect major business partners, the big business blocks, about being in a global conspiracy against consumers. You always feel like you're the victim of a consumer in Iceland. I asked a representative of the Contestant Commission at a meeting in the current economic and business committee -- I don't think I'm breaking any confidence by describing them, they were good - what provision of this financial insurance company would reflect a healthy environment in Iceland. What would the insurance companies do if it were a healthy competitive environment? Yes, would they not be trying to use this coin to make better products for the consumers, trying to raise their payments on helpless years, trying to reduce the pay, trying to attract clients in this environment together? The big pain is that there's nothing going on. Once again, we can see this video game in a singles market, where three blocks divide by 30% each, and then one another gets to play with 10%. And it's like you're in some closed Facebook group, talking to each other at the same time, choosing to pay off handsome profits. They don't seem to be thinking about consumers, customers. This is what is repeated in so many fields of Icelandic market, this is what disappoints you, and it's very important to challenge the U.S. executives to run the dirty word when it comes to these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u48	A respectable president. We're here discussing the proposed billions of dollars made from insurance companies, which are in excess of the year's profits, which, in some cases, are financed by loans, and at the same time, the expense of customers is increased. I particularly thank the company of Icelandic car owners for having fought in this case and for calling attention to these high profits and promotions and for the fight for consumer interests. FIB has held the view that if there is room to pay so much money from insurance companies, it must be considered that the insurance companies will enjoy it on some level, just as the shareholders do. That, in my opinion, is a very reasonable requirement. The Economic and Business Committee decided at their meeting on Tuesday to call for information and answers from the SEC and the Contesting Commission and to see their representatives today. Both institutions are to be thanked for responding rapidly to this request by the Committee. The FEC did not want to take a direct view of the question whether these communities were too systematicly important to fall, and it does not seem to have resources today to stop the money industry as long as the budget meets the rules in the European Economic Areas. There may have to be some special rules for Iceland. The U.S. Senate considers that a few countries are at the insurance market and that it is worthwhile to consider whether a good supply of insurance companies should also go to the customers on some level. It may also be in my opinion that here the fine socialisation form of partnerships or mutual insurance companies, which are driven by a view of the rest of their business, may have to be reimbursed to customers themselves. It may be that a market marked by a few competitions is particularly necessary for such insurance companies to keep other insurance companies on the subject. Today, reports were coming about the decision to make far less money than was previously planned. Therefore, this is especially to be a cause for rejoicing, for it allows the law of the law to allow the customers to be better off than it would otherwise have been. I hope the money laws put their customers in the wind. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u49	A respectable president. I don't have to say that the conduct of the insurance companies we've been tracking this week is reprehensible. Such a change of course when it comes to how they're going to make money brings reason to mind. It's also worrying, at least. To me, how largely the insurance companies are in raising their fees by making so much money. For example, it calls attention to the condition of insurance companies. There is considerable cross - possession connections. The insurance companies own about 25◯30% of their insurance companies from six companies in each insurance company. It promotes an unfortunate position in the insurance market, where the same owners own 253/4.30% in each partner. Then you start to wonder if there is a silent consultation here. What, then, can be done? Is it not time to make a assessment of this insurance market? Sometimes you have to choose between what is right and what is easy. I think it's easy to cooperate with the conduct of these insurance companies. On the other hand, my sense of social responsibility for insurance companies violates. I hope to the highest. A minister agrees with me that this is not a normal practice, and I strongly urge him to have a check on the markets of insurance companies, whether there is some kind of consultation, whether it is silent or advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u50	President. Where are we now eight years after the collapse? Let us review the factor when money flowed around society and money was everywhere, money that no one had, but all were borrowed. In fact, there were people who ate gold and the wrongs grew, were paid a lot of money, and were more than a month's wage for workers, offerers were more than a year's salary, and over a year's pay for a fuel dealer. The party to the collapse was tailored in the manner of the novelisticism. Inhibition was reduced, monitoring decreased, capitalization was to be free, independent, and flammable, the market was to be healed. The competition was the password, a new liberal attempt on a high level. The Independence Party concluded, released the private output. Everyone was happy. The banks grew and swelled. Then everything, the financial system, the political system, and the trust broke down. President. It is now 2016. The collapse is behind the same government as the government of power and the contemporaneous one. The same theme, the same religion, the same compulsive assurance of the market, and the private enterprise rushes into public service. Social institutions are ridiculed and the infrastructure is neglected. The situation is characterised by monopolysynthesis. Few large participants are offering services that no one can refuse to buy. A competition is now empty and really a competition. In fact, insurance companies have unconventional access to the public. Swamp was supported by this same public after a collapse from a government fund to keep seawater and be able to pay out insurance. Where does that money go today? They go to owners in the form of profit. The minister of finance said yesterday that shame is to be found in those who take advantage of the money. There the minister of finance spoke out of context. The shame is the newcomer of freedomism. The shame is the Independence Party, the shame for those who support their views of power, and the shame is for those who now encourage by action and inaction that Iceland will again become the experiment project of the new-free mind. The public is not willing to accept this offer. [[The president calls.]] We've seen it before, and it'll we'll see again. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u51	A respectable president. There is no shortage of discriminatoryness in this matter regarding the payment of insurance companies. There's no shortage of disapproval in this room, so I'm not going to become part of the group, expressing my disapproval of a planned payment. You see, I don't regret having examined the matter, not in detail, for which the time has not yet been taken, but in any way, that there is reason for the emotion that has taken hold of society because of the proposed interest - most certainly not - to give a reason to the fortunes that humans have taken to express their disapproval. There's not been any talk here, like what's happened. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Stetggis expressed it, saying that men are shielding themselves behind a new formula or paying off interest in a new formula that will be introduced here soon, called Solvency II Rules. You need to remember that in this country, for the first time, there are plans to coordinate ways to calculate the insurance debt. All of our insurance companies have been preparing for the last loss. These new rules have led to the loss debt that has often been called a thank - you fund, which was swollen here for decades and was played at will, many of whom, for many years, have been evaluated in a much more realistic and more beneficial way. In view of the fact that today's insurance companies have turned back their suggestions on making money, I also wondered about the position of the major stockholders in insurance companies. There's a state fund in one of the insurance companies and the pensions in all the others. Who's spoken the treasurer of the pensions who'll be here from payment, a state fund of 420 million. K. money from this decision - to - do if it really works out? [[The president calls.]] Who's going to speak to the Treasurers in the Pension Fund in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u52	Mr. President. The insurance companies have published their plans to raise money paid, which includes reimbursement of so - called reforms, and their plans have made a strong response. This is natural when it comes to paying more money than the profits of the year and, at the same time, it is called payback rates because insurance companies are up to their expectations. Decisions on how to earn money, whether it is taken back or not, raise many questions about the management of insurance companies and the flag we live in, and how the insurance insurance insurance owners are benefiting from it, persistent questions such as whether donations have been overscheduled, whether customers have been paid too much in recent years, and whether the difference should not go to them, not just to the owners of the insurance companies, and questions about how to determine payments. The lack of protection will be discussed by consumers who are obliged to buy certain insurance, but it seems, in full measure, that the controversial prices of the insurance companies must be met. The bill is now a bill of insurance insurance treatment at the council, and it might be an opportunity to change the law to allow consumers to use overassessments of reforms in funds, such as in the form of a reduction in their penalties. Later, tax laws might be applied where appropriate. The rules of accounting, risks and assessments also need to be considered, the combination of accounting sizes and the possibility of making money on the basis of it. The General will have to respond to the situation with a greater determination and efficiency than with special discussions, as we now do. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he believes the General needs to establish stricter policy on remuneration will pay in the insurance market. Does he think that adequate consumer protection might be involved in the price of insurance insurance with the sources that tax laws and accounts seem to provide insurance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u53	A respectable president. Most people have expressed dissatisfaction with these planned payments, but you have also heard criticism of those who criticize insurance companies. I always think it's funny that we should celebrate it when things are going well and when investing our money because the concept of free markets and competition is to ensure a lower price and better service to consumers. I think it's forgotten, maybe because Iceland's companies are taking consumers for granted, maybe because we've been too jealous, that people aren't in the race for our favor. I can recall that at the turn of the century, when there was a price fixing going on with the oil companies before the Contestation Commission complained and complained, we drove straight to the nearest gas station and filled the car. It was just like that. Now I feel like we're becoming better consumers, I think I see the mark. I think consumers are supposed to be unpredictable, that they don't have to reason with one or another about their decisions. They're supposed to do what they want, and if they're scared of entering the insurance companies, they're simply changing companies. I've read, too, that there's really no one else on the market. Yes, there is one market company that can do business with people's will. I also feel that the silence of the concerned members has been a bit screaming. I can't figure out what's normal in this kind of business, and it's their job to explain to us if it's natural interest. The loans put the money on some fanciful campaigns to try to secure the trade, but they could better explain it if this is actually perfectly normal. With the latest news that the cost is being reduced, they have evidently come to the conclusion that it is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u54	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, for this discussion on the plans to make money for the insurance companies. In fact, I would like to say at the beginning of my speech, at this brief time, that I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance and economics, Bjarni Benediktsson, who says this is a reminder that we need to stick together in restoring trust. I think it's the first and last thing about it because it's full of understanding that those who put money in business make money from their money. There's no debate about it, there's a full understanding of it. A lack of competition is a problem, and it makes bad decisions. Therefore, in this discussion, I miss the fact that insurance companies have not followed such decisions at a board meeting, to provide a major meeting, to inform on the basis of which they are taken, and to explain. Especially when the reaction is so intense in the community, well - being, they should respond and explain, but they are going to try to keep their mouth shut. I just think that the positive pole that we can handle in this discussion is that there is a time when we can be quiet about decisions. The nation is more enlightened, more experienced and responding to such circumstances. That's why it's good to take this discussion here. In the end, I want to say that it is contradictory that at the same time we are implementing new rules, a decision to make for more money is made. [[The president calls.]] It just doesn't sound right.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u55	A respectable president. I think what we're talking about here is really rather typical of the conversation we regularly have in Iceland, that a very small number of people sharing a tiny market would not act like if they lived in an environment that is active, rich, competitive. [[Up in the hall: right.]] The fact is that we live in a tiny economy, which means that there are certain factors here that are fundamental to the idea of free markets and competition, the fundamental prerequisite for competition. As the U.S. Governing Body says exactly, this country is running a few races, not just on this market, but on a large scale. This happens over and over in the Icelandic economy. Therefore, this should not surprise anyone. I don't think there's much of a solution in this discussion, but I think there's more to it than it would be comfortable to admit. However, it is important to keep it in place that even the good people who are probably called in everyday conversation to the right do not agree with the ideals of free markets. It is important to keep this in mind, regardless of how people might react. Like what? Tenth. Smoke. For example, at the same time, it was said that the pay is raised at the same time. But again I have to say, it's typical, none of these things should surprise us. That's why I hope it's true. A senator before me said that the United States has come to realize that things like this need to be monitored. It must be the result of such matters, that is important, and if not from the General Assembly, then from the public itself and consumers themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u56	Madam President. Thank you. Councilmen and Ministers for answers and participation in the discussion. I agree with the highest. Ministers that it is important for everyone to sense their responsibility in it and to contribute in an effort to rebuild trust in this community. Clearly, more than financial value fell by collapse, all trust in the community, and it takes time to build it up. In fact, we do not have much to do with these losses, as is the conduct of banks with sales and now with insurance companies. It's not a good one. The only happy thing is that the nation is still conscious. She's gonna make a sound, and that's good. V.E.G. A financial minister says that he does not like to limit in some way what insurance companies can in the future afford to do in these matters. I'm not speaking of a permanentity limit for, for example, the natural payment. On the other hand, if the introduction of the Solvency II directive proves to be significantly beyond the financial tolerance of the union, I feel that it is quite another matter to consider that there is some special exchange between partners and shareholders. The fact that none of the insurance companies, despite good results, have thought of sharing their advantages to some extent with their clients, tells us a serious story about two things, one on the part of the managers'attitude and their estimates at the market, and the other, that competition is not then active. Of course, it would be a master trick for insurance companies to improve their image by having their clients enjoy a success, e.g. with it just as it would be, the amount of pay they pay will not be raised at the same time. Let's pretend that they didn't go all the way like the Danish club, Tryg, who repays 8% of the past year's payout due to good rain. Then I agree, and I thought I'd mention for myself that, of course, we need a social service company, a mutual insurance company, to support our private partners. [[The president calls.]] In the years to come, it would be a fine opportunity for the rest to pay for so much gain, so a member of the club and his clients might have a suitable amount of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u57	Madam President. This has been an excellent conversation, but we agree that in the commercial world, people must act in ways that are not promoting expectations and attitudes in the community. We've seen the members'governments change their suggestions, so they're already there. I just want to come on some of the things that have floated in the discussion today and the last few days. One thing is when a person says that his credit fund swelled at the expense of an insurance company. When you look at your peers'accounts, it may not be quite like this. You see, there is some evidence that many of their partners, not just last year, but more in time, do not pay on insurance. There is another activity under the hat of the insurance companies that makes more money. This is a fundamental point, it is not possible to follow one another, saying: The pay is far beyond what one has to take aside when public accounts after the FME assessment show otherwise. This must be part of the discussion. I would also like to point out that we have an example that the insurance companies have been doing just right a few years ago. They are doing well now, but there is not necessarily evidence that it will always be that way. We have also had access to the Icelandic insurance market, e.g. When Scania came in here, but they went out again. For what? Because the competition in the area where they were focusing, it was hard, perhaps after the response of the local companies, I don't know, but if I remember correctly, the mother company brought several hundred million fees into their accounts due to the activities of the society of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] In other words, the results of that release to Iceland were a steady loss of competition with the Icelandic insurance companies year after year. We agree, however, that we want to have active competition. We want insurance companies to benefit from this competition, and let us continue to be alert to the fact that laws and rules have the best chance of doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u58	Madam President. I'm just going to express myself on a bill to correct the change in the law of birth and parentorum that was recommended here and maybe is an improvement in the issues we've been discussing and about the status of families in the country. I agree that it is necessary to raise the sum when it comes to the peak of the maternity, whether it is this number, or if someone else is to be said, but we certainly need to do better with baby families. I agree with that, as a matter of course. First - speaking said earlier, we also need to examine all of this in the overall context, including reimbursement of the income criteria for child reform and other aspects of baby families. When we discussed the UNICEF report about 9 thousand children who suffer material deficiency, it is a part of the failure of some families, fathers especially taking birthworm, where there will be too much income reduction. The decision of the right to use orrlof is both income-related and sex-related, and it is very important that we try to correct the birthworm system according to what was intended for it, i.e. to balance your mother and father's schedule. As noted earlier, after a collapse, the stock of birth orcs had to be cut down, as did so many other things. So it became a real disappointment when the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon decided in 2014 that half of the stock market stocks of the stock market are funded, which is partly financed by the insurance fee paid by the companies in this country. I think it's 0.6, but it was 1.2 here before. When it's reduced that much, i.e. The income of an orc's stock, it can't rhyme with his purpose, i.e. I also believe that women will be beyond work markets; that is one of the things that maintains pay balance, at least he will not achieve a balance in my opinion. The roof of pay is 370 up. K, which is considerably below the average salary market. In 2013 it was nearly 560 you. K. So it may be a decision made primarily by the financial status of the people, whether they can take advantage of their maternity or not. When the arrangement had some good income limits, i.e. At the time of the departure, it was not the parents'decision to take advantage of the additional rights, i.e. The three - month - old rights that parents can split up have become sexual, since men are normally worth more than women. We need to rebuild this system, and we need to work hard. It was also attributed to the government that has now decided to reduce the income of a wealth considerably through so many factors that have been previously counted. Whether it is taxing on the seabed or on the rich or on the debt - related loans or on what they are now, the government's foundations are being weakened. When we face up to the fact that the birth of a stock is not financed, that is a reproach. He cannot live up to what he had to do, and he has not been restored to his former destiny. We know the amount of money in the system today is not high enough. People talk about it. There have been many reports of this. I'm not going to talk for very long in this case, but it's also possible to wonder when some conclusion can be expected from the group of work that has been investigating the future birthworm system. It's been a while since a report was due. As the chairman of the group said, it was just in the near future, one day during the first winter. He found that he felt that raising payment was more important than extending his holiday period. He thought it was urgent. I agree with him there, since he also assumed that the proposal for change would be expected to be submitted to this council. Hv. A deputy member of Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir got answers to a birthworm group from a minister who caused quite a disappointment. Time is not set for this working group to return. It is one of the principles that should exist when we are ordering groups to work within a set time frame, especially when discussing specific specific matters. You can ask yourself, " Why in the world did it not happen in this case, whether this group can take only the time they want? ' The staff found 18 times at the time when the query was answered and had not provided an account or anything. There had been no formality from him. This is one of the things that matters to the future, and some conclusion seems to be in the mind that raising the roof is a priority in the Chairman's opinion rather than extending the holiday period. We need to do both, I think we're clear. Whether we do it in steps that I expect is also important to me. It has been observed that young mothers interviewed at that time were in the process and when this inquiry was made, it was almost impossible to survive the income of a stock of births. Because of the low income due to this difference, one of those interviewed had to live at home. Then there's what I talked about earlier, i.e. that both parents can't take vacations. Because these things are more common than the others, we have to accept because many are broken pots. In fact, the number of babies in the past few years was reduced in the original - language language language, and they had never been lower. It is also true that with our increasing life spans, women have grown up on average when they have children, but it seems to be watching that fathers don't take birth metal too. I don't know if it's only our birthworm system that's involved or what causes, but it's clearly important. I think it matters, not just for young people, but for all parents. For people who don't use the system because the sum is not high enough, we also have to wonder how high they can be. Suppose you receive 80% of your pay at any time in the maximum phase. If you have one million or more per month, your birthworm will be damaged. Even though I always want everyone's right to take the job, I would like to see that even a few people with money and people who have their money have the opportunity to do so. I believe that those who have torn pay, a million or more, are more willing to take a birthmark than those who have less income, and especially the young people who are putting roofs over their heads, even at school and all running around the place. In this context, I'd like to remind you of our left-hand green proposal, which has been passed on the birthmark to the nursery. It's certainly a vision, but it's not a dream. I think there is also something that makes those who are less fortunate among them. As we all know, the day - to - day system is expensive, not necessarily just getting in. There are many things that we need to consider. First of all, I find this two things to be against the present government, i.e. that the insurance bill has not paid off what it was supposed to return to the system. As a result, the birth of a stock has cut down a lot, and he has been thrown with a tilt. It is clear that there is no way to raise holiday pay if it is observed. Since then, I have criticized the failure of the staff. Perhaps we need to call for it even more, following his return, as the situation is urgent and difficult to deal with, in many places, that could impair the opportunity of children to share with both parents. It is the basis for the ideologies of the obscenity system as it was laid out when the length was taken, when the three months between parents were due to be divided, when fathers were to take three others, they fell down. It was the basis for strengthening the child's right to enjoy association with his parents. I think the bill is part of what might be of the shortness of the fact that it could. Unfortunately, I do not assume that the matter will be resolved. I am deeply concerned that these matters are not priority to the government, which is part of what I described earlier. But that doesn't change the fact that we have to talk about it, and we have to deal with it, and we have to keep the government on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u59	A respectable president. I come up here to declare a definite support for this matter; it comes from the House of Congress, it seems to me. I can clearly see that there is a great interest in these matters at the Battle of the Year. There is a great deal of support for the plans set out in the bill to extend the period of birthworm and raise the roof of payment. I think the birth stock has come to a very dangerous place. We see in the numbers recently showing that people, especially fathers, have stopped taking a birthworm; they are simply holding back because they are too low. It's simply very bad. This is very bad for children, for it is not to be overlooked the fundamental goal of a birth stock to help children enjoy the most important exclusive association with both parents during the most important formative phase of their lives, and unfortunately, this goal is being undermined. If a father is reluctant to take a birthport because his payment is too low, he also succumbs to this important sex - equal goal of the birthworm, which is to contribute to the labor market's unambiguous message that the child's parents are usually two, perhaps with one exception, and that is a father and a mother. Both of these parents are to be active adults, and the work market is to view both as parents who come from work because of birth. This is also an equal case. I believe that in the setting of birth orloofs funds now a very good and crystal - clear example of how important it is who governs. It was necessary to cut into donations for the birth of orcs, as in so many other fields, immediately after a crash. This was done, as the report says, with a temporary arrangement, a arrangement that was arranged for me and four other members of the congregation at that time. I'm thinking that if you don't make a deposit of that deposit stock of insurance and keep it as unchanged, you'll see if it's a crisis or a good thing, and that your birth-corcuit fund is simply financed by this proportion of insurance fees, and you can store the money in the goods that he can use to pay for a crisis when you're worse. We have nothing to do with this, and I believe that we're supposed to make an agreement with parties at the labour market, the government and the union of the labour market, and the labour market parties, that the share of insurance fees that flow into the birth reserve is simply an adequate and guaranteed birthmark. That's my opinion. I passed those views when the first step was cut down to the birth reserve immediately after the collapse of 2009. I felt that there should be enough insurance fees to finance the fund at that time and that it did not have to be cut down. All right. There were certainly reasons for cutting down for obvious reasons. A huge hail lay ahead, and an incredible increase in unemployment and unemployment rates are financed by insurance costs, so, of course, this affected the scope. Yet, that was a temporary arrangement, and it was difficult. The government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir is to be praised that she took it seriously that this was a temporary arrangement. It went through a bill at the end of the last term, where it stood to correct all of this and to extend the birthworm in stages, and it was adopted here according to a lot of discussion. In the end of that case and in the setting of a birth vacation fund today, a crystal clear example shows that it is important to meditate on who is in control and that humans have failed in politics. In politics, it's very important to discuss politics, I think. What did the government do when it began? She did some very strange things. For example, she abandoned an investment plan that would have been very good for her. She backed up by these changes in the birth ordinary reserve. She backed them back. She decided to cancel this extension and actually increased the roof of her maximum payment by 20 points. Call but cancel the prolongation. Then you might ask yourself, " Would the government have decided to use the savings involved in risking the upkeep to reverse the insurance fee? ' No, the government didn't. There, by dropping off the extension, was created by drawing together donations for the stock of birth, up to a minimum of 10 billion allowances in the insurance bill. I think I'm on it right. I've got these numbers in my head. What, then, did the government use money? At the same time, the government reduced various types of taxes. Resources were reduced significantly; it brought a very insignificant drop in the intermediate level of income tax, which cost 5 billion, reduced the budget for tourism in the early worlds of high production time in that sector - it would have been good to have that money - introduced her plan to lay off a wealth tax, which is part of a controversial tax that would have been able to continue, a loss of sugar tax. The government took money from children, took money from those who are having children in this country, and brought money directly to the rich. The government could well have kept these plans to extend the orc, raise the cost, and, for example, refrained from reducing resource costs. She could have avoided lowering the intermediate step to the income tax. She could have avoided canceling the wealth taxes. She could also have refrained from going into a highly controversial debt correction, which dataed one of the richest peoples in this country. Thus, there are a number of things the government could have done to continue and stress the plan to extend the birthworm and could have gone up the roof. But the government chose not to do so; rather, the government went out of its way to abandon plans adopted by the council. It's just politics, that's all. This simply describes the emphasis people have. People sitting in the national part of the world can't come up with anything to say that they have the advantage of a feeding stock in particular. It can't say anything because it was the first thing the government did. So that's just the way it is. The case is on the committee. I have grown weary of seeing that conclusion. I think the need is obvious. It needs to be extended, and the roof needs to be raised. To reach that conclusion, I do not understand what needs to be done on many other committee meetings. So I say, too, and I want to reiterate my opinion that it should simply include a total of the government, rural society, the government and the labour market parties, employers' parties, and the employees' union, to ensure a breeding reserve to the whole future an acceptable percentage of this deposit system, which is an insurance fee, and then to think about it. Let us bear in mind that somewhere these costs will come; people will have blessed children. There was something else that happened in this government decision to cancel the insurance fee into the stocks' stocks, but this project went only to the local community in the daily press. It always goes there when this game is played, wondering the cost of such important social issues to the rural community. It was in this case. There's good reason to make this statement, find an adequate percentage of the insurance fees, put it in the stocks' orcs, let the stocks bridge the gap to the nursery, and simply think nothing more about it, leave these cases in good order.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u60	A respectable president. I'm coming up here, like what? A senator who spoke before me to express a firm support for the bill and to consider it a better person who has been entered into the council for a long time. I am one of those who were terribly surprised at the government's decision at the beginning of this terms to beat off what had been approved in the last government, which was a very ambitious, very ambitious plan to improve the status of those who have children and have to stay at home and need a maternity leave. This, too, tells you how abused you became during your last campaign. It didn't seem to apply to any home. The situation in these matters is serious, very serious. As for the staff appointed, I think he's about to get some results, hopefully. I understood from someone who works amongst them that they may soon begin to happen, hopefully, because it's very urgent that this case be resolved. I can say that, and that's why I wanted to share in the discussion because I have a personal experience with young parents today. In my community, for example, there is a very long waiting list for children to get into high school. Most of them do not get in until they are about two years old. It also results in a blockage of the day - to - day eulogy. Children can't go to daily care until they're about 15 months old. When the birthworm is just nine months, it leaves a huge hole in the entrance of families. My hometown is where working moms, and they got together a few weeks ago and sent letters to the local authorities to try to solve the problem, which is very serious. The situation varies in families. For example, one mother has been at home without pay for six months, and another has had to resign from her job because she is not able to care for her child and still others sit at home and rely on friends and family members who are not easy on just anyone. Speaking of expenses, who does it land on? Not all of us have access to grandparents or cousins to care for our children in order to get people to work. These Mom groups joined together and wrote a letter to the town government, as I said. I'd like to read that letter up here, with president's permission: Hello, fellow councilmen. Here we are some new parents in Grindavík, a maternity clinic (majestics) who want to point out the problem we face about getting back into the labor market after we are born. Since there are not enough space in the local theater schools, it also runs its problems to daylight. The birth certificate, as most people know, pays nine months to parents after a baby is born. Thereafter, parents are expected to be able to get back to the workforce and children in their daily care. This is not the case here in the family town of Grindavík. We, the mothers, in our case, will not be able to move back to the workforce immediately, as our children will not be able to reach their mothers until about a day's time. 15 months. This is done for about six months, since we have no income, no one needs to say how this will affect the home. Of course, the situation of families whose name is put on is different, but to give some examples, some mothers are beginning to work again, but their working hours are already totally dependent on family and friends, what they can take to care for, alone has left their jobs, some are not in trouble yet because of their young children's age, but see the way they are doing it, some have already been busy for six months, and still others have been able to solve their problems in a different way, but would like to be better off in town. This letter describes exactly how the situation is enormous in many areas. I don't know if it's appropriate to take an example of yourself. I have a new mother. She was left for only six months, since her husband had not been in the country for six months before the baby was born. So now she has been at home for five months without income, and she sees that she continues to do so because she will not be allowed to get a day's saving space until August, first of all. It tells itself that this is a huge problem that has to be handled. This bill will do so to some extent, but we, of course, have to work together to change the hysteria so that it will be taken into consideration. Then local communities and rural governments must cooperate with state and employers to solve this problem in order for parents to put their children in a preschool. That's very important. The bill that was approved during the last term was a tremendous ambition in indicating that we were approaching the nations around us in this regard, but we have quite a distance to land with it. I hope, a respectable president, the bill gets a good coverage and puts it through the council, because this is a very important case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u61	V.E.G. President. I wanted to come up here at the end and thank you for the discussions that have taken place here on this important matter. I'd like to thank the members of the left movement for offering the green and bright future for the firm support of the situation. But I have to say, Madam President, that I miss the senators of the Future Party and the Independence Party from this discussion, the senators who did not intend to cancel the extension of the birthworm, who have not expected to raise their maternity posts in spite of taxation and other such. Gluc tax deduction was more important than an increase in obstetricity. The reduction in fishing costs was more important than an increase in birthworm. This is an extremely important matter for family members, and the response to the bill has been shown. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for reading from the letter from the mother of Grindavík. The mothers of Grindavik are in the same position as many new mothers in this country who rejoice in having small children and their families, but who are anxious about what is involved in leaving their maternity. They also deal with the bitterness of the fact that their husbands or fathers of their children - of course, it is not always that people of either sex are dating children, but if we talk about the balanced friendship between men and women, women look forward to the fact that their husbands cannot take a birthworm too much because the family's financial situation is not in control of it. They can take two, three weeks in the child's life, but then family agree, because of the infamous sexual pay, that the man does not take a birthport because the family's financial situation is out of control. That's what women are standing before. It's a bitter feeling because it changes both the ratios and the workings of the family. This is economic pressures that are difficult when families are also adapting to new situations with a new child. And this keeps women out of a job market much longer than they care about themselves. So this is an urgent matter. We started this system. The independent group and the forwarding party should be proud that these laws were given during their reign, although they had a wide record of agreement. They should be more careful about this important law. But now each year the system is being undermined, and we fear that rebuilding it will be more expensive and more difficult every year. We've got to get started. And we're supposed to get started. We're supposed to send the message that we want young people to live in Iceland to see their future in Iceland and want to have children. It is precious to live in a society where children are welcome and children are born so that we can reproduce naturally. Finally, I would like to express concern for the committee's supreme authority. Eygló Harðardóttir ordered. To her, a used man, Birkir Jónsson, who was here. There must be more than nothing to be wrong with. I know it's not Birkir Jón's job, but there seems to be little political interest in increasing funding in the jury because it is not known when this committee will return the results. This was shown at a meeting on the welfare committee this week. There are some adjustments that need to be done. For example, birthworm laws have been criticized. when children are allowed to enjoy together only with one parent, since the other parent does not want to take a baby's or even want to spend time with his or her child, or where circumstances are so that they cannot. Or when there's only one parent, but the parent only gets six months, not nine, but hopefully 12 months when we legalize it, if we have a chance. When it comes to this, we're seizing children. This is something we must face, and we must deal with it. We try to limit the restrictions that are not being encouraged to release one parent, for it is, of course, one of the principles of the law that both parents share in raising their children. There are some of these adjustments that need to be done. But the big thing is extremely simple. It is to secure funds to raise the roof of payment and prolong the birthworm. There's no astronomy. It's just to say, "Yes, we're ready to prioritize money to a baby's parents. " And should not all of us be able to agree on this? I'm sorry, chief. President, seems to be the will of the current government. I hope that in today's debate, their apathy does not reflect their indifference toward the birthworm, and they join the rest of us in making this bill legal. Otherwise, I promise you that we will make this legal after the election. When groups that claim themselves to be at the well-being and equation and look to the interests of society, there will be power, we will ensure the prolongation and increase of the birthworm. But I certainly hope that this will come first because this is an important interest in the well - being of children and children's families in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u62	A respectable president. It is my great pleasure to speak up for this matter. It turns to government, i.e. Environment and resource minister, against policies aimed at reducing the use of hazardous consumer consumers and informing consumers about the existence of harmful substances and the impact of these chemicals on health and environment. Almost all the goods we use today, and many of the chemicals are harmful. Most of the substances have not been studied and have not been evaluated for harmful effects on health or on the environment. Until 1981, the others and these materials arrived on the market. When I talk about matter, it can be plastics of all types, defenses, insecticides, preservatives, fragrances, and chemicals in this connection. These may also be heavy metals. These are all the products that are put into goods in order to improve them in some way from the manufacturer's perspective, not necessarily consumers. If I take the sweater I have on, I think it's been used as a shield for cotton taps, for dyes in the factory, and for some clothes, the textiles or the material do not interlock. These substances are not innocent; they can lead to many problems. For example, they can affect the immune system, the hormone system, some are directly carcinogenic, and so on. What happened, and the reason why we are in a situation until 1981, was open without their having been examined. They were only produced, and then they were in all kinds of products that we use without our knowing how they affect us. In 1981 laws were passed in Europe that required producers to weigh all the new products available in the market. After the law went into effect, about 3 of you are thought to be. material has been marketed, but there are about 100 of you. market material that has not been risked. As I said, the materials can be of many ways, some of which accumulate in human and animal tissues. Then there are those that affect the hormone system that affect reproductive performance. One person is concerned that some of the other substances are responsible for increased infertility. We use products every day that contain such material. These may include cosmetics and cleaning materials, food containers, toys, and electronic devices. There are many chemicals in electronic devices, clothing, and the body. The European Union tried to straighten out the situation. It was a very important law set in 2007 called the Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authority and Resurrection of Chemicals. The purpose of the law includes the 100 of you. market materials will be listed in the database. In addition, risk assessment of substances produced or transferred into the European Economic Area needs to be performed unless there are sufficient data to assess this risk. The cost of falling on the manufacturer and importer The actual list of in-use materials has been prepared but found particularly dangerous, the ◯kand diats list wrote to him, or the Substances of Very High Concern, so I'll allow you to speak English, Madam President. These materials are specifically evaluated and are subsequently either prohibited or obliged to be applied for a specific license for their use. By the middle of 2015, there were 163 substances on the list. The consumers have the right to know if products they are interested in buying contain material on this list with some limitations, but so the consumer has to call for this information himself, and the seller has 45 days to answer. In fact, the consumers are paid little with this ◯ right, for this is more showy than with anything else. For one thing, an consumer needs to know that this list of harmful substances exists. He needs to know that harmful chemicals are used in consumer products, that is not something that everyone realizes, and that he needs to call for the information and be patient for 45 days while waiting for an answer and not buy the product. In some countries this has been managed by creating a program for smartphones or points to facilitate access to this information to consumers. Then they can scan the barcode label on the product and see what harmful material the product contains and whether it is on the list. In some places too, people have been creating a pampering of hormonal chemicals that are of particular concern to humans. This law was a major step forward. For example, when it was decided to do this, it was suggested that cancer would be reduced because some of these chemicals directly cause cancer. This was done for good reason. What is of particular concern is that these substances have also been used in baby products and toys, in plastics in various containers of food, and so on. There is reason to be very careful when it comes to children. In other parts of the North, a number of measures have been taken, but we have been incredibly asleep in this regard. There is some discussion at times, but I don't feel that the consumers have general knowledge that it might be worth looking for products that don't contain harmful material. I understand in a sense that consumers think, " Why on earth should harmful material be allowed? ' Is it not government or others who guarantee it? But that is not the case, because the producers have had their way too long, so we are left with harmful material, and we need to respond to it. One thing we know in Iceland, and it's a Norwegian partnership, is the environmental sign Swan. It is a witness that only the products that are most environmentally friendly and goods that contain as little undesirable material as possible. A product that is shown with the swan meets very strict requirements. Danir has been very interested in these matters, and the Danish government has been on the lead, and their actions are simply to be imitated. They were the first nations to ban certain types of saunas, which are plastic infectious agents. They banned the bispehnol-A drug in pets and food containers for children in 2010. A year later the European Union did the same. In 2013, the Danish government met with transpolitic consent to resorting to harmful consumers. For 2014-2017, specific advice was set up that included consumer organizations, industrial and government organizations, and they gave the Danish consumer organizations, Forbrugererådet, $17.5 million Danish firms to set up the project ◯Tækski set, which has the goal of informing consumers about the content of these substances in various consumer products. In Sweden the government has established long-term environmental policies that extend far beyond the terms of the term and are of great interest. It can be read on the website of the Swedish government. They have six main conferences, such as air quality, global warming, pure water, and such toxic environments, or a perennial term. This general policy is to improve research on the harmful properties of chemicals, improve the information flow to consumers, and promote environmental protection and human health. Under each policy, more specialized sub-targets are defined. There are eight of them in the category on toxic environments. One sub purpose, for example, is to reduce the impact of chemical products on children's growth and development. I think it's how Sweden sets up a model, their long-term vision of all environmental issues. In January 2015, the Norwegian Parliament agreed to make a government plan for a toxic, active day; this may not be a good translation of every three days. Among these measures, increasing monitoring of hazardous consumer products and better information to consumers is expected. It is stated in this motion that Dan and Sweden for many years had a policy in these matters, and it is time for the Norwegians to do the same, especially if it is important to protect children from the many materials they are designed for. The National Council has also called for a more effective policy on chemicals that protects consumers, and particularly children, and encouraged the immediate discontinuation of materials on the above - mentioned machine list. Iceland's government never seems to have shaped policy in this category or put capitals in such a special effort as known elsewhere in the states of the Netherlands, nor do it seem to be able to see that coverage of consumer consumers has taken place at the General Assembly, unless perhaps in connection with the implementation of EEA directives. In view of the lack of protection by consumer legislation and the overseeing of the manufacturer's interests, the responsibility of the government is not to ensure that consumers are properly informed. We know that there are far too many health - and - health and environment harmful substances, and it is also confirmed that many of them have health problems. Such information is entitled to consumers, and they have the right to make a conscious decision when buying products. It is government to make sure that it is. Transporters are from all categories, senators from the future and from all the other categories. We suggest that governments be designed to shape policies on how to reduce harmful substances and prevent them from having harmful effects on people and the environment. We suggest that other Norwegian nations, who have been taken the lead in this series of languages, be looked to. This matter is expected to be addressed to the Environment and Transport Committee. I think it's very important to have it in a review procedure. We are considering the effects of the substances on us when we use the products, the creams, or what it is, the laptops, but there is also reason to worry about the damage these substances are causing right away during production in those countries where products are being produced and legislation is lacking. It enables people to use the materials, even in protective clothing, and so forth, as well as harmful chemicals are allowed into the environment because there is not enough environmental legislation. Many of the workers who make the goods for us get sick because of their work. It's also a responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u63	A respectable president. I want to correct something I said yesterday. I received an mail from a speaker who pointed out that I had been using a piece of paper yesterday in connection with numbers, since I apparently concluded that 100 million times 10 are 120 million, which is obviously not right. What I was going to say and it seems to have been a mix-up in my breezes, I calculated this at the time, it is that a senator costs 10 to 12 million a year, and at times 10 is obviously 100 to 120 million a year. It's right here. It's right here. In accordance with the content of my speech yesterday and the conclusion, democracy is by no means expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u64	Madam President. I would like to participate in this discussion. I think it is a very good thing to shape a policy to reduce the use of harmful consumers. I wondered that the request has long been made and is requested to submit its course to the 2016 spring Summit, I think it's pretty clear that it's not going to work. There is a lot to do, and it may be a question for transporters and pioneers to try to find another date so that at least the case will not be salted on that basis. A lot of interesting things came out. We may not be aware of the number of material in our environment, the chemicals, and other material that directly affect us. It is shocking that some 3 thousand material is available after laws that do not meet the risk assessment, and that there are currently 100,000 products on the market that have not been risked. As an animal and human tissues are accumulated by an authority who can cause impaired reproductive organs, both hypersensitivity and carcinogenicity are listed, except for the resulting environmental damage. I agree with what the senator said earlier. Hypersensitivity reactions are not even taken into account when assessing additives in the diet; this is not one of the risk factors evaluated. We have become increasingly informed and more aware of what we do, feel that we are concerned about our health by eating wholesome food and choosing better there. At the same time, as the speaker said at the end of his talk, we are applying a variety of substances that penetrate the skin in the form of a manic and hygienic answer without wondering whether they are harmful or not. This will penetrate your skin and sit down in your body. It was a very interesting and good point that the senator made with regard to the working conditions of the people in the large world that produces most of the things we are using. I agree with the perspective on consumer rights, whether the product contains what is referred to here as a kandidate list, i.e. Especially dangerous. When you think about it, this has become a challenge for you. Maybe we're just so bad consumers that we don't make those demands. For example, we can name fast food, an enormous amount of extra food in large amounts, and we consume less food. If we do not know what material is harmful, we cannot avoid it. Maybe it's the first. Like what? A senator noted, as shown in the report, may not be able to handle the law as it is. If you have 45 days to answer, the consumer has long ceased to be interested in what he wanted to know. You do not exactly wait 45 days to buy a certain product just to know its contents, even if it can apply for some time. I found it very interesting that in some parts of Europe, using a smartphone hand or a program for it has been responded. That is one of the things that modern times call for. I think a large part of the country has a telephone that can scan the bar code of a product and that sort of thing. I think it's a very interesting approach, and I wonder why we can't record it. Is there anything that prevents such a adjustment? Or would we need to have something special in that context? I'm not sure. We're importing a lot of goods. But we may have to adapt to what is produced in Iceland. What follows is not only the increased risk of cancer and diabetes but what is stated in the report by the International Institutes of Women's Diseases and Child Welfare, released in October last October, shows that the massive amount of toxicities that come in contact with mankind can lead to increased infertility, apart from causing millions of deaths each year and resulting in social costs. This is also good what the senator mentioned as part of a campaign at the Danish consumer organizations, i.e. Educating consumers how to avoid harmful substances is also being referred to a smartphone program. Here are programs made for the day and the day in. This is one way we could go to try to inform people. Of course, it is based on a vast stream of information, i.e. A database is needed to process it. But I think that's what might be the most effective. In the Environment News, the Leading Aðalbjörg Birna Guttormsdóttir, bio-, environmental and resource specialist, has a fistula. It shows that health problems that result from the effects of chemical substances on hormone function are at the cost of the European Union's health system of 173 billion dollars. We must stop and wonder if there is anything we can do. And are we not under obligation to do something? I think that's the way it is. In fact, this is the first study to assess such costs and was directed by an assistant professor at the New York University School of Medicine. It speaks of material in our daily consumer products, such as the senator mentioned in bisphenol, which is found in plastic products and pawns, inside cans and in shop boxes. I thought it was interesting. It's not only in pawns and snorkels, it's in paint products and cash registers, much more than we think. I think there's an incredible amount of work to do. This is merely a plan, but I believe it and trust a minister to see fit to accept this synopsis, especially as it is transverse. Clearly, there is an interest in all groups that this will be examined, and all of us want to contribute to increased health and increased awareness of consumers. Madam President. I'm gonna do it for now, but I think it's very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u65	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit for recommending this matter and its associates. I'm here to celebrate this council mishap. It was February last year that I asked for a environmental and resource minister about the use of panels and was now a lot of people who brought it up into the joke, especially after I wrote an article on the big case. It was especially the media that reflected a bit of prudence when they focused more on the fact that these materials were used in the form of a sexual Dam other than the seriousness of the case, which is the result of these substances. I want to introduce exactly what was shown in the response of the Environment and Resource Minister to my inquiry and, in fact, has been associated with this Senate resolution, but it is that the damage has been known for decades. Although we may focus primarily on the use of the panel in objects, there is no requirement for meaningful description or risk markings of objects and the consumer is actually not given a choice whether to take the risk of using the product or not. However, the consumer can call for information, as it has been presented in the Parliamentary decree, and the seller has 45 days to surrender it. It is in response that the only way to monitor this is to analyze the product to verify its contents, but that such analysis is highly expensive and therefore it has not been attacked here on land. I think this is very serious, especially because the share of market stores is increasing with countries where it is thought to be higher inexpensive materials that have not gone through as much testing as research. Although the EEA monitors the reports of illegal products on the European market and results and markets in our neighbouring countries, it does not necessarily tell us that they come from exactly the same partners as they are being shopped through the Internet store. Then I'd like to introduce what is presented in the paper with the resolution and realize that legislation in this field has seen far too much of the manufacturer's interests, far more than the interests of the public and consumers. I would count as shown in the answer to the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister for my query that it is desirable for the EEA to at least occasionally inform products to ensure that they meet the requirements for them. I think we're throwing them away a little bit by just deciding that it's all too expensive. We haven't even checked to see if we can do some pop tests, how much that would cost us. The harmful effects of certain panels are known, they may include alter human fertility. These products are the most sensitive to the unborn and newborn babies, who have been found in cycles, slices, bottles, breast pumps, and other items used around the children and in the care of infants. Then a few years ago the discussion of these harmful materials and its use in plastic bottles, bridges, disposable plastic bottles, and so forth came up. So I don't think it's a subject to belittle or try to joke with. These substances are persistent and accumulate in our bodies. About 45 days from the manufacturer's appointment to answer which product could be harmful, I feel that the consumer needs either to buy the product and to wait in hopes and unlikely to hear whether it can harm him, or not to buy the product and try to look for something else or to go on a complex process, all to save some money in advance for research. In fact, we're pushing it ahead of us, research isn't going to be done until later, and only if you're looking for it. As indicated by the proposal, thousands of materials will be examined. There are now some who say that if you don't know two or more of your food stuff, you might want to cut them off. Then I ask: What about all the harmful substances that are found e.g. in the plastic containers we keep our food in? Shouldn't we have the right to know what we can find in them? There is a danger that people may have because of these products in consumer products and even consumer products that we use every day. As with recent talks, cancer, allergies, and infertility, there are, of course, notable diseases. But what about all the diseases and traits we do not associate with or feel that we do not have a simple study, but perhaps we do more simply research? Is it possible, then, that some people in society who are living with poor living in some way because of unintended exposure to or consumption of these materials? That cost will only come back on the government in the future. Rather, we should do research that I think is very important. In this discourse, we often talk about supporting human rights. At the same time, however, we are ordering more from less developed countries, where less control is done, with man and material being used, and where environmental protection is low. The cost of production is minimal, the use of chemicals, the worse substances, and the less expensive for experienced persons. And I'd like to agree that other northern countries and countries around us have done very well in these matters. I spent two years in the National Council, where these topics were often discussed, and not only on the environment committee, but also at a welfare committee, where they fully appreciate the impact these materials can have. It is time for us to take action. They have been very early in this regard and have taken a step against harmful consumer consumers. It is a question of whether we can look at them, but I like the direction they took so that governments in other parts of the North have also set a very good goal in these matters. It is noted in the report that it is not to see that a discussion of harmful consumers has taken place at the General Assembly, but it is not surprising, I know from my own experience that when it is done, it is demeaned. The fact that we are trying to warn people and to try to get governments with us and try to unite in thinking about the interests of consumers is, rather, a matter that is more focused on the fact that these material are in the minds that people feel they should not mention out loud. At the end of my talk, I would like to take heart to this suggestion that governments resist policy and try to reduce the use of harmful consumers and prevent the harmful effects they can have. I also agree with what. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir, who pointed earlier at the cost of the matter, found it possible to do so. It is our government to try to find a way to contribute to the health of our cities, but also not to throw away the opportunities we have to prevent future costs, we are more likely to take preventive measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u66	Madam President. I would like to thank you for a good discussion about this proposal. I think this is an incredibly important case. I was later than I planned to make that effort, but I wanted to do a lot of work on the report and keep it good and detailed. I worked on these issues, including I'm with the Neythal Society, so I know it. For example, the Neycessary League called a challenge to the local Food Minister who took this series to forbid BPA in pets, not to wait for the introduction to some EEA directive, but to be ahead. It was done. I remember already. A senator had his good inquiries to the environmental minister and how it was actually turned out in the media. I felt that I had no understanding of the importance of this group of paintings. Of course, that's why we're a little behind. In other parts of the North countries, policies and governments have shown understanding and direction. This means they're sent out a message to the public that it matters. The consumer organizations there are also strong and varied environmental organizations that have fought for this. We're about ten, fifteen years later, I'd say. But I think maybe now's the time to do this. I'm not sure that this council-sense proposal had been given a sound base ten years ago, it would've just been laughed at. I want to thank you for the discussion. For the proposal and dates, I'll ask the committee to look into it, she may change it as she pleases. I think it's important to get the case done. I have as much chance of remuting it in the fall as I am expected because we have come that far, but I think it's very important that we start a narrative process, and that's how we start it. I am deeply grateful for the interpolitic support in the case. I think we agree, and we should just put this through.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u67	V.E.G. President. I realize that this may not have been meant to be an answer, but I still want to agree with the carrier and say that it is clearly a failure. A senator worked hard on the report. It is a tragedy to think that in the past a challenge has been made to governments to start doing something about it, and we have not gone beyond the fact that we have finally stopped laughing at it and have begun to make plans. It's also a good point not always to be waiting for EU regulations. Why can we not just take the step like that of neighboring countries and decide that we are going to be ahead in these matters, that we are going to be one step ahead, and that we are going to block the well? And I want to agree that right now could be the right time, because we see that consumers have become much more enlightened. consumers today have more opportunities to get information about goods. If someone orders products from the outside, how much information is there to find on the Internet to see what's inside them. I hope we can get this case further, and I encourage the committee to try hard so that we can get on with it and not have to measure it again at a new assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u68	Madam President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 160/2008, for the services and knowledge centres for the blind, vision impaired and faint-blind subjects. It is a reimbursement for children's binoculars. I'm gonna start by checking the bill. It's in two articles and it reads: 1st par. After Section 4. The law's coming up with a new branch, Section 4. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Children's pool deals. The minister shall set up a regulations that require the participation of the State at the cost of wearing glasses. This includes: recommendation for: 1 children receive paybacks from wearing glasses up to twice a year to ten years of age, 2 children from the age of 11 to the age of 18 receive payment on wearing glasses once a year, $3.4 percent of the price of the eyeglass per price level and 75% of the price of the environment, 4 children to ten years of age, who need eyeglasses as part of their treatment regimen to develop as normal as possible, receive full payback for bifocals per year (eyeglass and environment) as you will be selected in consultation with an ophthalmologist or optometric specialist. The person in charge of visual impairment, on behalf of the State, looks for an annual display offer and a check at a glass pool hall, making a small amount of payment at the lowest price. 2.g. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2017. The rationale for this is as follows: This bill presents a change in law No. 160/2008, the service and knowledge centre for the blind, vision impaired and faint-blind subjects. It is suggested that the law be added to a new article that will make it clear that the State is involved in the cost of wearing glasses. The change aims to clear up government payment regulations so that children will be paid to buy two glasses a year to ten years of age. Children under ten years of age may require that they change their glasses more than once a year, and it is only natural that the State will be involved in the cost of wearing glasses twice a year during this age. It is also suggested that from 11 years of age and until the age of 18 years, the state participates in the cost of a single pair of glasses a year. The current regulation on the cost of eyeglass participation stipulates the State's costs to buy glasses of children two times a year to the end of the third year, every year from four to eight years of age, and every other year from 9 to 17 years of age. The change is to increase government payment by buying older children's glasses. It is suggested that the government's payer will be 75% of the bidders on the glasses and glasses provided by the party in the service of impaired vision made annually available. When it comes to children within ten years who need glasses in order to develop normal vision, they are expected to have 100% reimbursement, in fact, a part of medical treatment rather than a helper. There is no relevant requirement for updates or review of the amount of money due to prices and no such changes have been made since the implementation of the current Regulation in December 2005, as per Article. 335 to the 145th legislature. This has led to a loss of the value of public support of children's eye buy, in line with the inflation and purpose of the procedure, in some respects the courtyards. So I believe it is right to aim a pay interview at a certain rate of cost, just as I have at the front. I just want to review the minister's answer, because I sent a petition to the social and housing minister for this matter, i.e. reviewing the amount of reimbursement that has taken place, as presented in this article since 2005. A minister's response last November shows that a large proportion of the reimbursement, or more than 80% of the parents or guardians of children, is 7,000. and that this amount has not changed since 2005. However, a certain group of children and adults in this room, which I'm not particularly on and how many adults there are, who received in 2014 more than 7,000 dollars. due to more complex, more expensive vision. The Ministry believes that this group needs to be examined more closely, especially for further increases in reimbursement. At the end of the answer, it is stated that formal work in reviewing the position of those requiring more expensive glasses has not been carried out, but if it is the aim of the Service and Knowledge Centre for the current year, the regulations of the above regulations will be reviewed and there the centre will request the access of child - care professionals and other best - informed persons. The Ministry intends to account for the results of that work, assuming that they are in the future at the end of the first quarter of 2016, i.e. it should start running short. The latter part of this quarter is about to drop. I sure hope we don't have to wait long. I just want to go over it because I've traced the absolute value of the average value of the first glass purchases, in fact, a significant decrease from the Regulation when we look at prices and inflation. It is as if we know a big difference between eyeglasses and how far our strength goes. I have an example since August 2014. I'd like to go over the glasses, i.e. Just the glass, for 15,300 bucks. and the strength against 7,000, which means that the buyer pays 54.2%, or 8,300 bucks. Another more expensive example in which the glass costs 31,000, the size at about 25,000, the total is about 56,000, and the volume is only 7,000, and the buyer pays the price less than 50,000, which is about 87% of the cost. There is also an example of 51,000 glasses in glass. and the concentration of 11,000, however, is less than 79% of the cost factors. As I traced earlier, the minister's response to the number of children and adults who received a higher reimbursement is not divided. In Denmark, children and young people who are registered in ◯Synstresuret, there is a list of people with vision problems in ▪ Kennedy Century Centurys Šjeniks, who have the right to provide financial help because of their visual problems. These include children and young people of the age of 18. It refers to ◯serveveven, 153. ..... the duty of those who work in the government to distinguish the local government from the needs of children for support. In addition, 153 a, there's the expert physicians and the head of Social Affairs, if their parents or guardians' approval, to provide Kennedy Century information on children and young people under 18 years of age with a visual problem. With the approval of parents or guardians, the Agency can share information with the social, health, and educational authorities. The health and Precautions secretary may set up a code on the information administration of Kennedy Century. For conditions where a person is enrolled in Synsurest, it says that the criteria for registration in the visual registry are that the maximum vision in the eye is below 6/18, or 0.3. This group of children and young people need a wide range of visual devices, including corrected visual devices such as glasses and contact lenses. Despite eyeglasses, those on this threshold still have difficulty reading the book. So I continue with dance rules, it is stated in the social services law that rural or rural governments provide individuals with permanent visual impairment or medical eye problems to provide relief tools and goods according to social services laws. There have been a number of eye - eye discussions and a number of issues related to the service and knowledge centres, the eye doctors' union of Iceland, and the social community of Icelandic optometrists. In a conversation with a servant of the Service and Knowledge Centre for Blindness, Visual impairment, and Blindness, it was found, among other things, that the Regulation I have quoted here was about the participation of the State at the cost of glasses, No. 1155/2005, would be old by now. Since the amount has not changed, the pay ratio due to eyeglasses has, of course, fallen. We can then say that the Regulation does not really answer its purpose. We must keep in mind that the glass is always paid just because people choose for themselves, and they are the source of their expenses, and much of it can be at stake. For example, we see expensive transpospheres for small children, soft and flexible, but this does not mean that they can break. In fact, all the majority of children do not need very expensive glasses, both because their vision may not be very bad or abnormal, even though they need glasses. However, it is a small group of children who see very badly and have abnormal vision. They often need highly specialized glasses, and they become very expensive at the same time. Based on information from the Service and Knowledge Center, we were told that the fixed amount given for glass buys that amount will shake when the children have to buy glasses for them. I also had a meeting with Brynhildur Ingvarsdóttir, a child expert and the head of Iceland's eye doctors' union, and a Dr. Elínborg Guðmundsdóttir. There we wondered what it really was and what it would have to change. The eye doctors agreed that the greatest reason to make changes to the group of children who need glasses for treatment of visual problems is to make changes. It was noted in their case that at the age of four, some children are screened for specific visual defects and are always diagnosed with visual defects, but that group is not very large. The children's vision is growing to eight, nine years of age or so, so it is very important to assist children who need help during that period. That's why I suggest it's ten years old, so we're clearly covered. This is the time period of visual development that is largely indicated and can be prevented if appropriate treatment is administered. Part of the children needs animal glasses to fix their vision. These are the children who need glasses as part of their treatment. There I suggest there will be 100% reimbursement, if not an aid. These are children who have very poor eyesight or whose eyes are very unevenly focused. During our conversation, the ophthalmologists called my attention to children with very special diseases. We discussed that problem too, i.e. These extreme pressures on our eyeglasses, perhaps we can do something about them too. Children's vision matures between the first eight and ten years of their life. During those years, nerve pathways develop in the central nervous system and in order to have normal vision, a clear image is needed to penetrate the retina through the cornea, lens, and vitreous humour. After that year, it is difficult to correct visual development, e.g. Because of a lazy eye. The most common cause of visual impairment in one or both eyes is the eye in children. Official data have shown that in North America, the incidence has been estimated to be 2◯4%. It is very important to treat the lazy eye before the period of vision is over. The sooner it is done, the better the results will be. If left unchecked, the damage is permanent. It is vital that children in such a situation become blind, not being able to provide appropriate help, and financial support may even reduce medical treatment in this context, in the form of simply not being able to buy glasses. Other problems that can prevent normal visual development, if not cared for, are for the development of a path of light. In this regard, there is a cloud of the lens that we often associate only with old people, a sickle of eyelids, or what is called hagangioma on our eyelids. Cataracts require treatment during the first weeks of life. There are also cases of visual defects, which leave the child unable to see clearly in one or both eyes and need glasses to develop. Nevertheless, in this context, I want to remind you that nurses - they and doctors after the birth have made sure that the eye responds and all that - take the first sort of visual test at the age of four, which is being followed and later accepted by a school nurse who observes through traditional opinions at school. Of course, this is very important. A final project carried out by French Hrafnhildur Björk Guðmundsdóttir for a BS nurse shows that since September 2009, 1,582 are blind or have visual acuity in Iceland. It refers to the Service and Knowledge Centre. Of these, 133 are children and 102 are preschoolers, or between the ages of six and seventeen. When I spoke of the 800 people who received more torn payments, these figures are likely to give some picture because they children are in a much smaller section to be reimbursed. It also states that over one in a thousand children, i.e. In this country, 0.1% of those born have eye defects, optic nerve defects, or visual centres in the brain that cause loss of vision or blindness. About five to six children with visual acuity are born in the country each year, of which about one or two were blind. A respectable president. If I draw up what I think most is what I need to keep in mind when this matter is addressed, the vision of a small group of children does not develop normally unless they wear glasses. Such glasses can be expensive. It is very important that we support these children to gain normal vision, and in these cases the glasses are really part of medical treatment. This is especially true for young children, i.e. children between four and eight, nine, or so. Second of all. The amount of money to buy glasses for children has not changed since 2005, i.e. A decade ago, it's been ten years, and it's been rising in ten years. Because of changes in prices, support no longer serves its purpose. The average amount of drug use for children has fallen substantially from the concentration of glass buy, and it has reached a reduced number of them reaching that right. Third, please. By hiding a blind and visually impaired service centre or other government agencies to provide proposals for eyeglasses and forcrowds, you should be able to stem excessive pressure on eyeglasses and innuendo. A respectable president. Its vision is very precious, so it is important to protect it as well as to deal with children who need special provisions that can keep them from blindness. I suppose the bill will go to the welfare committee - actually, I did not want to check it before going on a public talk chair, but the president will correct me if not - at least for a review. So, of course, I hope a minister brings the results soon and introduces them from the Knowledge and Service Center, because I think I've had a lot of work to find out where the defect is and what it takes to fix, except for the simple thing to update the pay ratio from 2005 regarding these changes to meet those children at this age to prevent them from simply waiting for permanent vision damage. I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for taking this case and providing a bill to correct a change in the law of the service and knowledge center for the blind, impaired vision, and faint blindness. I especially welcome the fourth, which says that children from ten years of age who need glasses that are part of medical treatment will be fully paid. I grew up with glasses, and I know that glasses are very expensive, and not enough but are a lack of vision and a lack of vision. Thus, each family often needs to pay off their glasses. Glasses for glasses like me cost in the range of your 50 to80. and children need to be renewed every year because they grow very quickly and their vision changes. So it's a bill that needs a lot, and I'm very happy to see it here at the council. This is something we should be working on, especially when things are going well in the community and things are on the rise. What a wonderful assignment the Kingdom is to take in! Many people have to wear glasses at some point in their life. You're right. A senator pointed out that the first years of children's lives are important when it comes to the development of the optic nerve and the brain, which is the natural basis for a successful life with a better eyesight. So it's a great deal, and I wish it were well-being. I hope it gets through the committee and all the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u70	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the termination of the law at a time of rest. The movers are the ones that say here, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, and why. Senators Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson and Sigurbjörg Erla Egilsdóttir. The bill's not complicated. 1st par. it is as follows: Laws on Mayday Peace, No. 32/1997, out. In the 3rd. is the following text, with the permission of the president: ▪ At the value of these laws, the following change in law will be about 40 hours of work week, No. 88/1971: 1.mg. Section 6. The law says: Sundays are Christmas Christmas Christmas Christmas Christmas Christmas Eve. 13 Christmas Day, second day of Christmas, next New Year's Day. 13, New Year's Day, Judgment Day, Friday's Vow, Easter Day, Second Day of Passover, Day of Pentecost, Second Day of Pentecost, Sunday, May 1, May 17, and June 17. This bill suggests that a law of holiday peace should be removed. The aim of the law is to preserve the sanctity, to ensure peace, quiet and rest, and to limit the recreation of people on the holidays of the National Church. Transporters do not see reason to limit the freedom of the people by law, so it protected fines to stand, such as bingo, lottery, dance, or other meetings on the holidays of the Church. Vague rights and rest time are guaranteed in collective agreements, but in order to improve the quality of the payer's days, it is submitted to a word change of 6 g. the 40 - hour work week, so instead of saying that the holidays of the Church are days off, days will be listed in the law as legal holiday days, according to my list here. Icelandic society has made great changes in recent years and decades. For example, the composition of the population has changed dramatically in matters of religion and study of life. Then the flow of tourists into the country has increased greatly, especially at Christmas and Easter. So it is clear that while Iceland is marketed as a destination for the holidays, most restaurants and camps are shut down in the holy days. As a result, the demand for changes in the holiday law has become louder for the past loss, with great interests at stake. Thus, officials in trade and service have publicly declared that the law needs to be revised for holidays and has been called a child of their time. It is necessary for employers to decide for themselves whether they will have an open date, but in agreement with employees and in accordance with the requirements of collective agreements for resttime and stress. These views are not isolated from stakeholders; they have also been heard from the ranks of the National Church. It has been suggested that the law does not take into account the community. It has also been noted that the Church does not take any care of whether the law is being followed and that the law has not been strictly carried out. Transporters believe that there is a solid solid solidarity in the community that the holiday law needs to change. In view of the previously mentioned changes in society's beliefs and beliefs in people's lives, as well as in the light of the major tourist flows to the country, the laws for vacation peace are out - of - date, and the time has long come for the modern economy. The purpose of a law on holiday peace is to make sure that people who wish to practice rituals on Sundays and holidays get peace. Transporters believe that there is no reason to limit people's freedoms in certain days just so that other people can get them peace to practice rituals. It must be against the free society we want to value. In addition, the larger flow of tourists makes it more necessary for them to make changes in their daily calendars. Vacation and rest time are already guaranteed in collective agreements, but as noted earlier, transliterators submit word changes to the law of work 40 hours a week to ensure a right to vacation days. A respectable president. I think it is proper to assume that the objective of this bill is to provide freedom against a ban that is present because of the laws of vacation peace, and I believe that work rights and rights of staff must be guaranteed by collective contracts and laws of about 40 hours of work week, not by law specifically thought out of holidays. Certainly, the carriers of this bill do not consider it necessary to ban bingo and various items in these days to ensure staff rights. Much more than that, they have rights at home in another field. Some misunderstanding has taken care of this, and maybe normal, but I'd like to think that if this bill contains some defects when it comes to the righting of the staff to rest, workload, work time, or something like that, I'm sure it's a matter of response to a committee's discussion on the bill. Of course, the movers will look at it with an open mind, for the aim here is to eliminate the law primarily and eliminate it in time of rest. The objective is not in itself to affect the rights of the staff. To this I would finish my case, a respectable president, and look forward to seeing what will be done on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u71	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the New World Health Organization. The movers of the proposal are also at the same time. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Haraldur Benediktsson. The suggestion is that the Council conclude to hide the highest. Healthcare Ministers to appoint a group who will see how to promote the health services of Western countries and to increase its budget with the objective of protecting the operation and reducing the pressures of land hospitals. This proposal, submitted in the fall, pointed out that the work force would produce results no later than in April 2016. After my speech and discussion are concluded and the case has been referred to a committee, it is likely that a review of the date suggested in the proposed suggestion will be made. I'm going here, with permission of the highest power. President, a little review of the series of articles provided with this proposal. It says: This arrangement is designed to strengthen infrastructure, to promote activities, and to protect the activities of the Western Institute of Health. In this context, we are talking about all the personnel involved in this proposal, all the work centres that are listed in the Western Institute of Health. Its largest units can be found on Aranesp, and there are also a very powerful back department and a variety of other activities in Stykkisolmi; to protect Western Health Organizations; and to reduce the pressures of land hospitals. This is because during the past few years, land hospital pressures have increased dramatically. There have been agreements in many clinics around the country, and several years ago, there has been a close - up in the field, and then there has been division in Keflavík, and in Selephos. In addition, in the past few years, because of various circumstances, it has been more difficult to make time for health - care professionals than often before. In too many cases, people have had to consult an emergency hospital. We transporters believe that land hospital pressures can be reduced by promoting these institutions in particular around the capital and moving, for example, projects that do not require emergency services. It is suggested that a minister establish a team of members who are involved in identifying the activities of the Agency, which, as said to the National Institute of Health, give detailed support to the ideas and suggestions on how to promote the work and increase financial resources to the Agency. The progress of the work force is emphasized, and it is suggested that the results be submitted no later than in April next year, in the report, for this year. The U.S. National Institutes of Health have had to undergo a difficult cut. Following the collapse of the bank, painful haphazard and cutting operations were required on the Agency. One department at Aranesp has had to be closed and jobs have been lost, as well as gathered by other institutions of the Agency. At the same time, the pressures of land hospitals have increased, as well as some of the economic and cutting requirements that have not been carried out after the collapse. During the past few years, we may have to keep on doing this. Transporters point out that one way to reduce the pressure is to bring up measures that do not require emergency health care at the health care facilities near the city of Reykjavík, which can be identified as a health care facility in Western countries at Aranesp only 45 minutes away from Land Hospital. It has also been suggested that most people who are familiar with it will be able to travel between Reykjavík and A Aranes in another way and not take long to visit here. In addition to this, the movers consider it a reason to make the National Institutes of Health for the National Hospital. I'd like to talk about it for a minute. These Member States believe that the areas of the health institutions of Western countries on Aranesp are a very suitable region, since such events are not affected and not at risk. If something happened here in the capital area, we would need to have a hospital near the capital area, which would be prepared to handle if we needed emergency surgery. The growth and level of the Agency's services in Western countries is of importance to the citizens of the Westland. Therefore, it is important that the Agency's activities be attacked in total, with the promotion being guided. That's where we come to something that I just want to talk about. At the U.S. Department of Congress. Health Minister is working on a health plan for Iceland. It would even be an idea to examine the objectives of the concierge proposal in line with that health plan and what aspects we are watching in the preparation of a health plan for Iceland. So I would like to quote a question I sent to the highest level. Minister of health at the days when I asked about the work being done in the medical programme and when it is scheduled for this work to be completed and for its members. At the same time, I ask, " Am I considering the ideals of age, population, population development, health - care facilities, and the services we are going to perform in many medical institutions in many parts of the country? ' I believe that we need to take a specific look at it because we need to do what I know is being done, our clinic and our health institutions in the country that the patient's first stop, that patients do not enter an expensive service, which is included in the Land Hospital, that they go to a greater extent into the institutions that are closer to their environment, where there is not as expensive service as afforded to the National Hospital at a local hospital for special care there. I propose that the Council's Conspiracy proposal be passed. At the end of the discussion, the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u72	V.E.G. President. Agrienvironment schemes have been discussed during the past few weeks in Icelandic society following signing new agricultural contracts. And it looks like it's who. Many claim that it is time for agriculture to receive less material support than has so far been the case. Whatever the case, it is clear that in any case, we must give Icelandic farmers the opportunity to have the tools and tools available to provide practical management. One thing that can be done in this regard is to improve milk production stock in Iceland. That's why I make this suggestion, which is why. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils. It may be that during the last legislation, there was a reason. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Bjöll, also the candidate for the proposal. The primary objective is to use the agricultural sector, which is in accordance with the decision-making of the Commission's forward-of-the-view and independent groups, which deal well with these matters of agriculture. Clearly, in order to achieve continued economy, improve competitiveness, and lower price prices, the article needs to prepare for an increase in foreign competition, thus providing resources. The EU policy of offering cows to 2021 is set to ensure a safe supply of high quality milk and milk products for Icelandic consumers at a good price, to maintain a good image of Icelandic bovine farming, to promote the competitiveness of the article, and to make profitable exports. That's the goal of cowhouses. We know that there has been increased demand for dairy products before loss. It was famous when all butter was growing up in the country because the Icelanders only changed their consumer ways and wanted to eat more fat. Then, in fact, Lavalsamala moved in three containers of Irish butter to cheese, which were, in my opinion, one of the biggest mistakes ever made by that quality company. But it is clear that we must be able to respond when demand increases. Our cow stock isn't big. The 2011 statistics show that this time there were more than 25,000 dairy cows, less than 26,000. That year, there were about 680 cows making milk. I believe they're about 650 today. Our family came to the country with land miners, and the Icelandic cows have not been mixed to a great extent with other cattle families, for we are isolated here on the island. As we examine the statistics, how this isolate is producing products, it is clear that the Icelandic cow stock does not achieve the production achieved by other countries. Although in recent years there have been some increases due to sex reform and improved feeding, the production of produce is considerably inferior to that of nearby cows. And much more. Based on the statistics available, the average products in this country are similar to those in Scandinavia around 1980, so we are far behind our neighbors. In 2013, the average Denmark was 9,603 kg per year. The average size is about 14,000 pounds a year, but the average Icelandic cow in 2013 was 5,555 kg. But once you've taken that number and corrected for your fat and protein content - we have to compare the numbers correctly. In the Senate document, in the proposal for interpretation, you can look up a comparative picture showing these figures black in white. When you have a small population, there is a risk of family development. There is a so - called relationship index, which is 9 percent in Iceland, and it feels higher than any other country. It must be ensured that related culture does not result in the collapse of the cow strain, i.e. that he does not fail because of a relative's responsibilities. While there are differences in how experts feel about how far we are involved in this material, some claim that we have come to a maximum point in taking risks in dealing with each other. If further efforts are made to reduce family life, this will only be done by reducing production; less emphasis will be given to this point. This suggests the story of technology development, but as you know, hip slaves have been pushing themselves to bed in recent years here, and are widely used and really altering the working environment in their daily activities. It is noteworthy that in our neighboring countries, milking with hip slaves is far more efficient than in those around us. Thus, according to the above - quoted survey, some Icelandic farmers spend an average of one and a half hours a day in a servant's house - to - house service, while serving a servant half an hour a day in equivalent to a foreign survey. Clearly, a huge investment involves turning the country's flocks into a robotist pit, and many farmers have made major investments and are preparing for heavy investments. Then it is crucial to our business as to how it works. It is hard to see that in 2013 the use of each hip servant averaged 230,000 litres in this country while the use of it is considerably higher in Denmark or about 650,000 litres. Then we're talking about average numbers. Iceland's agricultural university appointed a team at its time to review the success of changing cows. In short, the evidence was that there is strong evidence to improve the use of new cow sex, higher meat production, lower morbidity rate, and lower hip function. The results of a study show that in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, the average cows are far less successful than cows in Denmark, Norway, and as far as milk production is concerned. It remembers a lot of different milk. But cow farmers can improve their overall survival by increasing their share of cows. There is a good review of the studies that have required which cow sex is suitable for import here. But we do not suggest in our own case that this is relative to something. We are not unique prophets as to where the future will lead us in this regard. When the European Union of Cowhouses applied for permission to import the DNA of human bullies from Norway, it was requested that a risk assessment for import be carried out and it was carried out. For example, they were trying to assess the danger of transmitting infectious diseases with these chemicals from Norway. The result is clear. There is a risk assessment of the Food Agency. Based on these findings, there should be a low probability for this to occur. There are various possibilities to import the seed. Technology has advanced, and now people in our neighboring countries have sexting seeds so that you can be sure that the best dairy cows come with heifers, etc. So there is much you can do if you want to do that. It is reasonable for us to assume that a trial project must be discussed so that we take our steps carefully. It has also been a significant subject, and it was discussed at a time when the application was presented in cowpents, that it would be foolish to destroy the Icelandic strain. But this is not to be done. There may be counter-reactive measures, and some Icelandic farmers may choose to stick to the Icelandic cow sex. But it is our motivation here to the marine eco-efficiency minister that counter-servation and protection action will be undertaken as well as the contribution of a legal bill on this. That's what I'm asking for, chief. President, this case goes on to the pro committee to treat.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u73	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask the senator who makes this suggestion if she has studied what appeared on the cover of February 11, i.e. In 2015 a new international record was set by one of the Icelandic Mexican servers. Illustrating milk came from 31.1% 2013 - a year that is a year in the synonym's essays referred to and I are counting obsolete numbers today - to 37.2% for last year. I also ask if the senator studied the results of a survey made by the National Association of Cows and the Icelandic cow farmers. Among them was the question: What do you think is the best way to speed up genetic progress in the Icelandic cow population? But 59.6% of Icelandic cow farmers responded: Using all goods, we will lead to production of the Icelandic strain without any preparation. I believe this is a very specific account of Icelandic cow settlements. The senator also spoke in his history of changing his consumption by consumers. At the same time, however, farmers changed their productions, for it was published that farmers would be paid full price for all incorporated milk. Farmers went to more nuclear plants and increased use of cow farms, and this certainly proved, since domestic production last year was met by the most successful production. It's never been put in so much milk before. That was 146 million. A litre of 12.5 billion. a quart more than a year before. There was also an increase in farms. I think it's unnatural that the proposal indicates the handling of the case, i.e. This refers to a mechanism that was rejected when the import of the sperm of human partners was discussed. I just want the senator's opinion on these points.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u74	V.E.G. President. Of course, I have studied the contents of the farm paper. Like all good Icelanders, you read it every time it comes out. But that does not change their numbers and the results of tests already available about the past. We do not make decisions based solely on short-term outcomes. I want to ask you why. In contrast, a senator is not concerned about the voices and the scholars who claim that related culture in the Icelandic strain is too much. Does the senator not believe that a climax is reached regarding how far you can go in that regard? The findings of scholars point to this, and we need to listen. It is true that since the 1970's we have achieved increased growth in production, including feeding. That's right. However, research and scholars have also noted that this trend is not endless. It is impossible to assume that this will bring additional benefits. Or I'll be glad to hear it. Congressers allow themselves to get involved in the discussion and wait for the subject to be arranged. But I sure hope this case gets positive publicity on the job committee. With regard to the poll, it is not that the person here is controlled by polls. It's simply because of the convictions I present at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u75	V.E.G. President. Since the senator talks a little about the once and for all, there was a tip for me today regarding this misunderstanding in the connection with the synonym that follows the Convention's Reconsistendency Act, which speaks of a total of 9% in the Pentateuch. Those who have been learning this subject feel that it is meaningless, since they are more likely to see an increase from year to year and measured in an active stock size. It is considerably higher in Iceland than in foreign institutions, but it is inevitable that even if there is no breeding, the population is not infinitely large. That is equal to here on land and abroad. I am not just talking about the results we have achieved in recent decades. I'm talking about the success we've achieved right now. I believe, first of all, that it should have been ambitious to update the report with the out - of - date numbers there. As to the fact that domestic production does not result in the demand for domestic markets, I also feel out - of - date by the situation in which MS has published that they will pay full price for the milk throughout this year. Unfortunately, apparently, it's going to be a problem at the Galatice after that, what they're going to have to give to farmers. I think maybe we should focus more on it now, because it also shows that it's not forever. Last year, the first kine of 12,500 kg or so was about eight of the tops of 12,000 kg. On average, ten of the U.S. tops were seven thousand and five hundred pounds [7,500 kg] after the embargos. I'd like to finally ask the senator how she feels this should become part of the Rio Convention. I've been talking to foreign farmers who've been to Iceland. While I was studying at the National Farm University of Iceland, I took them to school school and told them about this discussion. [[The president calls.]] They said: For God's sake, for the Finnish cow is dying after it was done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-10-86.u76	V.E.G. President. I trust that a professional health committee will obtain the latest information in the progress of the case on the committee. Now, as to the state of Congress, this matter was proposed on autumn days when the council was meeting, but due to the development of the matter, it is only now that I have the opportunity to recommend it here at the council Hall. I hear that the senator is not worried about the fact that he has grown small and has become closely related. I have to say, it grieves me a little bit that men don't want to take this scholarly concern seriously. It is not that you should have the irrefutable view that you do not want to listen to the counsel of others. I understand exactly what the senator is saying about keeping the Icelandic cow family clean. I have heard the talk of the Guðni of Ágústsson before. But that does not mean that we cannot do both. The final chapter of the proposal is referred to, and we are suggesting here, that a minister also engages in countersurgent and protective measures, including the Rio Treaty. Of course, our found is remarkable. It's remarkable to have been isolated on this island for centuries. It's very important. But that does not mean that a plan can not be created that can be worked on in order to protect it. Of course, we can learn, among other things, from the experience of our neighbors, who have failed to prepare such proper adjustments.
