ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u1	In a letter dated March 15th, the president has requested this at the Commission and Observation Committee, as per Article 8 of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress, that it deals with a report on the State Reconsistencies on negotiations in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u2	A respectable president. We senators are in this peculiar position, and may be told all of the nation that we have certain data regarding privateisation of banks with the value of hundreds of billions of dollars in a secret room where each member may enter alone and examine the information that is available in a foreign language. Today, it is an enormous act of hundreds of billions. I've felt that people might discuss this, I don't say lightly, but I'm going to take care of it with certain persons who have been prominent in this discussion. Of course, the case is much bigger than that. This is about whether it could be that information like this is not open to the public. Now there is no doubt that what is about to go to banks, certain individuals, and so on, the nature of the matter is in harmony with the fact that it is beneath the bank. But we have to go over it well, and we have to go for it. The legal committee has done so, whether we can work in this way. In this case we were moving property, and it has been crediblely confirmed by the SEC, which was government property, which was transferred to the swelling farm. Laws were changed so that an swollen body could gain a bank that was not legally permitted. We can't deal with this in my opinion as was supposed to be done to Icesave, but at the time we were told why. Councilmen that these contracts should be kept secret. It's kind of ironic that we first saw it on the Internet before we got the big contracts that protected the nation's interests. [[The president calls.]] In this case, of course, there is a great deal of interest in the nation, and it cannot be offered to the public and the nation that this is in a secret room that only members of the council can enter and examine these data. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of the use of funds we contribute to technology, research and development. In recent years, we have seen a large increase in financial contributions to development, 2014 being less than a billion in technology, 2015 being less than 1.4 billion, and in 2016, it is 2.3 billion. I'm glad we're giving the extra money for this important work, but I also wondered what our priorities are on. I think that we need to look beyond our ability to think and act on these topics, and we're also looking at the funds that can be used to pioneers, the people working on the ground. We were deeply aware of this during our last district week. A motorist west at Isafjord, 3X steel, a developing company that has now developed and produced important instruments for fishing. We have a magnificent company called Marel and others in this sector, but these companies are having a very poor time approaching these funds in order to develop products that can make a great deal of money. The budget committee of this week also provided interesting figures on how we are using these funds and where we are using them. It shows that 92% of our financial resources are used in the capital area. In fact, the funds we tend to look for are about 78% of the money assigned to the capital area to develop equipment and research in the marine outlets to increase the value of the marine sector. Mr. President. We need to pay very careful attention to the use of these funds and to what emphasis we are placing with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u4	A respectable president. I believe that there is reason to call attention to a committee party that was discussed in the evening for this week, i.e. Assessed by a change proposal for a synonym over a new investment policy. I think there had been a time when this delicate group had come to the attention that under this committee it was written by members of all councils on a professional committee except Bjart's future. So we came to create a lot of solidarity. Since pizzas did not join us in that discussion or in that work, they are not on the paper. But it says that we get together on the big lines in which we're going to look at the real economy in the country in the next few years and decades. We're dealing with big-time and energy-related industry. We come together to see how the slopes of the land are generally in comparison with specific areas, especially on the southwest corner, and we place great emphasis on seeing if we are going to reverse the development that we have seen during the past few decades, where professional areas such as the seawaters and agriculture will not play a solid role that they have performed in the last few decades. Something new needs to happen. We take into account Iceland's targets on greenhouse gas emissions and how important it is that we have this in mind for all our future decision making. We also address what is going on too often at the council, i.e. magazines are placed against one another, rather than thinking about themselves and allowing them to grow and thrive in their own fields. [[The president calls.]] For example, we call carbon emissions, that there will be more carbon emissions in the transport of tourists to and from the country than from the metropolitan region. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u5	Mr. President. There are two peoples in this land, a little power, and a little sheep, all over the land. The public is always seeing better and better. When it is normal for a prime minister to have his family's money in a foreign tax field and the highest. The prime minister will not let his people know why he chooses to do such things as his family, how on earth he will build trust between his people and the top officials of the country and the politicians? If the government believes that their position to increase their money and place it in foreign taxes, the common people in the country should have their money here and try to survive this community, under circumstances that prime minister does not trust himself to live, in financial and economic systems that are being built up, and tailored to few, but not all, how to build up trust? Of course, there is not much trust in the public in the country and vice versa. At the General Assembly, we demand that Prime Minister step forward and account for his affairs. Countless questions have arisen and will come up about these matters. We are to require the prime minister that he treat the council with the minimal respect and the whole nation to understand why the land is being divided into two nations, the power - headed, and the sheep - black masses of the common people who are to live with everything else but that of power in this country. That's very serious. We left men want to build on an equation and that the public will enjoy the fruits when we are getting out of the economic crisis, but this poor government is heading in a very different direction. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to get her out of here as soon as possible and she's supposed to resign. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u6	A respectable president. V.E.G. During these days, the prime minister is not seen much at the council. He's probably somewhere in good shelter, not just with his family's resources, but with his mines or grenades that he throws into his discussion from his safe haven. One of the most recent proposals is that of the new location of the Land Hospital, which was certainly blown up in the medical discussion and the plans established to correct the miserable situation of the local hospital. Almost no matter where the government study is in these days, it seems to be at hand, and its discussion of swelling - A respectable president. It would be nice to get a sound in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u7	The president agrees very highly with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u8	Thank you. Finally, we agreed. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The government seems to have come to its feet, and it's all about it. No matter where you look. If we look at property policy, we'll see a debate about selling banks and how they're going to work. Housekeeping, it looks like the government's possession has to save the highest. Social Affairs minister in this case and establish a new housing system because it does not seem to be the independent party to do so. For the council, there is a bill about learning from the private sales of alcohol, called a wine bill. If a law was made by the administrations here, it could result in the Supreme Court. A health minister would have to resign as the highest responsible responsible responsible for the current alcohol - defense policies and the institutions of the Ministry that have strongly opposed that bill. In travel, nothing happens. The number of accidents increases when tourists do not hear a puff heard from the secretary's study that handles that subject. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing happening in transport. No transport plans are in effect. A respectable president. The infrastructure is crumbling, not just in the transport system, but in the community itself. This shows that today there is a huge gap between the government and the general public in this country. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u9	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss the economy here. Yesterday, if we look to a close future and development on that subject, the major international Summit was Iceland's Summit, and very important and decisive things for the nation's economic situation. True, there are bright times but difficult times at the same time. In speeches at the highest. The secretary of finance and the bank manager reported that following a deportation offer, a relative rapid removal of domestics would be possible. It's very important, and it's supposed to be a celebration. Other interesting facts were made at that meeting, a dignified president. The late bank manager announced a reaction to excessive influx of funds due to growth change, binding equipment, or tax equipment that should be active here when the seas are removed and not unnecessary, and is an important merit support tool to protect against inflation and national instability. You wonder, though, if at the same time, less interest and interest rates would not work for the same goal that would benefit them from their home and employment. The results are very obvious: It would stimulate demand here and increase private consumption and expansion. I can't believe this in the form of a growing exchange that will cost a great deal and can threaten the gangs of export workers and financial stability that we can't achieve the same goals with a lower interest level mixed with the resources that I insist on being an important addition to the armory and giving us additional opportunities to achieve balance and maintain the level of merit I've had. The project ahead is an expedited economy of money and government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u10	President. I'm going to be shocked by the way I'm going. Prime Minister in the Hospital case, if I may call it this, of the construction of the Land Hospital. Sometimes it seems like the highest. The prime minister did not realize that his words still have some weight, and people take them seriously. For those who control this important organization of ours, it is of utmost importance that they are absolutely certain that plans for the construction of the Hospital will be established. Building up a Land Hospital at ◯ College hospital is not something you do in one year, two or three. It's a job for years. And now, when the infrastructure at the Land Hospital is in effect, it is absolutely certain that they will continue on the course decided by the General. That's why I got a little disappointed last night when I got to the top. The secretary of finance said that it would certainly be done but that he always wanted to listen to good ideas, saying: "In the meantime, we'll move on. In the meantime, this is not the case. I want you to make sure that we're going to move on to finish the building project planned at the Land Hospital. This is one of the powerful factors that we can do to restore our health. I hope to the highest. The minister of finance came and confirmed that this in the meantime was a tip of the Togue, if I may say so, excuse me, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u11	Loss of leg on the tongue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u12	A respectable president. Sustainable use of natural resources is important to us, and present imbalances in nature can have serious consequences for the produce of fish species. A report in the Western Islands has an article based on the lecture of Viðarsson Woodson, the manager of the scene of the Resident, where it deals with the demolition of fur. He gives an example in 2005 when you caught 1,050. a ton of fur. It is believed that, according to a CREEP assessment, fish ate a total of 1.3 billion. Tons of fur, whales in the late-year-olds. ton, seabirds 340. the tons and the fishing, to say, over 1 million, a total of 4.2 million. tons. I'd like to put this in comparison with what's happening today when the milk on the fur is 175 yous. There has been a tremendous increase in the number of tons and whales. In recent decades, the humpback whale has grown from 2 o'clock. for animal use in 14 fars an animal, and it is believed that the big whale eats each day from 600 pounds to 1.3 tons. The article based on the grand lecture of Viðarsson Woodar's son says that this year whales ate all we could catch this year. Then it was not taken into account that of the 175 you have. Tons caught the Norwegian 45 fars. Ton, the 19 Greenlands. Ton and Accuracy 9 up. a ton. And then, of course, 5.3% in pots and 95 farts. In Iceland, a ton went to the fore. Here's something we need to consider, a respectable president. If we take off the right to catch whales that are a large part of our life chain, there is a great danger. Let us not lose sight of the ability of future generations to provide food for a whale and to maintain the chain of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u13	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to drop bombs or stumble, but I'm late tired of discussing ways to improve my use of technology. The situation with us is that in each home, dozens of items are stored if not hundreds of thousands are thrown away each year, practically wasted, as is true of the entire chain of values. It tells itself that for that money there are things that can be done upbuilding, enjoyable, and even beneficial. Yesterday, the minister of Environment and Resources, Sigrún Magnún Magnúsdóttir, for breakfast at the Halling Centres in connection with a policy minister to reduce waste combined against waste and to 12 years of age. But food waste, plastic, and textil will be first two years at a time. During the meeting, many interesting topics and attentions were presented on various means of making use of them and relating many of the interesting things that have already begun in waste prevention. There a representative of the EEA's new website, food solification.is, which was launched from the deck for the day's celebration and explained a major investigation ahead. This is available page, very useful, and I encourage the public to take advantage of it. There was then a discussion of Databar labels and how its use can lead to reduced food consumption and more consumer safety by meeting increasing consumer requirements for traceability, product information and safety. A representative of the Icelandic Women's Association commented on the activities established by the Society and on the change of mind that each of us would have to adopt. Finally, the National Protection Study presented a very interesting and even a good introduction to rural and corporate work in this area. V.E.G. President. Then I would like to point out that it is possible to apply to the Ministry to help achieve the policy objective and encourage good works or innovation in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u14	A respectable president. I went yesterday and I looked at the data as well. paritaprevir The Gudgle of Þórðarson discussed the previously known secret data on the committee field. I did not find any conspiracy or treason there, but I am not an expert on the material or the material found in the evidence. But I have to say, I don't realize why much of the knowledge is secret either. A small part of them seems to contain information such as names and social security numbers. There seems to be a lot of standard terms in English law and English, but that is not enough to understand the meaning of all the benefits. I'd really like to discuss these data with the experts I have access to, but then I have to be able to pass them well, and I can't right now because they're so secret. As the situation is now, the evidence and their status at the council will only raise suspicion in the light of the conflict between individual senators'claims on their interpretation. Again, I do not know the exact reasons why trust is required in these data. We senators must have clear answers as to why the evidence is not to be revealed. We need to be able to agree that there are legitimate and grammatical reasons for this. As mentioned earlier, there are a lot of these data that I believe should not be secret unless it is that there is something to discuss seriously and publicly. So I suggest that you insist. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son and why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir will be taken seriously, and as much of this evidence as possible will be removed. In that sense it is not possible, it should be very clear why, and it should be so clear that we are affected. Councilmen can agree on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u15	Thanks for your support.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u16	Mr. President. I agree very much that it's trying to keep all the relevant data on official payment, including dealing with the demands on future losses and where Icelands own money hidden in taxes, etc. I'm a great spokesman for transparency, and hopefully we can all join together on that. I was going to make some comments to what I think is somewhat strange management of the Department of Employment and Development in terms of the beginning of gray-free business in this spring. On March 20 of the north, the directive was issued, followed by five days'warning, with a delay in a period of 10 days. If foots and fats are found for normal reasons, they are retreating halfway, and they are at the level of regulations for now that can be started on March 26. It is an amazing arrangement that seems to be being made in an amazing void to the reality they are facing preparing for a full - time gray - free fishing trip in the days before the anticipated beginning of fishing. That means operating on the boats. In many cases, fishermen from other ships get time off to go out on gray. It must be done in a way that allows other ships to hunt until the gray cloth in a certain way. Fishing instruments are taken ashore, and others are taken aboard, etc. and then there is considerable activity around accepting the gray patch in the country, working it and freezing it, and getting people involved in it and preparing to do it. To think of delaying the beginning of the season, of course, is quite amazing. I think there would have been a greater difference in the fact that the Ministry and my friends there had faced the fact that there was a mistake and just acknowledged it completely and allowed men to start on the day that it was. It is also an early estimate that those who are known in the north and northmost part of the country may simply conclude that delaying the period would lead to an extreme escape of ten days, perhaps even a half - calm, etc. And they all come to the wind long before their days are ended. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I challenge it to the highest. Director of industry and innovation, and ask the President to join me in providing for marine eco-efficiency and agriculture secretary of the past. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u17	A respectable president. There are two stories I saw yesterday that made me angry. Among other things, there is a news report about the treatment of animals where animals are directly killed. This is not new. We hear such reports from time to time. I think there's a lot of concern and peculiarity about how much tolerance seems to be going on in these matters. We have a law to handle this. It is important that the supervision and those who are to ensure that the law is carried out on them. We're sending a message to society that it's really okay to abuse animals. I can't believe that's the way we want this society. I think it's a very sad story. Another thing I saw last night was another report about the bad equipment of workers in poor countries, people producing the consumer goods for us. I'm so tired of this news. In 2016 we receive this news, and we know that in many lands the situation is just terrible. It is child labor, there are accidents in factories, even collapses. It is burning in factories, using poisons that damage those who work their products and enter the environment. We do business with this company, and we look through our fingers with the production process. I say, it's now 2016. Isn't it time for consumers to say, " I don't buy product unless I know it's made in a responsible and sustainable way? ' Don't go shopping and buy product if we don't know how it's made. That's all the companies understand. I know a lot of companies are trying to do their best, but that's not enough in 2016. This is what happens when the production is transferred from the West to Asia, where many people actually lose control of production, have a subjugated body, and so on. But this is not acceptable. And I think it's the best savings scheme for us consumers to stop buying goods unless we know how they're made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying things with a what. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit is that we need to be very conscious of our consumption. Being conscious of their consumption is not only about financiallocks but also about how they are made and where they come from. I just want to talk about how expensive it really is to live in Iceland. At the moment, an article in which students in economics remind me of the Bifrost made a comparison between Germany and Iceland when it came to living and just living. It was discovered, to no wonder, that living in Iceland is far more expensive. [[Take it up: the beer.]] Yeah, it's the natural beer. It specifically shows that the Chianti bottle costs 1,590 bucks. In the state, but it costs 500 bucks. At a grocery store in Germany, you can say it completely. On the other hand, I am concerned about this, especially because the benefits that people live on or even the loans they may not be able to support themselves. As a student, I had to move out of the country in order to be able to live, and there's something more students and retired people have to stand in front of me, it's way too expensive to live in Iceland. And that's a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u19	President. It is now known that information that the prime minister had on the part of the State regarding the demands of the fallen banks was enormous. He had all the information that the State had against them at the same time, let's say, closely related to the demands. There is also the ultimate possibility. The prime minister was not going to inform us about this relationship with his interests. Rather, he did it because the media had begun to ask. The media found out about this, so the prime minister decided to inform them. There is also the possibility that prime minister would not inform the secretary of finance, the president of the second administration, of the interests of the prime minister or his connection with the demands. That was shown in the speech of the secretary of finance here yesterday. Similarly, the minister of finance said that it was a prime minister to answer for this matter, not his. Talked to the minister of finance that the prime minister would do so, he would be content to do so. On Wednesday, I offered a talk that the prime minister would come here and explain his case. The president of the Generals rejected it, considered no reason to do so. This is very serious. It is very serious when the prime minister is in the position to behave in a way that has been informed and that he himself has partly informed. I'm asking the highest. A president has any intention of responding in some way. The president of the council has already refused to ask the prime minister to come here to the council and explain the matter from his point of view. I'm asking a president if he intends to react in any other way, for example. by referring the case to those who might and should be considering these matters. I'm here to name an agent of the General Assembly, I'm dealing with the UNECE and other members who are expected to discuss a matter in such a rich interest as this, and I've referred to it. [[The president calls.]] Will the president of the Generals react in some way or simply continue to respond? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u20	In answer to that question in his day, the president may not have much more to add than that of the world's institutions. A senator himself did not refer to the custody of a president. Hence, he does not consider it to be a reason for bringing about the matter in that sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u21	A respectable president. Iceland's administration is very difficult these days. This week, it has been observed that the prime minister has kept important information secret, not just for the nation, but for the group as well. It has also been observed that the minister of finance believes that the prime minister himself has to account for these matters. The questions left are how the government groups of this council will create minimal credibility. What is the policy of individual large litigation groups, housing, housing contract affairs, land hospital affairs, health services, country bank status, travel rate, birthworm, etc.? What is the policy on registration of interests and respect for unwritten and written protocols? The absence of the political parties involves the people. Prime Minister feels that the team of colleagues is getting information on major issues on Facebook pages and in press reports. Political confusion and double signal are not reassuring. The minister of finance could not just point to the last government or refer to statistics as it is all right when it turns out that the presidents of the government have no minimal dealings on large issues. The situation is the responsibility of both categories. It is offered to the Independence Party, just as it was to the forwarding party. The credibility of both classes is beneath us. Little wonder, a respected president, though the call for elections and the new arrivals of the nation become louder and louder. Not only is this called in the order of the government opposition but such voices are being applied to key members of the government themselves and to the common people throughout the country. The government's state is unacceptable. It's time to end.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u22	V.E.G. President. It is a big day today when we accept here the change in general penalties and legalize specific regulations for domestic violence. At the council, we have discussed these matters much, especially in the General Commission, during this term as well as in the past. It is good that we have arrived at the point where the whole body of Congress agrees on this fine step. Other assignments are ahead of us. We need to take care of siege, but the next thing that the General Commission will consider is how we can avoid the reality of other such issues, domestic violence, and other forms of crime, such as sexual immorality. That is what the board will discuss next.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u23	President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir The Konráðsdóttir of Brá says that laws are being imposed on an enormously important law. How happy we are here to assemble strings to strengthen all of us and our community in the fight against domestic violence! Last week the United Nations Committee published a recommendation to the Icelandic government on the requirements of the Women's Convention, which is not properly carried out in Iceland. These include the immediate plan of action against sexual abuse and domestic violence, the ensuring of capital and human resources in order to enable police throughout the country to adopt the act of the police in Reykjavík, in the violence, and immediately take action to increase the number of women in the police, in the Supreme Court, and in high places of foreign service. Here is a step toward meeting these, of course, United Nations tips, and I expect that we Congress will continue to travel together in making Iceland a better community for both sexes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u24	V.E.G. President. I'm measuring for two primes. On the one hand, the bill for a court law and, on the other, a bill to correct a change in the law on personal treatment and the treatment of criminal matters. The primary projections provide significant improvements in the legal system designed to support its support and national rights. The most important changes in the Court's bill are the setting up of a new appeal phase, an intermediate level, here in the country, so that judgment levels will be three, regional courts, national rights and the Supreme Court. The Court will be a new court of appeals and the Supreme Court of the United States Supreme Court. It has been removed from the arrangement of two judges we've had here since February 16, 1920, when the Supreme Court of the Danmerk of the country was removed and Iceland's Supreme Court was founded. In many ways, the two - step system has served us well over the years. It is both cheap and efficient. As I further understand, however, the pressures on the judgment system have increased dramatically over the past few decades, and it is now assumed that the highest court could not perform its role as an unprecedented court, and it is not possible to guarantee righteous treatment according to the requirements of the European Convention of Human Rights. There are also proposals for significant changes in the administrations of the courts in order to establish a special court office, the Court, which will take care of the joint administration of all three judges. In a current system, such joint administrations are not available. Rather, they are a court of law in the administration of the district and the Supreme Court of the administrations associated with them. It is vital to strengthen the administration of the courts, and this is more appropriate by a new level of judgment. The bill to legalise the changes to civil treatment laws and criminal treatment laws includes new treatment guidelines taking into account an intermediate level institution. These include cases of lawsuits and appeals from the districts to the National Court, the handling of lawsuits for the National Court, and the lawsuits and appeals from the National Court to the Supreme Court and the treatment of the Supreme Court. The bill provides guidance on a simple and rapid treatment of speech where possible. It is evident that the overall duration of treatment in the situations which will take place during all three dose cases will be extended and the review of oral testimony to the appeal stage may increase the course of treatment. For example, a short period of appeal in private matters and simple proof of the land's rights is failed. V.E.G. President. These bills have had a long turn. There are careful analyses of the current system, benefits and defects, and assessments of necessary improvements. In June 2011, an interjugation team of members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs returned a report. The report compares the importance of the national jurists, the weaknesses of the system analysis, and the pros and cons of different ways of dealing with them. The work force agreed that it was a desirable goal to establish an interjugation level that would take place both in private and in criminal matters. In March 2015, the committee on the cross-cutting level appointed by the Minister of Internal Affairs in the summer of 2013 returned to the first point of a new court law and the change of civil law and criminal law. The bills continued to be presented on the Ministry's Web, processing the comments received. In that work, they consulted a review group representing Iceland's Supreme Court, the Council of Justice, the National Socialist Association of Iceland, and the State Attorney General. Then theJustice Committee was also consulted. Finally, the bill was presented to the Ministry Web as well as to professionals. The reviews generally described satisfaction with the bill. I will now first agree with key points involved in the subject and the emphasis on the intermediate level. A goal to establish a new judgment level is to improve the system of justice, to ensure that the present careful and just trial before courts and that the highest court of the country, the Supreme Court, can carry out its role as an unprecedented court of law. At the same time, it is designed to ensure continued effective treatment. Judgment will begin, as will now be the case in the district courts. So it is still assumed that the foundation of the matter will be laid upon the district. It will be possible to appeal to the National Court for appeals, and most of it is comparable to appeal rules and appeals to the Supreme Court. In exceptional circumstances, the courts can be appealed to the Supreme Court. This way to the Supreme Court, called a bypass, will only be able in private matters and that there will be relatively narrow conditions, including the need for quick conclusions and no disagreement on the assessment of oral evidence. Therefore, the Court's decision will be that the main policy will be appealed to the National Court, which will become a new Appellate Court in an interjugatory period for the whole country. It suggests that 15 judges serve at the National Court and that three judges regularly participate in each case. In the land's rights, recording of oral witnessing under the court will allow witnesses to be brought back and after events as necessary. Therefore, there can be an intermediate assessment of oral evidence of an appeal phase when needed in both private and criminal matters. This is fundamental and much justice. This change is in harmony with international requirements, but the European Court of Human Rights has concluded that intermediate evidence in an appeal phase is part of a fair treatment under the European Convention of Human Rights, as well as a 1 mg. 70 C. The constitution. An intermediate assessment of oral testimony in the appeal phase is rarely carried out in the current system. The Supreme Court now reevaluates the evidence of oral extrusion in private matters without oral evidence there. In the treatment of criminal cases, the Supreme Court can have oral evidence provided by the legal authority on criminal treatment. But he has never used this authority. The key explanation is the pressures of the court and the speed of words. If the Supreme Court considers evidence in criminal matters, such as in the case of sexual crime, is lacking, or is wrong, some time later, about the outcome of the case, he will not make a ruling. That means the case's going to be headed for the district again. This is both costly and time - consuming and does not answer the requirement for direct evidence. This involves a great deal of stress for the party of matters and violations to have to go through the entire case before the federal court. In fact, this has to be changed. The main argument for two judges has been that such a system is efficient. Of course, it is important to ensure that effective measures are made and the primary projections are looking for ways to ensure that the treatment for the courts will be accelerated as possible. Intermediate proof of appeal does not mean that repeating any oral evidence has taken place before local courts. Nor do we need to listen to recordings of all verbal evidence. Based on the rapid court treatment and consideration for those who testify, it is necessary not to go beyond the need for these materials. With a new judgment level, careful court treatment can also be ensured in cases where specific factors are tested. The bill suggests that the National Court has a warrant, such as a national court, to generate special judges, e.g. doctors. A national court may thus evaluate the details of a district which requires expertise, but these factors can have a bearing on the outcome. In other words, a court trial would be similar to the court's current court case. However, most judicial cases are expected to complete for the land's rights. Supreme Court will be the supreme court case in the justice system. We're expected to judge the Supreme Court of the Nine to Seven. It is recommended that the position of those who have already been appointed or appointed as judges should not be disturbed. However, the judicial office will not be reassigned until it is necessary according to the law on the number of judges. In general, five judges participate in each case, but in exceptional cases seven judges may be involved. With a new court order, the role of the Supreme Court will be much smaller than today. Thus, he can better fulfill his role as an exemplary court. It is based on the primary projections, as stated earlier, that the treatment of all cases occurs in three counts of judgment. There must only be appealed to the court or charged with an appeal or a lawsuit. The ability of the Supreme Court to appeal to the Court is basically based on the evaluation of whether the outcome of the matter is of significant importance or, in particular, the important interest of the person applying for an appeal permit. There will be a tight squeeze in the warrants of the Supreme Court. Other changes are suggested in an effort to improve the treatment and strengthen the courts and their independence. First, it may be suggested that a judge's authority on extra work be limited. In this way, judges will be prohibited from taking up administrative work in the interests of the government, such as a session on the ruling committees, governments of public institutions, or permanent committees that care for or prepare legal adjustments. For example, judges would not be permitted to sit on a judicial committee. However, judges would continue to be permitted to join in the preconceived public special groups, in the field of learning, and in the field of teaching, for example. With these changes, however, an even greater degree of compromise between the Court's authority and the executive authority is endeavoring to reduce the possibility that judges will act or do a task that will later, directly or indirectly, come to justice. It is then suggested that the legal rights to the courts be addressed, but such judicial regulations have not been passed on until now. The Court's decision is to evaluate and provide proposals to the Ministers on the need for funding for the establishment of the judicial system in favor of individual courts and to accept the role of the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court in this respect. The Ministers are expected to make the General Fundament Committee aware if he deviates from the proposals of the Court of Justice, as well as those that are to be made aware of a disturbance in the bill. This aims to sharpen the independence of the courts against the Commission in the proposal. It is then suggested that legal arrangements be made to ensure that a gender rate on the judges' work and a judicial committee assessment of the qualifications of candidates for a judge's office will be comparable and consistent with an equal law of equality. Is nominated by nominated men or women. This should leave no doubt about this subject. The bill also suggests some adjustments in the sentence of a backup judge. These include the suggestion that they come from a number of former judges. They have previously had an audition and have an important experience. This is also in harmony with the viewpoint of a judge's independence, and there is little chance that former judges will allow their prospects for future action within the judicial system to influence their findings. Finally, this arrangement prevents predestinors from getting a head start over other candidates because of their experience. An adjustment of the procedure in a sentence to the court due to the permission of a judge in all cases is expected. It is thus suggested that there will be no future judicial office except in exceptional circumstances and especially in situations where a court might be inaccessible. Take the bill's suggestions on number of judges at each level of judgment based on this rule. District Court judges will be 42, National Court of 15 and 7 at the Supreme Court. The appointment of judges is in part unfortunate, including the viewpoints of the independence of the judges. In the case of a judge's appointment, it is suggested that a committee be appointed to evaluate the qualifications of the judges to make a suggestion about who should be appointed as judge. In case of longer sentence than six months of age, it is suggested that the vacancy be made free of sentences. With these changes, it is seeking to ensure that professional viewpoints will determine the choice of judgments made. Then, in the bill, a whole set of laws on special judges, including theirs, their commission, their suitation, is new in Icelandic law. The directives include the comments made by the European Council on measures to prevent corruption in the selection of special judges in Iceland. V.E.G. President. I will now take into account basic and emphasis on the administration of the courts. By moving the joint administrations of the courts to one independent agency, the Court of Justice, aims to improve and promote their administration and contribute to the implementation of cases affecting the internal functions of all three judges. The work of the Court of Justice will be many and are the main ones as follows: The Court's office is aimed at representing and representing the courts, both government and public. This may include communication with the Council, or government, of any kind of indication relating to the work of the courts and responding to media and public inquiries. It is suggested that the Court arranges the ongoing education of all judges and other courts according to the regulations established by the Agency. Then she is appointed to oversee the information and technical management of the courts and to gather and publish information on the number and payments of the courts and provide a joint annual report on the activities of the Court and the courts. It is also planned that the Court will set up regulations on specific matters for the National Court and the local courts, including the legal records, Senate books, audio and video recordings at the council halls, and the preservation of lawsuits and recordings. The Agency is intended to contribute to a consistent implementation in these substances as best possible. Then I'd like to mention that due to the U.S. Marshal's commission, both the General and the Minister of the State have been presented for the attention of the judicial administration of the courts. On one hand, an agent has noted that uncertainty exists regarding whether the public government of the courts will fall under his territory. However, an agent has felt that it is necessary to consider whether or not the Court's administrative rights, which are not considered to be the treatment of specific judicial cases, in the light of the court's handling procedures. The originals listed here do not suggest that the U.S. Marshal's agent be placed in charge of the general legal administration of the courts. However, there are various adjustments proposed to ensure that the Court's administration consists of clear regulations and, among other things, legal in handling the judicial committee according to the regulations of the administration. Then it is suggested that if a court judge or another judge deems a court official to have done his part, he could make a direct complaint against the court. Such complaints, for example, may involve a variety of personnel matters or similar matters in which a director is acting as a governing director. There is no such facility in accordance with current laws. Although this is not stated, it is assumed that the handling of such a case will take into account administrative procedures. In the same way, it is suggested that the recruitment and retirement of the staff courts be carried out by the law on the rights and duties of the employees of the state. As a result, the public service of the courts should include public advertising of the main policy, as well as the procedure for their regulations on the end of their work. V.E.G. President. In general, it can be said that a new court order will be settled. However, it has been suggested that there may be an inexpensive and more efficient way of ensuring direct evidence provided in this bill, such as that none or at least the number of cases will be reduced to more than two levels of judgment and by the number of intermediate judges. It has also been suggested that oral proof of the Supreme Court can be handed down with the corresponding increase of the Supreme Court judge as well as the means to establish an intermediate level in stages, for example, by initially taking it only on criminal charges. It is easy to see that such routes reach all the target of the primary projection and, in particular, do not ensure that the Supreme Court can better accomplish the role of being an exemplary court of law, which is one of the two main objectives of the bill. In fact, such a way is complicated. Each court order's role will be less clear, and the pressures of the highest court will be no less pronounced today. It also specifically recommends that the intermediate level be set up at a single step that will greatly speed up the correctment I have made. It will then be more practical to initiate national rights in housing and environment, which will depend on the future activities of the Court and the costs of information systems and infrastructure to be reduced if the Court is set up at one step rather than more. On the basis of the evidence that an individual intermediate level will lead to too much expense, I would also like to say that, of course, the cost of the government must be adjusted to the top and to look for all means of saving. However, it is my sincere opinion that our legal system, one of the most important foundations of society, has been financed so that we no longer enjoy it. The quality of the legal system determines whether we really live in a state of justice. We have reached critical limits, and regardless of the establishment of a new interjugation, we would have to make significant improvements. The primary projections endeavor to break both spaces and contribute as much as possible to efficiency and efficiency. V.E.G. President. There are then ideas on how far to change various aspects of the current law while taking an intermediate point. This may differ from your viewpoint. In this regard, for example, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the creation of an interjugation phase, which gave the minister the proposal that a prime project in February 2015, suggested that there be a change in the rules on how court order should be agreed in the Supreme Court. It was suggested that the judge who is the original - language judge vote for judgment. Other judges on the case should also take sides in their own name as to the vote of the primer as necessary. This included the key change that judges write their own votes, but they do not establish their main policy as a whole. Some comments were made to this recommendation in the reviews received, and among other things it was noted that judges can enforce the current rules if they disagree with the results or grounds for them. If the principle is to be that all judges write their votes, then judgment may become less vague, less vague, and less unprecedented. Such a view was agreed, so it is not suggested that this route be taken at least at least, since it does not relate to an intermediate level. Different viewpoints have also been made regarding how many judges operate in the Supreme Court. The proposals of the 2015 Commission suggested that they be six. Then, in the discussion, there have been ideas of being five and all examples in all matters. In this regard it has been pointed out that the decision to determine who is in the court at one time can be prevented. The bill suggests there will be seven judges in the Supreme Court. This suggestion, on the other hand, is that there is a right to take a careful approach to the earth when the number of judges are reduced before the judgment has been handled. Then, as previously said, the pursuit of a judicial decision must be almost completely avoided for other reasons. As a result of the need for an increase in the number of judges, it is even greater now that a court judge's right to study has been increased by a recent decision made by the Council of Elders. It may be estimated that he will always lead to one judge at the Supreme Court's license for three to six months each year. So it is unfortunate to plan on cutting a number of judges at the Supreme Court to five. This would mean that almost always one judge at the court's court office is temporarily in office, concerned about the independence of the judges in court or that fewer than five judges are seriously questionable when it comes to the highest court where judgment is intended for judgment. Finally, the proposals of a 2015 committee were proposed to make significant changes in the rules for the appointment of judges. I believe that existing rules need to be changed, and I have made this my opinion officially known. I believe, however, that it is better to have the independent discussion, independent of the necessary improvements in the legal system resulting from the interjugation process. So I've had a private bill with proposals for changing the rules of a judge's orders now in a presentation on the Ministry's Web, and I encourage everyone to study carefully. More bills are in the water. First of all, the Ministry bill is prepared to legalize civil treatment laws and criminal treatment laws that respond to the Supreme Court's decision from February 25 of the past issue of No. 628/2015, about the Re-Election Committee. This is likely to be the first sign of approval, and changes in a number of laws must be made with the cross - references. They split up a dozen. It is also clear that legal laws regarding the right to sue and its acceptance due to an intermediate level will be changed. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the main issues of the bill, their preparation, and their main reasons. It is suggested that the bills take the main approach to a date of January 1, 2018. However, preparation begins earlier, including order in the office of a judge at the National Court. This is in the provisional regulations IV in the Court's bill for judicial hearings, that the order of the judges to the Court should be completed no later than July 1, 2017, and that they should be appointed from January 1, 2018. It is suggested that when a minister proposes an order in the office of a judge at the National Court for the first time, he submits to every order for the Council for approval. If the General didn't agree to the Minister's proposal for a specific order, the Minister shall propose a new proposal for the Council to be agreed with. In view of the appointment of 15 judges at the same time, it is reasonable to ensure that there will be more than one authority in it. V.E.G. President. I reiterate that this is my opinion of a significant improvement in the Icelandic legal system, which involves important progress. I ask them to be sent to the highest level. General and educational committees for the proper treatment and management and 2nd management.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for detailed prime radios and full history speech. In view of this, only two things I wanted to ask out specifically, on the one hand, of Article 12. on the authority of a minister to appoint a judge as a judicial committee has not been considered to be the most qualified among candidates, since it is assumed to be allowed to do so if the General approval of the Minister's proposals. What I wanted to know is how you can understand when you say that you may have another anonymous candidate who will meet in the opinion of a judicial committee all the conditions for receiving an order in office. Is the judicial committee expected to have two aspects, one on the other, of the general conditions that judges need to meet, and is it permitted to select with the strength of any of them, as well as the most qualified ones? I don't feel quite clear because it is assumed that the selected ones are the most qualified, one or more, but then all the conditions in the second part of the paragraph are discussed. Then about 54th pars. on the Re-Electment Committee, I would like to ask specifically if this committee, according to this bill, can determine in a final way a court review. I understood the court's sentence, so he was saying that it would take a court to repeat a case. But this is for a administrative committee, it says it's independent and independent of the administrative committee. Will she make a decision that will then reevaluate the court, or will she make a final decision that does not reflect the court's review?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u26	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite understand the previous question. A senator, I felt as if he were also talking about the bill that is now in the presentation of the Ministry's Web and is involved in possible changes in the rules of the judges' orders for the future. There are ideas that more people will attend the judicial committee as well as that the judicial committee will explain who is most qualified, but there will be room for a minister to select from the one most qualified, provided that all of them are qualified. That's basic. This bill specifically includes the order of all these judges, if you don't mind me saying so, in the National Court. Then the prime guard, who is very important to ministers at any particular time, is that when it comes to appointing this great number of judges, it is not upon the execution of the Commission to appoint all of them on the basis of a rule that will exist in the future, but it must be done by the General Assembly. If the Allied Council believes that a minister has submitted to someone who is not acceptable or who does not agree, the minister must be appointed another qualified one. It is not that there can be just someone, there must come another qualified minister to agree with the Council so that the guaranteed, which I think, is absolutely fundamental when ordering so many at once, that there is not let down on one minister. Regarding the second question, about the Re-Election Committee, there's a special bill about it. It assumes that the Re-Electment Committee cannot depart from the Supreme Court, as happened in this particular case. Of course, what we are dealing with is that the committee is a matter for treatment that should not be disturbed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u27	A respectable president. I may better review the points involved with the order of the judges in a talk afterward. But in particular, in regard to the Committee of Re-Electrs, I wondered: " Is it not in itself to specify it not as an independent and independent ruling committee but as a re-election court, in which just three judges, one district judge, one state judge and one Supreme Court judge, and she just issued a ruling that will then bring up all the judgments on the rejuvening of the matter? The concern I see in this suggestion now is that I do not feel entirely clear from the lyrics that it meets the Supreme Court's divorce that it requires the administration of the judicial authority to rejuvenate judgments made. As a result, we may be creating a permanent trial, perhaps only an additive in the way of those who turn for recurrence instead of paying the way of the recurrence, as was originally planned for the Re-Election Committee. I wondered if this was the way of the Ministry of Re-Electment to the Committee simply that it might include judges, they could therefore be the root judges of these three counts, and therefore they would be authorized as judges to pronounce a sentence of repeats.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u28	A respectable president. In fact, there were a number of viewpoints that we pondered when the Supreme Court decision came, and we had to look for changes. It's inevitable, the judgment calls for a change in law. One of the points discussed was as bad as night. A senator mentioned, whether to set up a special court. I'd like to say that we haven't quite cleared up this discussion about the Re-Elects for the final purpose, but we feel absolutely unavoidable to make immediate changes in the law of law so that the uncertainty that exists today will be eliminated. If you went in that direction for a while. A senator named them would require our opinion of great superiority and would need to be examined in a number of ways. There would have been no way of bringing such a bill in the short time that remains during this winter of the council. This may be true of all the other ways that might have been considered. For example, the view of just removing these laws has been established, but the issues involved need to be viewed, so there are some views. In effect, now our willingness to respond in a simple way is not to be viewed as having finished the discussion that the judgment will bring about the future conditions that need to be fundamental to the restoration of matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you in the beginning. A minister for the contributions and compliments of her efforts. It is a turning point in a recent history of rights with contributions to these matters, and it is long ago time to make fundamental changes in the order of the judgment system in the light of a new requirement and a variety of reasons for improvement. I can see that my time is only 15 minutes which will hardly be enough to make this case a few intelligent terms, but I will do what I can best in it and maybe return to it. First, we must recognize that the lack of the justice system has become a danger to us in terms of respect for public rights, and it is very important to make improvements. I think it's most honorable. A minister did not press that issue before him, as it is easy to do, but he succeeded in trying to get it to port. The bill does well explain other reasons why change has long since taken place. The problem with the principle of intermediate evidence for the Supreme Court has long existed and created all sorts of opinions and concerns and the fact that expert judges have not participated in the release of cases into appeal therapy. On the other hand, I feel like cats around the hot bill and the report on the danger that results from the present security system in this country. It is said that excessive work loads pose a danger and that the proper effect of court judgment will be less than desirable, thus increasing work loads and the like. The fact is, however, that with the situation today, we have many judges and have followed that course, for example. As work load increases the number of judges in a split cycle, we have a very recent example that the legal influence of the Supreme Court has fallen on us. The best example is the Supreme Court's decision on the pavilion case. On June 16, 2010, the Supreme Court pronounces an invalid sentence against the unsurpassed loans of success. As a result, there were repeated meetings, perhaps as well as a court hearing, on the Minister's Committee for Economic Affairs, which came in charge of the S.H.I.A., and considered a serious assault on the financial system to come and an enormous danger. They strongly urged that these results be addressed without delay and arranged by law on a specific solution for these cases, so that all successful loans would be turned into loans on credit. There were a number of government meetings held in the summer of 2010, at the end of June and the beginning of July, and there were quite a few of us in the government, who were totally opposed to the fact that the government and the Allied would be able to establish agreements before the Supreme Court had fully expressed itself about it. The Supreme Court then responded well to all indications that it was important to resolve this trial situation as much as possible and to put first a situation that tested the rules of accounting. This made it easier for us to push aside the concerns we were put on, to put our financial system at risk, and to face another financial collapse. The Supreme Court passed a sentence in the second case on September 16, 2010, making it clear that the five - man court, the arrangements for these loans, and the manner in which they should act. On this basis, a legal bill was presented to ensure that everyone with gang insurance borrowed precisely the same solution, because some gang insurance loans obviously did not depend on the terms of loans that had been considered invalid in the Supreme Court since June and totally unable for some to live with success loans and others would not. They were legalized at the General Assembly in December 2010 and have then received the national name Paul's Law to the nation, and in perfect harmony with the Supreme Court's judgment since September 16, 2010. Then, because of pressures in the Supreme Court and increased stress on the court due to the number of paints, there is an increase in one point in the Supreme Court, either in late 2011 or at the beginning of 2012, and there are four new judges. Then comes the Supreme Court, which tests certain aspects of this law. So the decision is concluded on February 15, 2012. The Court concluded that despite the unanimous precedent of September 16, 2010, it is this way that in the cases where people have completed witness from their previous payments, the old rule for the complete payment of the debt payments applies since 1791. This was determined by all the four new judges in the seven - man court, of which three judges in the smaller section were part of the greater portion of five or five persons a unanimous decision that had made on September 16, 2010. So we have a very recent example of the security of increasing the highest court to solve the pressures on the court system can have a devastating effect. The conclusion of the matter has been responsible, of course, for the fact that the so - called years of Paul's law were placed, for the pressures of the judicial system of individualizing all the issues of opinion that rose dramatically. Hence, it was tried to read the Supreme Court and to create a general rule based on the views that were fundamental to this and that have as moderate intervention in an obligatory way as possible. But what happens then is that the Supreme Court simply changes his mind. This is because the judges change their mind, not because there are new judges in the court. I think this should be a serious warning light for us if we continue on the same path without basic changes. We will always face the fact that there are temporary times of stress, and this fact can simply lead to the simple and difficult judgment of the Supreme Court judging. If we are going to defend the principle that the lawgiver does not enter a court order, as we said many in the government in the summer of 2010, then there must be a way to trust in the courts of the Supreme Court and base on the principles that stand. It is impossible to be in a limbo so that the legislatator cannot do anything and that the court would determine comparable cases for years. It creates social resolutions and social conflicts. I have heard the argument that there will be only five judges in the Supreme Court and that they will always judge in every case, but I think that in themselves this experience and the approach in the bill is reasonable that the defence judges hear the story in actual terms other than that they come in as former judges. I think that will make it absolutely certain that there will always be seven men to distribute to judge the big facts, the legal judgments, and the rest of them can proceed, and all of them are bound, though only five remain in the court at any given time. As regards since the order of judges, there are a number of new laws here. I welcome the principles recommended in 1 1 1. g., that appointees should appoint both men and women alike in the seat of the nobleman and the deputy of the jury. We have had a lot of discussions about how a uniform judicial committee or a review committee has been. I think it's very important to us. Also, I think it's important to see from Article 12. The principle of the appointment of judges. It says that unless you are alone or in combination, you are forbidden to be appointed to the judicial office of a man whom a judicial committee has not considered to be the most qualified of candidates. However, it may be removed if the General Assembly agrees with the Minister's proposal for permission to appoint another anonymous candidate who will satisfy the jury's opinion of all conditions for the office's orders. I understand them as two foods, i.e. if a person meets the general qualifications, an order proposal can be made to the General, even if the individual is not the most qualified. Perhaps it is the best way to prevent abuse of the minister's authority to the order of Judge Generalis's approval if one is to deviate from ordering the fittest. I had previously opposed a committee and its order. In itself, I find it a little difficult to grasp the complete consequences of the new court's Supreme Court in terms of the Re-Election Committee and not quite easy to do so. In fact, I have been asking judges that question, and they seem, in a way, as confused as I am with this understanding. But as I understand the court, the opinion of whether a re-electory committee as a administrative committee may be able to make a complete decision. I don't feel quite clear here what the role of the Re-Elector is after this change. I can hear the highest. Minister to carve out further changes to the Committee on Re-Election, and perhaps it's time to refer the case there. Because of the story we have about the Supreme Court, which has been perfectly incapable of looking in a fair and legitimate way at a reevaluation of matters that obviously had a purpose in re-repetition, as the Geronus case is the best example, I am so deeply concerned if the experiment that of a re-elector of course was destroyed without any other intervention. I think, in the light of experience, it is impossible to hand it over to the Supreme Court himself. There is no other way to say it. I can quote from then on. The prime minister of Davíð Oddsson when the Supreme Court re-enacted the Gestapo in 1996, 1997, or 1998, or whenever that was the case. He strongly criticized them, and I was able to agree fully with them, and there is bound to be some way to repeat them. And if the idea of an independent committee doesn't work because of the Constitution rules that the courts alone should repeat judgments, I feel that we are to be examined at a Senate committee with this bill seriously whether to turn a hearing committee into a court order in a manner that I traced back earlier. Now I'm running out of time. Thank you to the highest. Minister for putting this matter to work and commending her again for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u30	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in cultural laws and other laws. The definition of the legislation is that in the EC Regulation of 22 May 2013, there is a plan to increase the effectiveness of the administrations, including with changes in organization, pooling and transport between burnings, in accordance with emphasis and priorities. Is this the basis and basis for the beginning of the work of redefineing the establishment system of the seminary during the past year. During the election season, there have been various ways in which the group has been promoted. As a result, additional funds have been given to the National Museum of Iceland and the National Museum of Iceland as well as to the hospice and hospice reserves of ancientmins. Then cultural legislation has been revised in broad consultations with stakeholders with the aim of strengthening the legislation and tailoring its limits, such as regarding the weak cases of archaeological licenses, the inadequate rightfulness of peaceful homes and workers, and the blurred role of advisory committees. The result of the revision that began last summer is found in this bill. In view of this and the declaration of the government's policy, it is reasonable to consider also the structure of the case and see if there is a need to reorganize. This organization has considered four ways: First of all, the same order as the same, but with a full partnership. Secondly, formal cooperation, e.g. On the basis of a cooperative agreement, a common vision, and a clearer work trajectory. Third, concomitant support service as a whole. A fourth way is by working together on the strains. It may be reasoned that professional and financial benefits must become the most united and that cooperation between institutions has limited professional effect and no effect on the loss of sectoral expenditures. This suggests that such advantages are not acceptable and consistent with the way that is most quickly developed to establish a more efficient and professional unit of activity that will soon be stronger than smaller activities, as further explained in general comments by the bill. Together with institutions, it is suggested in the bill that certain limited tasks will be brought from the National Institute of Minjas to the Ministry of Presidency. On the one hand, there is counseling with rural communities on the development of reservations based on the laws on the protection areas in which they live. However, it is a form of building or construction that will be declared in accordance with cultural laws. The reason for this proposal is that decision-making is in both cases a minister's hand and is provided solely for the transfer of counselling and the molding of the decision-making arrangements. I reiterate this, a respectable president: The decision is, in either case, at the minister's hand, and this is the case with the transfer of counseling and the development of their proposals, in any case, from the Minister's office. The rationale for this move is that there is a need to provide room for increased policy development in the case of the case by the minister, especially in the case of the house's peace description and construction activities. However, so far policy has been fragile and the importance of improving. Is it good to believe that the general policy work of consulting the Ministry to perform the controversial work under the scope of the authority? Despite this, it is assumed that the National Institute of Nations will make a suggestion for the overall policy and long - term plan for the protection and preservation of culture, including their declaration of peace. So the Ministry of Presidency and the new agency will shape such an overall policy. A respectable president. The main focus of the bill is that the National Museum of Iceland and the Minja Institute of Iceland will be united in one institution, National Institute, although it will continue to exist as the National Museum and as a provision for specialisation, even if it falls under the new agency. The first national law was adopted in 1907, followed by the National Museum of Iceland. The purpose of this arrangement is to ensure that the National Museum of Iceland will remain as such, for it has appointed a special place in the nation for over a hundred years. At the same time, the director of the Agency is recommended to be called a national monument, the curator of the museum. In addition to the long history of Iceland's National Museum, the country mines have been in charge of museum work and national service for over a hundred years in Iceland. I would especially like to guess, a respectable president, that I am very open to look at the possibility that the united agency will continue to name the National Museum of Iceland. It's a huge part of this bill I recommend here about the establishment of this new institution that the name of this great story will live. It is expected to do so here, with the National Museum as far as I could before, being another part of this institution. But I reiterate that I am very open to examine the possibility that the Agency as a whole is called Iceland's National Museum, and therefore direct it to the General and Education Committee, who receive the bill for treatment at the end of this discussion, to take this form in particular. The bill also discusses changes in cultural laws that are involved in strengthening the development of the Party. Developing changes, in particular, arrangements for archeological research, the dating of relics as well as houses and workers, the role of counseling committees, acquiesces, and construction projects, and the role of housing funds. For more details, the following changes to cultural law are proposed: Instead of being viewed as loosesome, which is 100 years of age and older, the idea is suggested as a projection between 1900 and earlier. Similarly, instead of a 100 - year rule on the spending of buildings and workers according to the year 1918, it is suggested that they do so. It is also suggested to seek the Agency's opinion in terms of a house or structure that does not have peace, but is built in 1930 or earlier, as the current law says. The role of the European Committee for Peace and Security as advisory committees to the Agency is clearly defined. The requirement for reimbursement and maintenance of peaceful houses and man - made buildings and the right protection of peaceful buildings and workers is laid down. The conditions required for granting an archaeological study and the testing of educational qualifications for those administering licensed archaeological studies are outlined. It is also suggested that, in a clear way, law forbids granting a new test permit until the stocks, samples, and research data from previous studies have been submitted. Finally, a folding fund is made available to provide the building and maintenance of the protected environment, regardless of whether it is a peaceful and peaceful house or not. In terms of the financial benefits of the combination of the two isolates, it has the potential to reduce management costs by 4.1% or 47 million. K. A year's basis. This, I understand, is a very careful estimate so that there is a small chance that the benefits will be considerably higher. This is because using the bait provides an opportunity to reorganize projects, processes, and projects. In spite of this, it can be assumed that the cost of unitedness can be studied by some 3,500,440 million. K. The change process is expected to take one year, and during that period temporary financial management is expected to be due to the change since the benefits are not fully expected during that period. It should be noted, then, that there is no expected data to be made to the personnel of the two institutions. I reiterate this, a respectable president. This list is not expected to include any information given to employees on the basis of this combination and suggested in the bill that all employees be offered a job for the new agency. Finally, there is reason to believe that the Agency is aimed at being a national scientific and services agency for the preservation and registration of culture and nationality, research and the sharing of knowledge in the interests of public interest. The Agency is aimed at working together with university students in the field of education and promoting and intensive scientific and research activities in the legal field of the Agency. It is important that the new organisation or the resulting collection do not participate in authorised archaeological studies in either a direct or indirect manner. The Agency is commissioned to allow and monitor such tests and is important that they are not placed in a position to provide themselves or agents that are associated with permission to study a competitive market and to monitor such a permit. It is also important that the Agency ensures that attitudes of competition are maintained and that they do not compete with people working at archaeological research in a private market. It is also important to consider that the Agency's emergency and immediate research, as well as the Agency's field observations on the extent and nature of memory, is not so extensive that the Agency can be considered to be archaeological and properly belonging to the private partners in a competitive market. Despite this, it is important that the museum, as part of the National Institute of Nations, delegating its role in the law on the National Museum of Iceland, be a powerful National and National Service Museum. V.E.G. President. I have now traced the key elements of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to the 2nd. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u31	President. I have two questions with the secretary's story. First of all, I ask about the provision of counselling and molding policies in terms of the Department's peace description, i.e. change in the process that has been going on for some time, that it is the role and task of a minister to confirm suggestions received from him. I'm asking the highest. Minister: How does he see that expertise comes into existence or is moved into the Ministry? Does it happen by adding employees or by doing what? The law says that instead of the ◯Minjah Institute, it will be a minister, not a Ministry of Ministers, but a minister. I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister thinks that he himself has this expertise, that he has both the ability to advise himself and make suggestions for himself about which house to pursue. Second, I'd like to ask the minister in the discussion section of the report. It says that the key elements of the bill were consulted with several people. Now it may be that heavyweight operators have declared themselves contrary to the whole issue. I'm talking about Icelandic museums and collectors, I'm using the Minja Institute, I'm reading a course in archeology. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What importance do these parties have in his mind when it comes to reorganizing the field in such a dramatic manner? Minister suggested?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u32	A respectable president. First of all, professional evaluations in the Ministry are a reason to underline this as stated in the bill and in the report that a decision in the Ministry will, of course, be used to advise the Agency and its adviseees. So there is no need for them to be brought into the Ministry of Presidency, since the Agency will continue to have the role of giving them advice. As for the discussion, Capacent was given to be involved in the request for the key options to be considered, as I mentioned in the background. For this purpose, meetings were held with stakeholders, interviews with a number of institutions of the institutions, as well as a number of suggestions were discussed at the board meeting. In fact, the list of articles with the bill is the question for discussion. I'm gonna allow myself, a respected president, to read this list: Kópvog's collection, the Minja Office of Iceland, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Icelandic archeological Research ehf., the Organization, Reykjavík, the Union of Iceland, the Environment and Resource Ministry, an ancient Committee, and a World Peace Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u33	President. I thank the minister for the answers, and first, I would like to ask: " What consideration was given to the comments of the individuals listed here? One is to meet the person and listen to their comments, and another is to have real discussions and to take into account their comments. The conclusions made by some of the individuals listed here show that the person firmly opposes the case. I'd like to ask about the comment that the change will reduce the value of Iceland's National Museum as well as its credibility, expressed by the U.S. Third, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, for it is about his personal interest, as it has been repeated, that he takes to heart what is heard under his personal interest: Does he think it is considered, if it becomes legal, that it will be reserved in the law that they will be replaced at the next election?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u34	A respectable president. First of all, the question about what was taken into account is the comment of those who entered the consultation process, which is clearly explained in chapter V of the bill, in fact, to me by a short answer. Of course, not everyone would agree on the best route in each case, as it would normally be in agreement between groups and institutions, but it was tried to find the best overall way with this discussion. The question is, Will this reduce the value of the National Museum? On the contrary, a respectable president, this is a hasty attempt to strengthen the National Museum and, in fact, strengthen the Minja Institute, and make up this one powerful institution that will be even more successful in defending and caring for this series of issues. For validation, this is not expected to resolve over the next terms. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't matter to them the interests of an individual minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u35	A respectable president. I may feel that there is concern about this matter about how much and hard a reaction has come from the relevant person. There are different groups that have been heard and not often received as a senator so much by e - mails and telephone calls and comments. As a result, many people are deeply concerned about this bill and have much to do with it. Then I wondered, " Is this really working well enough? ' It may be, if I understand correctly, a year since this group was set up to consider the matter. When they do this, it's my experience that they haven't been good enough, because the goal must be as high as most people on this mission and that those with interest in and work in the sector are as good as going on about the changes they're about to make. That's what worries me. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if he agrees with me in that perhaps he could have done better, might have gone a little slower, and have more consultation with the partner in the whole process. It can't be a goal whether it's the highest. A prime minister or someone else puts up a bill that is as critical as this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u36	A respectable president. First, I want to reiterate what I mentioned earlier that this case has had a long life and a lot of work in preparing it, doing what's best from the garden. Among other things, this work involves talking to as many people as possible involved in this matter and having knowledge of it. This was especially accomplished by a consulting firm, and it took time to do so. I mention, for example, that last summer, I think I was, was sent out 50 letters to look into various topics of this matter, and it was worked out in addition to all the advice I have already mentioned. There is nothing new, however, and it may seem, rather than an exception, that the union of the institutions causes anxiety and concern in employees who are not sure what harmony may mean even if it is tried to expound it very well. The experience, however, is also that when such unity has passed, there have been very often a decrease in such anxieties, and they have even disappeared quickly. They are normal, respectable presidents, when changes occur. It is natural for humans to worry and to want to protect themselves, but the bill is trying to meet all the employees of both institutions. As I mentioned earlier, it's safe not to stand to resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u37	A respectable president. You're right. You're right. A minister says that the unity of the institutions is usually controversial. That's why it's so important to be careful. We have examples of unity that have succeeded greatly; men have done things very well, as well as an example of failure in uniting things; perhaps it has been difficult to restore institutions properly after such unitys. I just wanted to ask a few questions, because I don't expect any member of the Independence Party to participate in this discussion, but this case has been passed through the government, so I want it confirmed by the Supreme Court. Minister, that there's a lot of support in this case with the crew, he's just gonna have to answer for him. Likely, no independent will participate in the discussions. Perhaps one last question: When I read this, I experience that the role of a house peace committee will be much less effective, perhaps not less vague than that of a lot more woeful than it is now. That's what worries me. I think it's important that there's a very professional process where capital protection is distributed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to first mention an example of the unions that were very controversial a few weeks ago, but all I can hear is that I've been very successful. That's where I'm talking about the harmony of the Development Agency with the State Department. There was much concern, in some cases very similar to what was discussed here. But once this happened, they could see that this had been well - prepared and unfounded for good reason. In view of the group's stand on this matter, it now actually tells itself that it has been taken away from the government, from the members of Congress, so now I don't have to look at it any further, as well as, as I pointed out at the beginning, in effect, in accordance with the Constitution and must enforce it. As a respected president, people have taken the time to do this well. In terms of the Housing Committee, its situation is strengthened rather than the other because it is specifically laid down as the Agency's advice to correct the lack of such a particular year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u39	President. I can't believe it's coming to the highest. The prime minister is surprised to learn that this is the subject of consultation. The people in the community who know these things most, not necessarily the staff of this institution, but the people in this sector, people with the greatest knowledge in these matters, are deeply concerned about this union. It is said frankly that no consultation has been made, it may have been having one meeting. People say: It is now to be run through at a tremendous speed without considering the so - called professional views or views relevant to this article and how these matters will be best handled. I can't believe I missed it at the highest. Prime Minister. He must have heard it like I did. It is in all news periods, in articles, and in all places. So I'm a little bit in that area. On page 13 of the report, the newspaper report states: 'Counsel stakeholders called attention to the board's attention to the need for increased coordination in the memory protection and monumental functions. I would like to ask: What interests were those that especially drew attention to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u40	A respectable president. The last thing that ever happened. A senator asked about coming from Capacent's conclusions. But then I reiterate that one more trip was going very far in ensuring professional preparation and consultation with the construction of this bill and looking for a special advisory company, looking out for the Ministry, in order to get the best of it. There were a number of challenges, and the company and the Ministry had already consulted many people. I cannot help but repeat what I pointed out earlier that unity, changes in behavior, causes anxiety during these periods. I know of cases that for a time, the unions of the state have not disturbed and even sometimes even when institutions have been divided. In this context, I remind you that not long since the Minja Institute was born, and it can be said that this teaches us a lesson from the relatively short period of time since the transfer of this to the Minja Institute of Minja. To be honest, I don't remember exactly how the discussion was then, but I can't remember better than that it's also caused some anxiety at the time. This teaches us a lesson from the experiences of this period, making them the best equipped to do their job so that they become something more than sum, an institution stronger than the other institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u41	President. If I understood the best. The prime minister just came from Capacent's report that the stakeholders came and pointed this out. I have not yet received an answer to the interests of those interests. There's some discrepancies in 1 1. It shows that the minister should make a decision on peace description and its delinquency. There are discrepancies between the handling of archaeological problems involving ships and boats and the peace profile of buildings and workers. Why is it not the same board of directors about these two things? I ask again as we have asked: Is it because of a special minister's interest in some matter? Don't you think it's a administrative economy that's being taken into consideration here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u42	A respectable president. This is particularly the case when trying to correct the offenses regarding the planning of houses and settlements. Of course, it does contain many things, especially new laws on the inhabited areas of protection. But I've got a tip for you. The senator may want to have boats and ships and more moving under them too, but that is not expected in this bill, since there were improvements in that area not to be considered the same as regarding the houses.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u43	A respectable president. With the bill available here to correct the change in cultural law and other laws, there are five, six lawlines for the memory protection and protection and suggest that the National Museum of Iceland and Iceland will be united in one agency by transfer of certain projects to the Minister with the objective of the protection of a joint institution on the basis of an efficient system of regulations with regard to values given to the community, as it is said, in its reputation. In order to accomplish this, the group's establishment and the Minja Institute of Iceland and the National Museum shall be assembled to one institution, although certain projects may be moved to minister, along with the adjustment of the specific rules of cultural law in order to improve effectiveness in the Agency's treatment of matters, as stated in the bill. This bill describes the benefits of a larger and more powerful organization, with a more efficient system of command, that will give the community the more valuable resources they are going to have. Now the bill is shown, and as far as you can see it, you're standing to drive it through at tremendous speeds. It is good to tell you that professionals and scholars in the Memorial and the maintenance of cultural prices in Iceland have opened up one voice and expressed deep concern and opposition to these plans and are severely critical that the bill has not been taken into account in terms of professional matters. Many have expressed themselves this way. Archaeologists, collectors, architects, professors at the University of Iceland, and others who have strongly objected to these plans of the Ministry of Presidency to unite the Minja Agency and the National Museum. As noted in the comments and magazine articles and letters received by members of the Parliament, it is difficult to see that any financial benefit is of these changes and very uncertain how much costs are involved in promoting the administration of the Presidency Department. Clearly, the bill is designed to make prime minister a personal amateur for homekeeping. Such interests are good and blessed, but prime ministers come and go. They have different interests. Hopefully, the present prime minister will not be the very prime minister's chair. In other words, it is not appropriate to tailor a field of practice to pursue a hobby minister at a time. The strains that we have to unite are very different. By means of the bill, the national Museum's activities will be severely impaired, and this will reduce its importance as museum law. Those most familiar with this group have also pointed out that the bill is acted rashly. For proof, there are a number of incorrect updates in the bill showing that it is being done in a hurry and without consultation with professional and stakeholders. It has specifically identified the impact of housing laws on the general population and that the model is drawn to Norway, where the system is based on the separation of administrative and research, in contrast to the unity offered on the bill, and will lead to a decline in the freedom to scientific research, in the opinion of known persons. Congregations and scholars have also noted that the process around unity has been characterized by much speed and inaccurateness. Many questions still remain regarding organization, labor division, and various cost groups. For example, the Society of archaeologists strongly protests that the bill becomes a law, pointing to various nudities on the bill and its consequences. For years in Iceland, Minjavar and Memorial studies have struggled with a lack of funds and indifference, which has led to a lack of research. However, in 2013 a firm stability was achieved in the monumental setting of Iceland's Minjah Institute. Yet, it is a real disaster that confronts Icelandic civilization and is seen in many destructive forces, both the destructiveness of nature, in which archaeologists lie in the earth and the destructive power of the plot against this group. The lack of archeological status estimates that the bill is reversible and will have a permanent and harmful effect on the working environment of archaeologists and smallers in the country. The Society believes that freedom to scientific research with a proposal for central research policy in archeology and that if the bill becomes the law, it will end about 150 years of the National Museum of Iceland in the field of archeology studies. This is a thought - provoking point. I would also like to refer to articles that have recently been published by Orri Vésteinsson, archaeologist and professor of archeology. It shows that out of the hundreds of damaged places of this country, only a fraction is examined by research, and there are no overall plans to deal with the threat of the thousands that will be expected to disappear in the coming years and decades. He further points out that the bill is, in effect, breaking up the Minja Institute in two, giving further research and not solving a problem. As he says, with the permission of a president: It draws attention from the real threat, weakens research infrastructure, and makes saving work difficult. Governments, and in this bill it is clear that they have not offered any professional vision or long - term plans that can be promised in the category, at least not in consultation and cooperation with those who happen to know in this sector. As the Memorial field points out, they have nothing to offer but a meaningful circle with institutions. In such matters, they do not listen to the viewpoints of those working at the field, the people who are sensitive, buried to the knees, are in saving Icelandic and Icelandic civilizations, as reported in magazine papers. I would also like to refer to the management of Icelandic museums and museums, who likewise express concern over the proposed agreements of the Minning Institute and the National Museum, and believe that the bill means that the work of the National Museums of Iceland needs to be restricted to the research work of the National Museum to look after the viewpoints of competitive legislation on the basis of unity. The Society believes that together the National Museum is alienated from its research role because this is incompatible with the role of a proposed National Institute for Change, which will be a administrative agency. The Society points out that the change will thus reduce the value of Iceland's National Museum as well as its credibility, but in general there has been an opinion that research role supports the development and innovations needed for collection work. This role has been held by the National Museum of Iceland. It is noted that a small time will be taken, although the National Museum of Iceland will be the head of the proposed National Institute for Nations, where there will be no real separation of the European Commission. This policy was originally determined by cultural law, where necessary separation of administrations and implementation was established. This may remind us that the National Museum of Iceland is one of three main museums as well as the National Museum of Iceland. The organizations that are to be united are, as the above, very different. - I should have mentioned here the Natural Museum of Iceland. It is likely that the decline of the National Museum's activities on this planned change will reduce the impact of what is one of three defined museums under museum law. The museums criticize, as I have previously said, the preparation of the bill, which seems to have no place in the economy of the institutions, here is a major change over a short period of time without proper consultation with stakeholders and a charge that the basis for the bill and the reasons behind the proposed cohesion are uncertain. A respectable president. Those most familiar have nearly met the bill and the proposed union of Iceland's Minja Institute and National Museum of Iceland. These people have called for an extensive consultation with professional and field instructors, research and monuments in Iceland instead of driving it forward like this. Under this, I can take a moment to heart, and I must regret for those who have expressed themselves not to have been listened to this group and, if indicated by the comments of those who have written about the matter that the last time they have been sent the tone and in that noise rather than the other. It would be closer for a prime minister to associate with the people working on the Memorial and research field to find solutions than to stand at work like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u44	President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech and a fine review of the matters of opinion that exist here. It seems that the matter is very neglected, and although it is the right thing to say in the case of a minister that there is always a measure of resistance and anxiety at the time of unioning organizations, the concern here is considerably greater and subject to the professional issues of the matter. You're trying to understand the reasoning that you find in chapters very confusing. It seems the Minister chooses to place all his trust in the consulting firm Capacent. What a sobering thought it is for a sensitive field of study and a very valuable part of Icelandic culture - both the research and the extracurricular system - to the highest extent! The minister should repeatedly refer to the company's advisory on the case, as well as in the answers to the observed answers. I don't know that Capacent's advisory company has any expertise that is sufficient to make such drastic suggestions for the changes in the organization and structure of this seminary. I want to ask you why. Senator: Does she see a place where the counseling company Capacent sought material and professional advice before the company gave ministers the advice that is the foundation of the bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u45	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is in. I also don't know that Capacent's advisory company has the responsibility to appoint special staff on the scene of museum work, memory protection, and cultural value. To negotiate as much a bill as what we're discussing here, there's just a considerable amount of pressure on such expertise, if you had counted. Everything that serves to remember and preserve cultural values is troubleatic and requires both education, knowledge, and experience in that very area. But now it's just another thing in this community today that it's as if there's always enough to call it -- what they call these consulting agencies -- Capacent, KPMG, Hagvanng, and whatever, to solve every human problem in Icelandic administration whenever it's necessary to do something. Of course, it does not have such expertise. Of course, there is a lot of concern about such sensitive and important issues as the Memorial and the preservation of cultural values, and the gathering work is in these ways being carried on in direct opposition to everyone involved in this sector. That's a serious concern because there's no need for that. There's no need to do bad things and not consult. You don't have to do that. This could have been done much better and better with everyone, as well as with the need to see what is being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u46	President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I asked a minister earlier about the question, " Is this not primarily a matter of personal interest in a particular matter that lies in his approach and involvement in politics for some time? ' I asked the minister earlier if he didn't think he'd be comfortable with it, so that he didn't leave himself some sort of human life left behind, so to speak, in the Ministry where there was some kind of character in his personal interest, that it would be best if the law of this operation fell off on the vote day of 2017, since it's almost the only thing that will be corrected if any sense is put in here at the end of the next election. At best or worst, there will be some prime minister who is interested in anything other than housekeeping and monuments. He might want to take to heart another matter, if the person considers the present prime minister an example in the way he should associate with the Council of Government, another concern. I'd like to ask, "Who thinks so?" A senator is the most important subject of discussion? She talks to people and listens to those comments that are very heavy. Key organizations, such as the Minjaus himself, have reason to make a very convincing decision against the case. Then the question that lives by whether the senator disagrees with me is that this is actually another bullshit case with prime minister that must be attempted to be avoided by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u47	Madam President. Della case, you're absolutely right. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. You see, it's a typical bullshit case. It is the prime minister's hobby, which is a blessed interest in memory protection and collection matters. But he does not warn that it is not very successful to bind such interesting classes to certain departments just because the minister of the company has a personal interest in the matter. Ministers come and go. Language groups continue to stream on their course. Of course, it is quite extraordinary government and shortsighted to plan the steps so that it is best to introduce a huge number of problems at the Ministry of Presidency, since the current prime minister is well - meaning to that class. The good will is no better or more beneficial, since the matter is neglected and here, without any consultation with the stakeholders, will be brought to the council by shruggingly and by no means followed by the small consultations that took place. Therefore, I would feel that the most important topic of the committee involved is to agree with the unaccounted consultation, taking into account the viewpoints presented and is called for an audience. It's natural number one, two and three. Then there is a further assessment of whether it is professional and grammatical to continue this matter at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u48	A respectable president. I agree with what has been said about the fact that it is very special and that it is not really to be followed by a minister's interests at all times. We saw it right away at the beginning of the season, when it was the highest. For example, the prime minister took up his unique task: Advertising by texting and using glamorizing a set of lawsuits that had been once in the Ministry of Education. One wonder: If a matter had developed so that the minister of education would not have become prime minister, would those groups never have been moved from there? What plan is being done here; the interests of prime ministers or some vision that we have developed in the long run regarding the best places to address? I would have thought the Ministry of Presidency and the Supreme Court. Prime Ministers should be the main object of coordination, and in fact, the highest. Prime Minister. He should focus on that, and perhaps more good things will come through his government. I think it's unnatural in the highest way. I feel like the whims of some men who are in office for a certain period of action here. I don't think it's acceptable, and it's very disappointing how much this bill is strange in many ways and it adds to the Minister's case, e.g. the legal elements that are being proposed for the word ◯Minjaustt even are taken out of the word "Proconsistency. " I don't understand. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on these tests?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u49	Madam President. I'll agree with that with what's happened. A senator said that saving lawsuits by which ministers sit in councils is completely out of the question. It would be closer to appointing the stewards to the departments in which the mercenaries live than to turn the whole thing upside down, as is being done. This actually violates good values in government. This war is against government control and the goals we set for ourselves and has generally been an undisputed member of the administration board. This calls for a mental administration and is neither reassuring nor professional, nor is it a failure to make any improvements in the seminary as it has come to him. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u50	Madam President. I'm looking at the report using the bill on page 18. 20 and 21. It assesses the financial benefits of the union of these institutions. He's not really great, he's said to be 4%. It is not surprising that he is not greater than he is. What I find uncomfortable, perhaps after observing the combined study centre and the study centre, that I'm not quite, at least not as the situation is today, that there's a lot of profit there. But I think it's a stick stick, and I wonder if there was a detailed merger plan. I guess we'll have to call for her. Since I'm on a budget board, it's our job to keep track of the fact that all of this is done as professionally as possible. Of course, if it is to be used as an argument that financial gain comes together, there must be some financial gain. Then there must be a detailed calculation, but I feel that this is not a particularly complex operation or a number of uncertainty factors involved here. Admittedly, there is talk of the resignation of employees. There are some ways of working and getting some retirement contracts, but I would have liked to see this done a lot of detail and will call for it. Has a what? A senator, any opinion that this is enough, 4% practicality? This is a business of strains, which is a total well over 1 billion. Then I don't feel that 4% is a lot of financial gain, if I'm supposed to be honest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u51	A respectable president. As mentioned in my speech, the very few financial benefits of these changes are very small and certainly not great when they justify the confusion of the whole party. The financial benefit is almost no one. These changes reduce the effectiveness and status of a head collection in memory and memory studies in Iceland. They confuse the work environment and are actually against the declared goal of increasing efficiency and respectability, as it is said. You can't see it when you start thinking that logical thing, that there are some goals that you can achieve through the changes described here. This is rash and indicates that the personal ambition of prime minister and his desire to be revered and built as a wet stone that is linked to a monument and collection in Iceland because he is interested in that matter. He seems to be trying to build a wet stone with this bill, but it's just sputum build, unfortunately. It does not have sound foundations, nor will it produce anything that is good. It's possible that the highest. The General and Education Committee may suggest something good about this case on the Committee, but I'm skeptical about it. Well, it seems to me that it just needs to start completely at the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u52	President. There will be no room for mention in the General's symposium at the end of this week that the prime minister has kept very important information confidential to the nation and to the group on his financial and financial ties. This was shown in an espionage class yesterday to the highest level. The secretary of finance believes that the prime minister himself needs to explain this matter, i.e. That a minister of finance won't. Now the prime minister has written fistulas on the facebook and on his blog, has not wanted to talk to the press. He has not come here to discuss this matter. It is in the spirit that the Minister's dealings with the General, but I'd like to ask the president, and I would try to ask him to be with us in calling out the minister's answers, how he intends to respond to this plea.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u53	A respectable president. I'll agree with this. We are now entering a two - week intermission, and it is really unusual that in no way we have discussed this with the highest degree of our conversation. Prime Minister. It would have been the monopoly that he'd been here in unsubstantiated queries yesterday because there's a lot of demand to ask the highest level. Ministers in these matters and also that he will be given the opportunity to explain his side and speak with us. This is not done by any meanness, nor is it natural for a minister who is under accusation - and here is a case that has gone on high, all of this being discussed, both speculation and opinions - to enter the council and discuss these matters. We have the right to answer the questions we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u54	A respectable president. We haven't been allowed to discuss this matter at the highest level. Minister of the council. There's only been an ongoing talk about the President's conference board, unfortunately that's all. Regardless of how people feel about the way they speak here or what they speak, I feel very important that we discuss this matter, even if it is just to discuss it. I feel very uncomfortable and uncomfortable that the matter is left behind at that point when the council is about to take a two - week vacation. That's the worst thing I think. The secretary's fists, which recently appeared, are information that is worth talking about. There's no final point in that pit of the highest. Minister. On the contrary, it is the conversation that I find very important to continue. A minister works for the council, at least according to the theory. So, of course, it's not the case as we know, unfortunately, but I'm very upset that we can't talk about it before the council goes on Easter holiday.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u55	A respectable president. Away from the highest. While these reports have fallen over the country and the people for his financial interests, the prime minister of the council has resented a body of Congress, which is to say. Hence, he has, of course, been called after his presence. Now that he is here in a house to discuss another matter, I find it normal to get involved first in that discussion now with him. It is reprehensible, and I feel that the Minister needs to explain more clearly why he did not reveal his financial ties, his financial interests, which have now become manifest and hold up billions of resources that his wife will have stored in a foreign tax field at the time of the highest. Ministers have been very involved in the affairs of demands and violations because of bank renovations and discussions about the disposal of currency stores and other things. [[The president calls.]] It's obvious to the highest. A minister lives in an economic system other than the Icelandic public and has a secret view of this information cannot be considered a normal, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u56	A respectable president. I have to agree with this. I'm sorry, I'm not particularly hoping that there will be some discussion of this matter in the Senate hall before a two - week intermission. So I would like to criticize the council administration and describe my frustration with the council's administration in this matter. This is particularly shocking in view of the fact that this week we were accepting the code of ethics of the general council. We are now taking an intermission of Easter with very urgent questions related to this code. What do they mean? What do they mean? It is so clear in the rules that members of Congress are to tell about their family interests and how they deal with them. That's what I'm supposed to do. Here we have a screaming example of it not being done. [[The president calls.]] And what's more, we have a very decisive response here that we need to digest, that's from the highest level. The President of the Generals, who completely rejects this matter. Then I don't understand the code.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u57	Madam President. I think it's the highest. The prime minister has to recognize what he would like to say that he and his family are taking their money to a tax place where the nations are now fighting the tax crisis because it naturally arouses a lot of suspicion. Not everyone sits at the same table. I told you this morning, it's the power and sheep blacking the common people who have to live with that system, the economy and the crown we live in here. Ministership is a great deal, and the duties of a minister to the council are very much involved in informing the council of what is going on there. Hence, we members of the Parliament have called for the Supreme Court. Prime Minister does this at this point, but not on Facebook page. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He has no obligation to the Facebook environment, but to the Allied Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u58	President. Yes, that is the very essence of the matter. A senator came in just a minute ago. V.E.G. Ministers have obligations to the General. It's clear of his reaction today and the lengthy fistula on his blog page and Facebook page, I think, he thinks he has to explain some things. Then he's supposed to explain them here. I think it's strange that the highest. The prime minister does not take advantage of it; he is here in the house right now. Then he will come and tell us that he will explain this matter right after Easter or that he will say something about it here while he's in a house. He's got a duty to the council. He's a member of the council. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the nation is to be answered at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u59	During the past few days, several members of the council have tried to dissuade Prime Minister's property in an attempt to undermine confidence in political resistance. The trough may be higher. It is suggested that it is illegal to own possessions in foreign lands. It's just totally legal. It is also completely legal to have property in a foreign country, the British Virgins, if so. There is now the source of these assets and the return of all taxes. That is what counts, that is, the way the law and everything were designed to be done in a manner worthy of imitation. Among the spouse's assets were bonds on the fallen banks. The lower - stock members had no distinction between those property, those with such bonds, and the majority of them lost and those of the vultures who bought the price of money to make money. [[Take it up: Hope for the vultures.]] It was leveled. [[For example: Was it?]] It just doesn't look anything like it. [[Take it up: The good vultures.]] They named the minister's spouses groping, even though she lost a lot of money at the fall of the banks. Of course, such things are completely unacceptable and will only undermine the respect of these members, their party, and the entire council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u60	Madam President. I agree with it. I have been told before by members of the council about the importance of the Supreme Court. Let the prime minister come in to answer questions that affect us generals and, as a matter of fact, the public of this country regarding a wife's economic situation. Minister and his home records. V.E.G. The secretary of the economy here said that insurance companies and when it came to paying them, insurance companies would need to participate in the same activities as the rest of the Icelandic community to build up trust here. I just want to say, Madam President, the Prime Minister needs to be involved, like others in this community, to strengthen confidence after a crash. This subject and his information on the finances of his wife and his family do not lead to greater trust in the community. [[The president calls.]] He needs to come here, review these matters with us and answer questions before the Council takes a two-week break.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u61	A respectable president. I'm not going to repeat anything that's been said here, but I'm sorry about what. paritaprevir Frosti, Sigurjónsson of Siglejo, emphasizes the need for this discussion. That's why it's very painful that we're going to Easter break without discussing it. He's stressing it for himself, in my opinion. I come here to say that the prime minister himself was not for any reason, certainly fine, attending a vote on the rules of morality. I expect there to be a legitimate reason for that, but in the light of this and 8th degree. That moral code requires that you ask yourself, " Why? ' A senator will come in the future to say that he is not in favor of those rules. If he is in favor of the protocols, he must well understand the criticism that has come up and certainly ask big questions when it comes to all of this. The other question is, if he's against them, if he's willing to say here that he is. If he is not, we need to ask ourselves, " Why have I set standards? ' We put them here for ourselves. It's such a discussion that needs to take place, a respectable president, so it's so bad that we're taking two weeks off before we can have this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u62	A respectable president. What will we consider? What is the requirement that we members of the Parliament are making for the president of Generals and Prime Minister? Is it unfair? Is it indistinguishable? Is it impossible? A respectable president. It's very simple. So we make a fair claim, and the highest. The minister of finance has agreed that the prime minister would come and make the council, and then the people along the way, explain his arrival in a foreign financial society, which would be linked to a foreign market and its stakeholders. It's not that complicated. This is a reasonable requirement, it is easy to implement. In other words, it's effective if the President of the Parliament wants it. Rather, it is a request that the prime minister give the fair perfunctory that he enters the platform and discuss it with the council. [[The president calls.]] That's a fair claim, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u63	A respectable president. I don't know why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson was referring to me or what he said about the council members in this context, but I'm going to jump for them a bullet because I've made myself known in this matter. I'd like to say a few things here. I don't believe in the property of prime minister's wife, and I'm not referring to them. She's a very nice person. I'm dealing with the highest. Prime Minister and his duties to the council, and I see no better than to the supreme. The prime minister has violated the standards of morality that we were making. I'm this opinion, I think it's pretty obvious, and then I'm afraid to ask, and we're probably going to follow this course, "What are we going to do with this code of ethics?" Now I must ask the highest. President: Can we expect future members of Parliaments who may wish to take these principles seriously and what they say to be called by other members of the council as regards such matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u64	A respectable president. I'm sure we all want to live by the moral code when it comes to taking effect, but we can't live by the moral code of the future that has not yet come into effect. [[We agreed this week.]] They will take effect at the beginning of the next assembly, as you are well aware. I think all members of the council here are going to account for everything they should be doing and, of course, the highest. Prime Minister, like others. The people here have taken quite a long time to paint the picture of Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð, the senator who fought hard for the fact that the demands of the crew were taking over, in effect, fighting backs to improve the interests of his mate. It is alluded to in one conference debate after another. This is what the same senators did, claiming that this is not a time for writing, that would be unrealistic. But the prime minister never got discouraged, he fought for his ideal, and he did what was needed to overcome obstacles. This brought what is left behind in the world. The prime minister was not in this struggle to save some money for his or her mate. [[The president calls.]] He fought for all of us, including the interests of the rest of you. Councilmen here have attempted to bring reproach on his integrity in this struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u65	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. The prime minister is here for his duty, measuring for a bill on the program of a meeting meeting. The wealth of a wife's highest. Minister is not on the program for a meeting. The discussion is good about the situation that lies ahead and a number of others are. Senators on the rosary. So I encourage a respectable president to stick to the meeting program and continue with the subject that is on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u66	President. I'm very thinking about how you're doing. This discussion is conducted by the senators of the Company, especially at the moment. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson. The fact that we follow one another by name to one another is that we call one another members of the Low House a very historic moment in the Hall of Congress. What's the minimum? It's because we think the discussion is worth 8 p.m. A new WHO code was important. [[Up front.]] It says: ▪ The Parliament's work should avoid any interracial conflict between financial or other personal interests or family interests. Can I understand that the senators of the House of forwarders believe that these rules will not be valid until the beginning of the next assembly and that they are only about written and accepted rules, but not that they feel that it is important for them to maintain moral standards in their jobs without any sign of it being written? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u67	Madam President. I've decided not to take it to myself when it happened. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is talking about members of the lowland council. It's got to just pretend it's nothing. Where do we end up if we are going to take such things to heart? Here, I think it's about trust, first of all. When the collapse of the bank collapsed here, the economy and society lost confidence, and we have fought to build it up. The situation is that they look to prime minister and wonder if he has spoken with two tongues and with each one when it comes to tax snow, when it comes to Tortula, when it is time to go into the rock - mass and ports. When those questions are raised, I don't need to be disturbed. Councilmen of the House of forwards come to say no to others. Councilmen in the hall. [[The president calls.]] This is where it's going to be. Prime Minister to appear and speak for himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u68	A respectable president. Interestingly, why not? paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson has decided to leave the council chamber now after calling the senators the names he went over earlier, i.e. Senators of the Lowland. For what? For wishing that the prime minister recognizes his interests in connection with a foreign partner, he wrote in the British Virgin Islands, family ties, that he will make it clear to the council how he has felt about keeping the information confidential to a council and to a nation. He thought of revealing it at one moment in 2013, but he stopped, saying himself in a public statement, until the reporters came to this point this week and began to question him. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson may be called senators of the low court, but it would be a relief for him to name the members of the council whom he considers lowly and speak here as members of the low court rather than scram the money on all of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u69	Madam President. I don't think it's tasteful in the highest way of what's happened. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson to call us senators, who call us "the highest." The prime minister respectfully explain his matters to the council in this regard. I've told you before, there's no one making any judgments here in advance. We, at the General Assembly of the Icelanders and as a democratic cosine, require that when such a discussion arises, prime minister believes that it is his and his family's advantage to take their family funds to the Virgin Islands, it is only very reasonable that he will account for it at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] There's not much to ask. I think it's pretty low of the highest. Prime Minister, let his fellow councilmen come to his defense, not having the courage to come here himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u70	A respectable president. I have sometimes argued that it should be unnecessary because ethics should be in the head of people and not written down on paper. That's why I have to say, I feel funny when it comes to it. A senator of the Annexe Party says that no one has to follow Article 8. The code of ethics because the rules do not go into effect until fall. That's just weird. At the same time, he calls the senators low. I have to make a serious comment to the President's conference board that one member of the council will resist coming here and call us the lowly without people at least asking to take care of their words. It's been done for less reason in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u71	A respectable president. We continue our discussion on bill to legalize the changing of cultural laws and other laws. It is being proposed that Iceland's Minja Institute and Iceland's National Museum be united and out of unity the National Institutes, which will go under the highest wing. Prime Minister. I listened carefully to the highest court case. When he had a story on this subject, the prime minister decided that if we mention him, Capacent would have performed a request and would have interviewed employees in this trade, an anticipating committee, a legislation board, to name something. He felt that all of this was well prepared and ready to go into the Council for further treatment, and his mind was heading toward the end of this matter for us. It's not the same for us senators to hear and get on the table. There is great misery and misery in the article of the professionals who work in these institutions. As noted, the history of Iceland's National Museum is 150 years old. In 2013, the National Institutes of Minja for Iceland arose, and there have not been any critical voices about the decision that this sector's professionals seem to fail at the highest level. Prime Minister. He seems to be eager to run the matter through with speed. To review only the criticisms that have been reported from a number of professionals, I plan to start with that, with the permission of a president, to refer to the association of archaeologists. They say it all went very fast. On February 19, colleagues in the Society of archaeologists comment on these matters and ask for mail to the Ministry of Presidency for information on discussions about the harmony of the Minning Agency and the National Museum. Then an answer from the Ministry of Presidency comes in this way, by permission of the president. I'm highlighting that this is February 19th this year: The Minister of Prime Ministers has appointed a panel to be identified, evaluated, and after events reorganized the projects of Iceland's Minja Office and the National Museum at that time. The law. Work is now being carried out in the Minjah Institute and National Museum analysis performed by our advisers in cooperation with the directors of the two institutions. This work will discuss with the managers and personnel of the institutions, and at the same time it will be discussed with stakeholders. At this point, there have been no decisions, and the subject is for analysis and assessment by Capacent, followed by the other sort of starts the operating group. It's March 18th. Only a month ago, the Ministry reported that no decisions had been made and that the subject was for analysis. In that town, things sometimes go quickly and sometimes not. On the social network of archaeologists it says, with permission of presidents: Then the Society, along with several archaeologists, collectors, and architects, received a meeting invitation from Capacent. The meeting was held on Thursday, February 4, and the director of the Society was found. The following is followed by a summary of the facts presented in the meeting together with key observations. The conclusion was that all the professionals who were found agreed that the National Museums of Iceland and the National Museums of Iceland were a bad idea, which included the reason that the State's Archaeology Committee was established at its time was to distinguish between National Museums that had studied the trade and that it was not considered acceptable to share the same place on both sides of the board. Go on says: ▪ Iceland's Merit Institute created a film at the beginning of 2013 and is therefore only more than three years old in the form it is today. During the three years, policies, workers have been working on, and a number of good things have been achieved. However, there is still adequate experience in the Agency to assess its progress and benefits and full reason to give her a better time to achieve and develop her goals. This is what people in the Society of archaeologists put into this work and say further: In recent years, the role of the museum involved an increase in the role of research, including Based on a contract with the University of Iceland that has not yet been approved. There is little experience on this increase in research, and it was noted that this new level of research is not compatible with MÍ's surveillance and legislation, as in the old days, and that giving the museum a better time to develop this research role before assessing how the museum has been used in this field. The Society expressed concern that possible integration would increase cultural instability in which new legislation, institutions, and cohesion have been marked in recent years. The Society also expressed concern that possible unity was accompanied by cut-offs, e.g. in the number of employees, but over the past few years, both institutions have been able to increase the number of workers, although they still lack enough workers to carry out the work required by law. Again, it was unanimously felt that the unity of National Museum and Minning Institutes was a bad idea. Visitors at this meeting of archeology Association were seeking information on the subject of a reexamination of the category, but they did not provide a clear answer. There's a lot of criticism that I can't tell was taken into consideration. This is February 19, 2016, and February 26, 2016, the Ministry of Prime Ministers comes out of the bill we're dealing with. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Organization of archaeologists rejects the entire bill on the grounds that the process of working has been unprofessional and shows lack of knowledge of the seminary. The bill is on the move, working with a professional in very small ways. Stability has been achieved in a monumental product since the creation of Iceland's Minja Institute, but the existing bill is a decline that will have lasting and harmful effects on the working environment of archaeologists and smallers in the country. It is a serious challenge to be free from scientific research with a proposal for central research policy in archaeology. If the bill is legal, it will end about 150 years of the National Museum of Iceland in the field of archeology. ◯ Under this conclusion and declaration, the chairman of the Society of archaeologists, Sólrún Inga Traustadóttir. In view of this, you would have kept it to the highest. The prime minister gave the matter more room and tried to make greater peace, especially since this seems to be a matter of the heart and a great deal of competition. Everyone knows the interest of the highest. Prime Minister on the protection of old houses and the protection of areas in their borders and good and good, I'm not going to criticize them, it's very good to do. Like others, the prime minister has a hobby. However, that is not to say that he or she lives in the Ministry of Presidency, even though he now directs it. It would be natural to take into account the professional who strongly warns against the harmony and felt that the indications that were given when Capacent sought their opinion of drawing toward this bill were taken into account. I can mention other criticismal signals that have been through the scenes of the bill that these participants were given for a very short period of time. It involves a course in archaeology at the University of Iceland, which expresses strong opposition to the ideas of uniting Iceland's Minja Institute and the National Museum of Iceland, which shows that many things can be added to the work and leadership of the Icelandic Memorial, but its institutions are not a problem. The management board of Icelandic museums and collectors also express concern over the proposed integration of Iceland's Minja Institutes and National Museum of Iceland. The Society believes that together the National Museum is alienated from its research role because this is incompatible with the role of a proposed National Institute for Change. The Society believes that the change will reduce the value of Iceland's National Museum as well as its credibility, but in general, it is believed that research will support the development and innovation needed in the collection work. And I'd like to mention, too, that Iceland's National Museum is one of three main museums, as well as the National Museum of Iceland and the National Museum of Iceland. The decline that will inevitably be involved in Iceland's National Museum during the proposed change will reduce the impact of it as one of three defined capitals under 2011 museums. At the end, I would like to mention the resolution of the National ICOMOS Committee's main committee, which operates in the mind of international organisations' aims for the protection and maintenance of cultural and environmental memory and is involved in projects that contribute to the protection of the Icelandic cultural and cultural sectors. The main meeting greatly includes the work being done in preparation and harmony of the Minja Agency and the National Museum of Nations in the preparation of the bill that we will discuss. In the same direction, it is very difficult to prepare, neglectful, and professional in this article. So I think things need more here than, like, the highest. The prime minister came in, that he might reexamine his name. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u72	President. I thank the senator for his speech. She was very careful about the comments that have been received, letters that have come to us, what we have read in articles, and what meetings have concluded. She mentions a meeting from February 19th, and now it is March 19th, so this has happened for some time. These voices come from all over the world, from people who are familiar with these things. It's not only archaeologists but also people who are in museum operations in general and people who understand the context of administration and roles gather for research and so on. All these people seem to agree that the arrangement here will not improve the nation's activities. I'd like to ask the senator if she would share in my opinion that there is something to be left behind by any quirks of prime minister as easily as possible, it was only revealed by the government, has a special interest in housekeeping, and so all kinds of laws in the country should be changed so that he can pursue this purpose. I'd also like to ask if she doesn't find it strange that she doesn't follow the Capacent report that made this assessment. I asked before who were the stakeholders, and they said, "Well, it was mentioned in Capacent's report. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we get the Capacent report here, Mr. Honorable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u73	Mr. President. I wholeheartedly agree with that. Since all the responsibility was placed into the hands of those whom you would now have felt that you do not have the professional knowledge within a table to weigh the benefits and faults of this union and when such strong criticism comes from the article. I have not yet found, at least, a voice from the article that recommends this, or I feel that this is a good step to take, at least not as presented. If people took longer time and worked with the professionals who are on the move and are willing to try to revise and strengthen the Minja Institute and the role they represent and this National Museum, this nation's capital, they would probably be able to find someone with whom they might be willing to accept. But this has been the best of it. The prime minister's appearance is somewhat marked by the fact that this is to be done; it should be his stone after the vote period. He may not see to it that he rode a fat horse in the future, so this smells a little because the project should speed up and dispense this matter and throw the floor into the golden gate. But I think that's a spontaneous requirement, and I think the General and Education Committee should, of course, be required to get Capacent's report into the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u74	President. V.E.G. A minister noted in his reply that it was common to unite organizations to protest. Of course, this is not just the case when organizations come together, with all kinds of laws come from natural sources, and they come out of their own direction and are different. I must say, most respectable president, that I do not remember hearing criticism like about this bill, which is all from one direction. I haven't seen one narrative or heard one person, except maybe this Capucent guru, recommend going that way. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she thinks I'm a bit of a memory impaired or if I can remember that this is a bit of a criticism. And I'd also like to mention that I thought it was extremely clever when it came to the highest level. The minister suddenly made it known that this institution could continue to be known as the National Museum of Iceland. A respectable president. So, what's going to be the plan to move our activities and reduce the research projects of the National Museum, transfer some administrative projects and confuse the whole system, but still let the Agency continue to be the National Museum of Iceland? I think it's only to confuse people and cover bad types.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u75	Mr. President. Of course, it is quite trivial in this discussion to think that there will be someone at peace with the Agency who will continue to bear the name of the National Museum of Iceland instead of the National Museum. It's hardly a major issue in this context or the most controversial. Rather, it's the role of the institution. Of course, the criticism, what is being done and which is taken from the Agency, and its role and what is being transferred from it under the prime minister's wing. Of course, the criticism that I have been referring to is just professional, not packaging. The unity of the strains as they have been very sensitive. That is why it is so important to prepare them very well and to have as much consultation and cooperation with the relevant parties. They agree and that cooperation has not been carried out in this process as it is already known. You can't just hide behind Capacent in that subject, you have to look at the article yourself and the people who have many years of experience and are familiar with it. Sometimes you feel that you will always take a shortcut, have already ordered the conclusions in advance in a matter such as this, want to see that it will be this way, and that the project will go into part of the Ministry of Presidency, the pet projects, then the institutions will be united - men will order the results and counseling companies, such as Capacent, according to the recipe it receives.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u76	A respectable president. This is incredible. It's a matter that seems to me to grow from the same hurt and very controversial about a reservation in the area of the highest. To protect entire settlements, the prime minister is entrusted with the authority over organizational laws. It's amazing that this matter has gone through at the council as if it conflicted with all common sense and with all your ideas of democracy and professional decision-making. This case of the same nature. Like what? In his speech, a senator again gave minister extraordinary power in a sensitive language class. That makes it 1 1 1. Remarkably, in this context, which says in a physical sense that a minister should make a decision on the matter of peace description and learning about buildings and buildings as well as building houses. That's for him to decide. This has been done in the Minjah field. Minister's just gonna make up his mind. It is of interest, as many have expected, that is not so with archeologists, ships, and boats. Then the National Institute of Peace is to be done. What does that mean? A senator? Hv. A senator is now coming from the seaside. That's what I'm talking about. A senator may be slightly offended on behalf of ships and boats in this context, that the minister is not interested in them? Why is that? Is this a natural distinction? This distinction is not made in the law now between ships and boats and ancient monuments and then in buildings and buildings and buildings. [[The president calls.]] Can be read out of this indifference to the highest degree. Prime Minister on ships and boats?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u77	Mr. President. Yes, of course it's in the eye to see that this is the way it is separated. Apparently, it's the highest. The prime minister believes that a knowledge of skills that turns to houses, houses, and so forth lies in the Ministry or to myself that now seems to be closer to me than that he considers ancient remains, ships, and boats to be better placed at the Minja Institute of professional knowledge. It says a little bit about the content of this bill that certain factors are being drawn into the Ministry of Presidency to control the affairs of peace due to the intense interest of the individual. Prime Minister of that class. We can never set laws that are designed specifically for the interests of any individual minister for any particular time. It would be quite strange then that if every Ministry or Minister were to withdraw from any other law what he was interested in, he would think it would be the best thing to do about professional perspective. I don't think we'd like to develop that kind of legislation in Iceland but we'd like to trust in the expertise that has been built up in Iceland's Minjah Institute and National Museum of Iceland and use that channel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u78	A respectable president. In this article and others, we can see so clearly how incredibly dangerous the thought of legalization is behind the bill. V.E.G. The minister decides to divide up the subjects for the protection of culture and take part of it and put it under the minister. Why? Is it not obvious that this is because he is now serving as a minister and is interested in this? There is no professional basis for making any distinction between houses and workers and ships. Clearly, this is a fundamental lack of knowledge of the role of institutions, what it means in a democracies community to make decisions professionally, and to be confident that they will be handled on a professional basis. It's fine if a minister is interested in the seminary and fine if he has knowledge of them, but it's really bad that he himself, the Minister, makes those decisions. I'd like to pray. A senator thinking it only with me. I'm not gonna walk out on top of it. the present prime minister will remain as prime minister after one year, but what if it becomes a prime minister who has no interest in the protection or protection of houses, even on the contrary, if he has no respect for these views? Where, then, are we about this law? What, then, should we do, a body of Congress, if we are faced with the possibility of receiving a minister who has the authority to prevent all the peace in the land? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u79	Mr. President. Yes, as you think about this matter more, the more you worry about such a procedure, that it is primarily meeting the interests of an individual minister who is temporarily doing that work. Of course, this is not the way we should work at the Council. Hence, the entire class has risen and expressed great concern for the fact that this matter is being wrong, bad preparation, and if there is a desire to make changes, it must take time and work in a much more professional way. It is said that the leg is being cut off from a professional harvest work in the country by means of these methods. For the execution and follow-up, should this be in the same hand? Aren't we always trying to find out that management and surveillance are ahead of us? It's just very important. The management board of Icelandic museums and collectors says, by permission of presidents: ▪ FOSOS criticisms that there is a poorly prepared bill that seems to be in no way to benefit the two institutions. - Nothing. That's deep in that year. But people don't give up this kind of paper from this sector just for fun. Well, it's not maybe the biggest punks in the country around here. So I think there must be some hearing of the voices coming from every side of the story. It says, with the permission of a president: ◯ Then the Society considers the setting of the bill and the reasons behind the proposed agreement are uncertain, but this can only lead to unremarkable remarks on the part of stakeholders.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u80	A respectable president. We'll discuss something very controversial here, so it's out of the question. Key institutions and trade companies strongly recommend that they be very supportive of this matter. At 2:30 a.m., the Prime Minister arrived at a assembly meeting to discuss the case, and there had been a special agreement on the meeting program to meet him, so that the members of the council waited until about half of the time when he could begin the discussion. He recommended the case, and I'll ask a president if he's in a house to share in this conversation with us members of the council. It must be reasonable for the minister to be involved in the discussion on such a controversial matter that seems to be a very important issue for the Supreme Court. A minister, far from being above doubt. President. It's the highest. Minister of Lord Davíð Gunnlaugsson in the house?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u81	The president sees it on screen to the highest level. Prime Minister is in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u82	President. I don't want to say it, so I'm happy to be the highest. The prime minister is in a house because of a scandal. But it is also reprehensible to the extreme. Prime Ministers show us members interested in this matter and want to discuss it, I think there are 11 now on the rosary - I don't know where it is, at least it's not visible. I think it's polite to see members of Congress that in the end. Ministers tell us what to do if they are at least on the move. It's perfectly normal for them to move away for a while and to have coffee and cake, but they keep their story and then disappear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u83	President. I would like the president to alert the Minister that members of Congress would like him to be present for this discussion. The senators have also repeatedly requested that he respond to a request that he identify the council from the way he intends to account for the position he is in because of information that he willfully conceal both the council and the nation. Then, a respectable president, I would like to ask a curious curious question: Where are the independents? Are there any members of a house of independence, or are they performing other urgent tasks? Not one independent person has been seen here since this discussion began. You wonder, " Is it any reflection of the situation in my home that here a prime minister recommends a matter of great importance and that independence is now far away? ' They run away when he speaks, and it reflects how unnatural things have become. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u84	A respectable president. I agree with the requirement here that Prime Minister, 1st of this bill, sit here for discussions, and participate most in them. If I've understood a president's right to the highest power. The prime minister according to some measuring equipment should be a relatively small task for him to come here and sit in the Senate Hall, even though only to listen to the discussion, participate in them, and answer the questions raised here. If the highest. The prime minister refuses to bring up a discussion of matters that concern him personally, his personal interests, and against all the moral and moral standards that we personally make in this chamber, and as the people do to their members, I ask the highest degree. President: Is it the prime minister who refuses to discuss the matter with you, or has he not been invited to do so? Is it the President who doesn't preach the highest? Or is he refusing to come here? It is a minimum requirement, a respectable president. It is not unfair, rather than any other requirement for the prime minister here this week, that he come to the Senate Hall and sit in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u85	President. The Congress has become a bit of a play-off by the Ministers' whim. Today we waited for an hour and a half or so, depending on the arrival of the prime minister. He may have said that he could give this matter, which is his great concern, because it shows up very quickly, at 1:30 p.m. Then he can't sit here with us. I also point to that as a sign. paritaprevir The Svandís of Svavarsdóttir noted that independence cannot be seen here. It seems, in fact, foreign to me that when ministers of forward a controversial prime report, the independence is gone. A few conscientious candidates can be seen, whereas none of them are, either. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u86	A respectable president. I agree with members of Congress to address the identity of the Independence Party and its members. When it comes to the review of this desirable case, it looks like this, and it's very easy to conclude that no agency in Iceland would recommend this, except the Independence Party. It has passed through one institution, has been let through it, and it is the House of Independence. This case is his responsibility in this room, just like a traveler, the highest. Prime Minister. Hence, there must be a legitimate requirement, at least, that members of the Party, members of the House, and members of the council in this matter, sit in this room under this discussion, and that prime minister receive, and that conditions allow the discussion to continue, sit in the hall, and participate in the discussion. I demand that a meeting be postponed, although only for a limited time, while an attempt will be made to present the prime minister at the council Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u87	A respectable president. I was just wondering if I should address the President's conference board because it's the highest level. Prime Minister is not here. I went through a little thought in my mind in that regard. You've become a bit more contracted, so you've become accustomed to the highest. Prime Minister treats the council this way. He comes here every once in a while, he has to wait for him, he's moving here, and then he's gone. In my mind, I concluded that you have to say something and make comments about it. Of course it's not okay. So I'm directed to the council board, to the council president, not to consider this to be all right. If this is to be a tradition, it's a bad tradition. Fortunately, other ministers are at the highest level. A government has changed in this regard. They're sitting here, following their own business and answering questions. It's very controversial, and I don't think it's at all. The prime minister should get away with not sitting here and participating in the discussions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u88	A respectable president. Following the discussion, and under the supervision of President, I asked the highest. Prefect earlier on whether I was not understanding 100% correctly that the case had been adopted by both the government and the Independence Party. I feel that issues that come in here are, in fact, the responsibility of individual categories, not of the government in general or of the council. The natural pass was an example of such a case in which a candidate was hardly seen in a pita. Something else. And here we are given cases where the team of cooperaters, the Independence Party, seems to have no idea. I find it very painful if we discuss such matters, there are many questions that arise, and no one really answers them. I don't think it's very acceptable. Often, this is the case with a man in the first century. It may not necessarily be so much to discuss, but when a matter is disputed, it will be somewhat credible that we in the position of government are asking one another. But that's the way it is now. There are many questions in this matter, as I say, about a supervisor or national investigator who can also be a curator, one and the same person. I don't feel that it explains how to be good. Either one person needs that assignment or two. There's nothing here to discuss. For the financial benefit of the case, I don't think it works well enough. Maybe more detailed analysis is available, I'm not going to state anything about it. That's what we're going to ask for from the budget board. However, as stated on page 19. 18 When talking about the effect of the bill: Therefore, if the objective for economic management is to be achieved and no negative impacts on the general public that require special attention, the public will have a positive effect. I don't think it's in my hand whether or not this business is going to work out. When the numbers on page 18. A study of 2,222 is conducted of about 4%. This is not much of a gain, and it is rather adhered to whether it will be achieved above the head. I don't think that's good enough. So I call attention to this, and I believe it right to have a financial committee call for a more thorough fusion program in this regard. This unity on page also caught my attention. 13 How much this can have a positive effect! Compatibility, synergistic effects, integration, increased coordination and the increased size of supporting services are reported to be more effective and will become stronger, better able to achieve long-term priorities, and that the integration of these strains may be a factor in increasing production. As far as I can remember, the present government has started to increase the number of stewards. In many cases, there may be solid reasons for having fewer units and more control. I feel that way on page 18. 13 slightly superficial, as if it were decided and then found the evidence. I'm not gonna give myself that kind of thing, but I don't think it's good enough. There have been various viewpoints that I can so repeatedly and are very special, such as that there are many times when ministers are being moved, i.e. Which once was at the Minja Institute, bringing such a professional party into the Ministry of Ministers. You can almost laugh at this or smile at at something else, but there's nothing wrong with this and isn't something we should--what am I supposed to say, as if we don't think it's a big deal anymore. The prime minister is not present in his discussion, we are gone every time he sweeps a new row into the Ministry just shaking his head. Of course, this is not acceptable. If the next prime minister is interested in a group of languages, will he rush them into the Ministry of Presidency? Do these cases have heads at home in the Ministry of Presidency? If I ever get to be a minister, would the prime minister and be interested in consumers, could I just take them and put them in the Ministry of Presidency? What about the team? I'm just hoping the team of colleagues wouldn't approve of it. That would be just a bunch of bullshit. It's kind of crazy, a respectable president, so they say. I don't understand how the government and others don't come to their senses and say, "Look, we're stopping this journey. But it is not. Just like this bill, if that's what it wants. The prime minister that it goes through will probably do that even if I somehow don't have much interest in it from a team of colleagues compared to, for example, the attendance here into this hall. It has also been noted that there are different roles in these institutions today, National Museum and Minja Institutes, that they do not necessarily harmonize. One involves research and then a administrative role. It has also been mentioned by the prime minister that experience from the present arrangement is not good. In fact, this is shown in the report. Since the 2013 Memorial Organization was set up, it is only a short time ago. I feel that we should be careful and prepare much better for such dramatic changes and, in fact, would I like to see, that when we're going into these long-term changes and to improve the situation, we should work this more cross-polently. The laws of foreigners and the work they did were given, with a parapolitic group, a representative of all classes, at the beginning of the case. That's what we're here for, we have opinions and we're up for something. Then it is really the Ministers who put away their policies and interests in their councils, and then we get the bills into the council, for example. this bill, it's really bad when it's not working well in the ground. I'm asking if it's been sent in an open narrative. I feel that I read it out on page 18. 16◯17 that was not done. But now I'm not saying it at all. But there are a number of stakeholders that have been introduced and suggested in the process, and then listed, and then listed by the people I understand, so that they were given a review of the bill. The organization of archaeologists, the National Museum of Iceland, and the Minja Institute of Iceland did so. I think it's very important in such matters that a narrative process is open so that you can make a comment during the process and when you receive the bill into the council, it's as good as possible. It's hard to get bills inside that need to make big changes if that's the result of the committee, which I'm kind of giving myself a price. So here and there is something interesting, even reprehensible. It has been suggested that there is a building protection in the Ministry as long as the ships remain at this new agency. You don't know what it's supposed to be for. I think, too, I need to get a better look at it, but I don't quite figure out the role of the CDC after it's changed. She'll be a counselor, certainly. However, the power seems to be at the minister's when it comes to peace. Money, as it were, has been assigned to this group after the decision of the prime minister, so to speak. As early as 2013, if I recall correctly, funds were added. It is clear that the lawsuits that the prime minister is interested in may be getting a little more money than many others. That in itself is interesting. Actually, I look forward to seeing the reviews. I expect in view of the criticism that has been presented in the media, by e - mails, and by phone calls that we members of the Parliament have been receiving, there are plenty of rumors. I hope the committee oversees the matter very carefully. I just hope it doesn't come back here in the Senate Hall, I think it needs to be done much better. But I am stressing that if the reviews are against a group of negatives, and there is a tremendous criticism of this union, it must be taken seriously. We should not be forced or forced against unity. It is only natural that some opposition is in union with organizations, but we have an example of success, and that is because everyone is included in it from the beginning and the goal is clear. I don't see why it shouldn't be here too. The most obvious criticism I have found is that these two institutions do not necessarily have such an effect. There is another unit of unity in this sector. But it is important that you listen to the comments, listen to them, and not always look at them, as I thought it was the highest. Prime Ministers indicate that unity is always unpopular. Then people would be happy when they were united. That's not a good point. Of course, it is understandable that people may not always be ready for changes. That is why there is a need for careful action and for everyone from the beginning. The Capacent report has been considered. Of course, it should be a part of the situation. It's available. At least I'm on hand with it. I think it's stranger matters that we're getting into this council this year, and we're waiting for big business, foreign languages, and other matters. If you're going to stress this case, I think it's strange.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech. Hv. A senator is a member of the Parliament's budget and has several experience in the handling of financial matters. Now the General Review has made an assessment of the strains, and, if I know it correctly, it has been concluded that at least during the first few years of a combined attack, there is always a significant increase in expenses. I want in. The senator will decide whether it is a reason to believe that the bill will lead to an increase in costs and whether it has been expected in the programmes involved. Second, the senator gave cross - laity talks. I wanted to ask the senator, because she is the head of Congress one of the political parties at the council, whether there was no effort on the part of a prime minister to present the matter and discuss it before it was presented in a full bill for the council. Was there no attendance on her council to prepare the case? If so, what does it look like? Hv. A senator, of course, is a high - quality district of the Northeast and is also a member of the United States of America. He is also a member of the United States of America. He is, of course, a vast wealth of ancient monuments, as well as houses that need to be stressed to protect, a whole settlement, in fact, in that excellent example. How does she see the effect of these changes in the district on the memory protection there?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u90	A respectable president. In fact, it is quite normal to assume that some expenses are expected first after the gathering, especially if it is noted that the staff should not be reduced. In itself, there is nothing to say, but there is reason to be alert. We see together the study centre and the study centre at the National Institute of Education. I'm not saying it doesn't go well, but considering the figures I've seen, we're not going to see any financial benefit from that in the first few years after we're together. I find it normal for a financial committee to call for the evidence behind these figures or conclusions on page 18. 20◯22. On page 18. 18 The bill is said to have a positive effect if the objective for business economics is to be met. It's like they're saying there's probably gonna be some way around this without their knowing it or knowing exactly what it's going to be or why it's going to be. True, it is said that it is about the residence of the Minning Institute; otherwise, it is quite vague. While financial gain may not be a goal, it is reasonable to say that it is not a goal rather than a list. There was no consultation with one or any of us in this matter, I think, between us in the council or with us generals. I didn't know this was going on, and I wasn't paying too much attention until I started hearing and getting e - mails and phone calls from people who were worried about it. I have to say, it's not common when you're in the process that you get the same reaction. [[The president calls.]] I don't think I've been able to react as much in the winter as this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u91	A respectable president. I want the senator to know why she believes that there has been no consultation but a category of prime minister and the team on the move. This, of course, is a subject that the Parliament has taken to heart for decades, providing special funds for the initiatives of the Council, both for the loan of antiquities and for the protection of houses, the housekeeping grants, in fact, have been directly distributed by a financial committee for many years. It would therefore be obvious to each person that the council would have considerable opinions on the affairs of these matters. Why does the senator think that the prime minister did not consult with members of the council on how to achieve good relations in order to order these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u92	A respectable president. I can't answer why, but it seems to me it's a little crowded to have absolutely no consultation. Perhaps this is because it has been so that governments usually pass through their affairs and do not need to think that there is some form of consultation, cooperation, or reconciliation. That's very sorry. I mentioned the former alien law or work with them because I really like the way it was done. They all came to the table in the beginning, and they were all members. In 80% of the cases, we have a case where we agree. I'm not saying there can't be a lot of things in this bill that's better, no doubt it is, and it's been shown in some of the e-mails I've been given, but there's absolutely no need to make the institutions a controversial and unpopular matter. [[The president calls.]] I don't know why men work like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u93	A respectable president. We're talking about work, like so many times before. In my opinion, there have often been unnecessary periods of such discussions. For example, it would have been possible to discuss this matter with other groups. V.E.G. The prime minister could have arranged for the bill to be discussed in advance with members of Congress, i.e. if you are in simple unity. However, the bill suggests that a minister should have a firm decision force as the highest authority. Ministers do not expect to react well after the discussion we had here on a disciplined case that promised a reservation of protection and we voted for it. So I wondered, " Why are these matters necessarily put together? ' If the matter is a simple economy and a unit of institutions, I think there's something that could be discussed. It is a decision that may concern an organization rather than just where political power is at home, which is another question, and there is no need to mix it. But like the reservation in which you feel the most. Minister is taking over. As we have seen, a number of times people suspect that it is simply because of the highest. The prime minister is personally interested in the subject, often in speech and literature. But I wonder what. A member of the council would support the unity of these institutions if the trial was different and in other matters that had to do with the minister's increased policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u94	A respectable president. I don't necessarily disagree with the institutions if they're improving, and that's clear. During this season, there have been several unitys, and some of them have actually gone through pretty well without trouble. It may be a matter of size, and it may be that active workers are more useful and more. But one of the strangest things about this is just that some of the journals are being transferred into the Ministry of Presidency, which I feel belongs to at the Ministry of Education and Culture, and only over the head to be included in the Ministry of Premiers. I would have thought the prime minister was fully imprisoned in being the foreman he is supposed to be in charge of this government. What happens after a year when a new captain arrives at the bridge? Will these laws be changed? It's a bad law they're pushing through here. Those who will then be at council must simply change the law. That's not good. We do not want to have laws to change right away. We want to make laws that will make us look ahead and make them stand. That's why consultations are so important that we look over terms. It's good to be a top dog. For example, the prime minister is personally interested in the peace of houses. I share them with the highest interest. Minister. But the jury has absolutely nothing to do with the Ministry of Presidency, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u95	A respectable president. I share that opinion with you. A senator that belongs to the League of Education and Culture. I have never fully understood the underlying issue of handling these matters to the highest degree. Prime Minister, of course, except to the highest degree. Prime Minister is especially interested in the category of languages. Of course, it is good if a minister is interested in his field. It's very good if the Minister of Education is interested in education. That in itself is fine, but the interests of the individual minister are, of course, not a critical prerequisite for determining the territory of each Ministry. If we think of the question of the union of the strains, i.e. That which should come there was no better than that which should have been heard from me. A senator would likely save some money, although at first it would cost something very small. I want to hear more about your attitude. A senator only to that end, i.e. Relations of the strains.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u96	A respectable president. It seems to me that the evidence we have under our control that, in fact, the savings are very low, so I feel that the evidence for harmony is that it's being manipulated, not up to. The unity, then, is more likely to strengthen the group and increase the ministry, quality, and so on. What I'm worried about is that sometimes the cost of unity, which we have to pay attention to, is exactly what I'm worried about. That's what we're worried about, and we should look into it, and that's definitely what we're doing on a financial committee. Regarding a minister's personal interest, I think it's the same as that of the secretary of finance taking the sports out of the Ministry of Education and Culture if he's interested in sports. The minister of finance should take no lawsuits into his Ministry. The Prime Minister takes housekeeping and other cannery to himself. [[The president calls.]] If this were a general practice, there wouldn't be much left in the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit is a fine talk, and she agrees with her discussion, depending on the fact that the matter is up to 1st. It is necessary to get a balanced view that is normal in the first round before we get reviews. At the same time, I'm going to make it clear that I am looking forward to professional reviews because it's a big, and maybe difficult thing to run into all the articles. The most important thing that caught my attention in a talk. Her comments were that the bill was on the 1st. worked in such a way that it was not well worked in the foundation. I'll be able to refer to comments to the bill on page 18. 9 that Ministers have appointed a board member who was assigned to reorganize Iceland's Minja Institutes and National Museum of Iceland. It says, with permission from the President. ▪ The group was set out to study and make suggestions on reorganizing the founding system, which could result in professional benefits. At that time, the goal was also to improve the ability to respond to the changed and increased demands of the case, as well as the economic economy [...]. If you talk about a lack of work at work, then there must be goals. Counts 'em out. A senator who works on the bill that he does not reach these specific goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u98	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, in particular, for his very frequent presence and participation in discussions and for the presentation of more members of the government, became role models. I may have talked mostly about the financial benefits, which was also one of the goals. I may not be able to answer if the bill achieves its goals. What I was kind of criticizing was that what I think is important to me is when bills begin an open narrative while they're still working in the Ministry. The Ministry has written a bill, puts it in a review process, and receives tips, and can take into account the comments that come. I read that the bill was sent only to National Museum, Minjaus Institute, and archaeologists. In this process, we often make many good comments, and I think it matters. Some things wouldn't beat me wrong on the bill and just make me feel better. But I'm not convinced that there's a point where people can basically determine if a national monument and a museum manager can be one and the same person, they just have to come out. These two parties should have a clear field of work. If this is going to be the same person, it will probably be even more extensive. The ministry's transport to various projects is also disambiguous and so forth. So I think too many questions arise. That's why the review process at the council is extremely important. I hope that as many of those who have something to put in the envelopes, we can look at them and take even deeper discussions in cover 2.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit for her answer, and she wants to add the question of work to her bill. That, of course, is a very difficult task. In fact, this was mentioned in the talk "Wicked. " A member of the council that it is quite normal when such a dramatic issue is under way and changes announced that opposition would arise. It is the very same when it comes to such changes. But I'll have the second answer, a respectable president, add two questions to my first question, first of all. A senator does not consider this to be an improvement because it is a process, as she said, when professional reviews occur. ... andtheneachother. A senator believes that there would have been more width in the control group.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u100	A respectable president. I think it's just like that. A senator says that when it comes to changing, uniting, or such things, our nature is to be perhaps afraid of change or at least have a warning about them. I don't think it's easy to go into unity, but it has to try to win it as well as it can and get everyone from the beginning. Especially is it important for the staff to see the application opportunities in a united organisation and that unity can be beneficial for all. In this case it is not as often as it is when branch offices are out in the country, fear that the reports will be far away from the capital area, or that an institution is being moved, and people do not know if they need to move with or what happens. That's what we're talking about. It's going to be more and less in the same place that nobody's going to be dumped. I view the comments that have come to describe not only fear of change but also fear of change because they are made by professionals who know this area. [[The president calls.]] It speaks from experience, and it only shows that many of these changes do not benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u101	A respectable president. It has been observed in a careful study with members of Congress that one independent person is in the house, that is, in a state of shock. paritaprevir Konráðsdóttir Konástsdótttir, who is the president of the General and Education Committee, the committee that accepts this very controversial matter. I especially rejoice that she has come to the Assembly Hall and is expecting her to participate in our conversation. As mentioned in the discussion of the committee, there is considerable opposition in the professional environment to this matter. I'm a little curious to hear what's wrong. A senator takes care of himself in the procedure and progress of the situation. That's what happened. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson felt that the matter had to be addressed well so that the council could accomplish it well. I especially want to know because I had a meaning of the lack of independence in the hall that I believe that this is the case. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konsleydddótttir is a fine representative of that group and, of course, hopes that she will be involved in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u102	President. Certainly, it should be welcomed at ease. The senator, president of the General and Education Committee, who will address the case, is here and therefore should also be delighted. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson is here. I specifically assign him as a candidate who is in attendance - indeed, it is a rude word to use, a respectable president - who takes his duty seriously to listen to the discussion that is being conducted in this room. You're not supposed to be ashamed of the few people in church. I only fall into that pit because I don't think it's acceptable that there are no more members of the government because it's very controversial. Perhaps they are trying to disrespect us and the matter by not coming here. [[The president calls.]] I certainly don't mean these two fine senators who are here, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u103	V.E.G. President. It's a pleasure to be happy that I'm in the hall. It's good to have that spirit. Because the question is, what is the history of this case going to be carried out on the board? I can tell you that I expect it to be a standard procedure. When we get bigger issues, especially where there are strong opinions, we usually have about three weeks' notice, so to speak. Of course, after reviews have been received, we welcome visitors, listen to different viewpoints, and try to find out what is most relevant. There was a meeting at the World Committee at lunch, where they sent out the information that the Minister of the Interior spoke of the compromise. On April 11, the date of the Passover is set aside. In this case, there was a very extensive consultation and review on the part of the Ministry and a great deal of work on a committee that worked that issue. I hope that this case will come to a committee, so we can start to study all the comments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u104	A respectable president. I thank the head of the General and Education Committee for informing us about the situation on the committee, but it certainly brings us to our attention the tremendous contrast between the practices of the committee's advisers. Minister of the Interior and the Supreme Minister. Prime Minister, for the issues below from the highest level. Ministers of the Interior are matters that have been discussed, on which they had extensive consultations, including the following: with all the members of the council, and therefore are properly prepared for action and can be performed safely. On the other hand, the case of prime minister, such as the demon of the sheep arm, stands out on a little notice without any consultation before it came in, and somehow it is expected to be delivered within a few weeks at the end of the assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u105	President. Thank you. A senator, president of the General and Education Committee, for the information in which it says that issues are controversial or that significant comments are given to the committee for a period of three weeks. She probably has, like me, read the news and observed the discussions here today. There's a lot of comment on this bill, so it seems to me that it will be given three weeks' notice. I want to use this opportunity to encourage all who are interested in it or who are interested in it at all - they do not necessarily need to take advantage of it. Many people do not focus their interests on the matter, but they care about them and do not want to change the faith that is involved. There is, of course, no doubt that the matter goes to a committee, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u106	President. Thank you. paritaprevir An Unnur Konráðsdóttir Conspiradót for completing a meeting board report on how to handle the case on the General and Education Committee. I have good experience with being on that committee, is an assistant there now, and I know that people are striving to do things well and put in their stitches. I am impressed by the contrast between the well - prepared cases coming to the council. I find general concern, Mr. President, that there is no more harmony between what the Ministers have brought to the council. It doesn't really work to bring up issues that are having a rift with stakeholders into the council and leave the Senate to try to patch up strings or to run the case through with some kind of bullying. I have strong faith that the General and Education Committee is trying to listen to all these voices, do it well, and handle it carefully. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u107	A respectable president. Early products can be done well, and they can be done badly. Here was a reference to why. The head of the General and Education Committee, Konráðsdóttir Brá Cons Councildsdóttir, the bill on the interjugation that we discussed earlier today, the careful consultation that lies behind it. I can also name foreigners, but that work has been conducted in a transpiritian committee, and there is a large legal section of a large case that has taken over a comprehensive narrative in the Ministry; and much I would rather be discussing that issue now, a careful bill that had received a comprehensive understanding in society, and a transnational agreement was that because men had worked hard to reach it. That's how I feel it should be legal. That's how I feel that the Ministers and the Ministry should approach this subject. What do we have here? Once again, an amazing debate of the highest order. The prime minister thus burned to nearly all who serve in the field of the bill, and are professionals, educated in these articles, archaeologists, and others, against it. They use strong arguments against plans presented in the bill, and you read through the report, and you cannot see that the process of reporting was very rich when it was built in the Ministry. In fact, I think I've seen it in the news that those hired to be in this special group of consultations over noncommunications, so it's amazing when there seems to be some pretty vague standards on how to proceed well with the bill when you're a minister that it should be done, that a minister should act like that. Maybe there's something in some way that's making progress in this case, and I can't wait to discuss it on a General and Education Committee. I'm on that committee and I'm gonna be there, I think I can say that I'm going to be very critical of this bill, and I'm looking forward to the explanation of those who wrote it on why they're like them and why they're going on this expedition. I'm dying to hear the answers. I'll tell you how the bill beats me. What comes to mind is a very famous feature of the Woody Allen comic film Bananas, where a dictator who has just reached power in a highly underdeveloped democracy goes to the steps of the House and declares the first law, where 1k. I remember that all the subjects of the land, from day to day, shall walk in their knickers on the outside, and the rest shall think that from this day forth the language of the people should be Swedish. Perfectly subversive by law. That's ridiculous. Obviously. That's how this bill beats me. I think it's a mistake what I think is a normal environment and a natural setting for all these matters. First, it's the uniting plans, all of them. What beats you there is that these areas have just been set up, these aspects of society, the code of law. This was done in 2012. Then the Minja Institute of Minja came into existence. For one thing, it was based on comments made by the Contestant Institute and felt very important that the government and research would be separate in the country. As far as I know, there's been a lot of improvement, and we've been able to explain all the details involved. It's a Minja organization that plays the administrative role. It is a permiteer when it comes to granting permission to archeological research and it is a surveillance agent and then the National Museum, it has been growing up as a research agency, and it has become a powerful partnership with the university community in its role, and then it has been stressed, and it is supported in the current legal structure, to promote cooperation between them, obviously, but it is very important to distinguish these units. It's just been done. I can't see, when reading this bill, why does it have to change? What was so bad about the legislation that was going to 2012 based on very urgent comments, e.g. From SEC? They're stepping back here. This is where these institutions are to be united. Archaeologists now make it very clear that this book is ending the 150 - year history of the National Museum. You listen when archaeologists say that. Then you read the bill, and there's some pretty weird articles, such as the fact that the National Museum goes to the National Institutes of Nations and the directors of National Services, according to Article 28. The bill, can decide on its own to be the curator of the National Museum as well. He can only decide. He doesn't have to ask anyone. It reflects the attitude of the National Museum in this bill. You can't see they're going to be an independent research agency. I don't think it's something different in this legal field. So I'm not discussing possible financial benefits, I'm just dealing with the fact that it's completely illogical why the changes made in 2012 were done on a professional basis. Why is the independence of Iceland's National Museum as a research organization so important to our country? What for? The answer may be in the other part of the matter, but I have considered this inconsistencies in my mind, on the one hand, and on the other hand it is power. That move, that part of the bill, that's especially what reminds me of Bananas by Woody Allen. This opportunity to be taken - it is stated in 11. g., which says: ▪ National Institutes of Social Affairs offer proposals for peace descriptions and its suspension in archaeology, ships, and boats. On the other hand, it says: ▪ The secretary makes a decision on the matter of peace and learning about buildings and monuments as well as building houses. In current laws, there is no distinction between ships and boats and ancient remains, monuments, houses, and buildings. This is all considered cultural value, for which the Minja Agency offers proposals for peace, makes them professionally, and sends them suggestions for ministers. But why is a bill writer dividing it up now? The archaeology, or the Minja Society as it is today, is to be discussed with the archaeologists, ships, and boats, but ministers are to be at peace with their homes and edifices. According to the bill, which was remarkablely agreed at the last council on the protection of historical communities, so the minister has authority over that declaration, too. So, at the highest. In this case, the prime minister, by means of this bill, has the universal authority for the peace of buildings and buildings and constructions of Iceland. Mr. Secretary is an individual. We never really know who he is, except every four years. We don't know who will be the Minister of these matters after the next election. We don't know. Perhaps it is just some person who has no interest in this and who has no interest in clearing houses, no interest in protecting the settlements. Maybe he's just a very busy man, and he just wants to ruin it. So, what sound do you hear from a eraser? Now there is a sitting minister, who is interested and well interested in clearing a house. Fine. Good for him. I have that too. But this is not how we make decisions. These aren't decisions made. They're taken by professional sources. They are taken from institutions and taken from those who are familiar with them. Otherwise, everything's going to fall apart. The examples you consider here: So the past part of the discussion was raised, so the discussion also discussed regarding the protection of historical communities. What if a minister is interested in some sports branches or children's playgrounds or wants to come to more kick fields without a tyre? Should he, then, just take that group out of organizational order and take over the right to make decisions? Of course, I'm interested in houses and old houses and all of that, and now I'm renovating one house myself with my wife, and I'm also interested in society and error, and I've been having some comments about it. What if I now became a prime minister who has little chance? So should I be able to pass by the Precinct that the matter of child law and child protection should be subject to the Ministry of Presidency and then bring in a prime report that the decision of society, which has been very controversial, is now a minister of the county? I mean, isn't it quite comparable? And somehow I would try to back it up because I had so much knowledge of this, my decision would be in terms of society and ideals of great righteousness. But when you see such a delicate example, you see how ridiculous it is. No matter how contented or disgruntled people have the present arrangement, it would be completely absurd if I or another minister were to exercise authority, for example, in the prefect. Or just that a minister is taking over the prosecution. Isn't it just the next step to bring a court case law here and hide prosecution because a minister is such a great criminal interest? It's such an adventureful lot of nonsense. I would also like to draw attention to the conclusion of my talk that here we are not talking about minor things. We're talking about a minister getting just a sceptre, a wand called a peace description. He can wield it. He can say, "Hey, I'm just gonna break your house down, lying-link-o," just live here, come on, you can't do anything more with your house. Maybe you buy a house. My family and I were buying a house three years ago, an old house. We're working on its rebuilding. In what kind of society do you want to live in this regard? You don't want to risk the peace-porting political opponent of a man's house, just come and say, "Hey, it's peaceful now. It's quite an amazing house, and it's a cultural value in a house, now it's a peaceful house, and the Minister decides it. I would like to ask people to consider the extent to which this intervention is taking place, into the privacy of a household, into people's independence, into freedom of movement, into some way that they can have legitimate expectations of something. So I wondered why, in fact, there was no reason why, because it says in the report that it was not done, to see if the regulations of the bill fit in with the regulations of the constitutions. Is the legal requirement that a minister have such great authority over a person's property that he can properly declare it? When you want to move a peace-lit house according to the rules of the bill, if you want to move it, take it somewhere else, you have to ask a minister. That's what you need to ask a minister. He can say no. What is a person's position on this authority? And there's something very important. It is given in a national reservation. It's said here at 35. not according to 1st. Section 4. for evaluation based on these values, a minister may assess localised values and decide that they should be a reservation. [[The president calls.]] He can only make a special provision for the controversial matter that will help a minister to counter the self - determination of his community so that I can now mention a second rule of the constitution that might have added to this bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u108	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech. I want to agree with him when he criticizes this bill. One of the main elements of the bill suggests that the National Museum of Iceland and the Minja Museum of Iceland will be united in one institution, National Museum, although it will continue to exist as a chief museum, and in terms of specialisation, even if it falls under the new agency. This key element has been criticized by scholars. Some would like to say that the days of the National Museum are included as a research agency, that the feathers, so to speak, are under no name. I want to ask you why. A senator if he's not worried about this. The bill refers to the search for examples from Norway, after which scholars working in Norway, including those in Norway, have been visited. Þóra Pétursdóttir, a specialist in archaeology, noted that in Norway this is precisely so that governments and research are separate. But it is somehow in the bill's caption that we are doing what Norwegians are doing. I want to pray. A senator on wondering where this will lead us, both by the National Museum and by its role, as well as by what the effect it can have on government and research under the same standard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u109	A respectable president. It is often difficult to participate in a conversation where things are turned that way on the head, as when Norway is mentioned as an example. It may well be that something is similar in some way, but basically this case is totally contrary to what is in Norway, with the emphasis on the separation of administration and research. It seems to me that this bill is the motivation to view the views as very trivial, as if he didn't get them properly. The U.S. Contestance Commission made comments. They are referred to in the 2012 bill article at the time of the Minja Society. Why would the Contestant Organization make the statement that it is to be a government organization on the other hand and to research institutions? Why is this competitive? Is it not because there are a lot of professionals in this country who want to do archaeological research, and therefore it is important that the permit party be in one place and that he be able to transfuse and equal in his decisions about who gets permission for archeological research and so on? I can imagine. Since the National Museum is, of course, a fundamental institution in archeological research and basic research, it has been stressed that there is a rich cooperation between these institutions. This is the model suggested. It's the model in Norway. You cannot help but trace this point, expected it will be on the committee, to the claim that this is being done as in Norway because, in principle, it is not being done at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u110	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. In his speech, a senator made a good study of how he felt about the fact that he was jumping and making the highest interests of himself. Prime Minister into the Ministry of Presidency in the way the bill proclaims. I agree with him. It's come to the attention of this highest one. A government has no work, and it needs to look back more than 20 years in time to find such few governments. Here's the top priority. The prime minister for discussion and just over a year left of the election season, and I don't think there's any chance that the case will go through at this spring meeting. I want to pray. A senator to bring up the issue of government and painting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u111	A respectable president. It's incredibly tragic of how much delay has taken place at the highest level. A government to come in with something very important. For example, I mentioned in my talk the foreign bill that has been well-worked and in need of a very conquistador, and we need to accept it and cross it. Why isn't that coming? Why does this matter take place that is in no way reasonable in determining a priority? The entire class is against that. There's one thing I hope that people will think about convoluting treatment of the case, which is that there's no mask that there's a certain minister here, chief. The prime minister, who wants to have authority over decisions, makes important decisions, but he will be prime minister only one more year at the most. [[The president calls.]] As soon as people realize what I think is very easy to grasp, they'll see better how ridiculous it is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u112	President. It has been observed in the discussions about the President's conference board that gradually during this term, you have become accustomed to things that are completely intolerable. You are getting used to the fact that a prime minister gives little for being present at the General Assembly, and another is that there are repeated attacks on what he is personally interested in. This is a behaviour that belongs to people of a different age and in a different stage of development, i.e. to sit at the counter and point out what he wants to see, and he wants to have and he wants to own, and those who sit at the table will have wishes because otherwise it will be so devastating. This is a concern in politics and for the lesson we were going to learn from the collapse. I'd like to pray. A senator thinking only about it with me that we agreed on all of the Parliament's resolutions in September 2010, which was the lesson we were going to draw from a report by the General Assembly of 2010. You see, we were going to study, and we were going to do better. Among other things, we intended to ensure that the Council will become its independent and fundamental role. That must mean we'll take the crap and put it away. We'll take a bullshit case and, at best, we'll fix it and make it acceptable. We do not take part in handling matters that are ruined from day one. The general council here also concluded that there will be serious criticism of Icelandic politicians and that learning from them will be done. What does it want? A senator comments on the question of linking this proposal with the existing bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u113	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I see it in that context. I was just talking about in my speech that there are some very delicate ways that the Ministry and Minister can present a bill and try to do it well. Granted, there are controversial issues, but there is also a bill to be put in and do well in controversial matters, but we've got far too few. Still, we've got primes that are well-worked and I think the professional aspects of the consulting and counsellors who want to do well in this situation have grown stronger. For example, I welcome consultations in consumers that have taken place in the terms of the season, in foreign affairs, in the detriment of a currency burglary. Of course, more consultation could have been made over a period of time, but it was considered. It seems to me that many ministers have exerted themselves, though they have been too limited. But class violations are the basics of the Ministry of Presidency. They're very amazingly processed. They are presented in disgruntled numbers, and they do not meet the requirements for consultation and logical support. Then they reflect an amazing understanding of democracy, an amazing approach to power that you must protest with all force. That's why it was so disappointing, I thought, that such strange cases and dangers in the treatment of power, such as a reservation on the reservations should have passed through the council and agreed. There a minister was empowered to bypass organizational laws in protecting entire settlements. [[The president calls.]] Whether this matter, which is identical in this matter, is a natural question at this point, will also be passed through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u114	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We used to discuss matters that are somewhat similar to what happened earlier. A member of the council brings up an unprepared case from the Ministry of Presidency. This suggests that the minister of foreign affairs has also repeatedly presented bad cases and poorly prepared, to form the decomposition of the Development Agency. Then there was the problem. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son says that it was not right to be unemploying with institutions, that is how he put it. This is being done because there is no professional or economic reason to do this. I see why. A member of the council feels that it is abnormal to the lesson we were going to learn from the collapse, economic and political collapse, that this matter will pass through the council, and through the council, it would be evidence that the greater part has not learned such a lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u115	A respectable president. Yes, you can draw that conclusion. This, of course, is a test. In the case of a reservation, none of the members of the council felt that the case was total nonsense. You can't say it any other way. Yet it was accepted. It always sucks to see things like that happen. Now you just have to hope that the council is better up. One thing that was very important in the study report and in the work that was involved in identifying that report and drawing conclusions from it was to further the need for the independence of the council. It is in these matters that test the independence of the council. I want to take this opportunity and encourage you. A global and educational committee to approach this as it has done in all other matters, with a critical mind. We are to be critical and not to accept anything we disagree with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the most excellent speech that I generally agree with. Hv. A senator comments on how the case is handled. I don't quite understand what that attitude is. A senator will determine whether or not to unite these institutions. A senator feels of the general unity of the institutions, especially in the light of the underlying factors. I just agree with what. In this case, a senator is in the best position to fall uncertainly when it comes to the upper end. Ministers and simply undesirables, according to the professions and stakeholders I've heard from up to now. I wonder what's wrong. A senator looks at the collective unity of institutions in general and what he would consider as an example of the grammatical basis for uniting such institutions, whether primarily to consider increasing some kind of economic advantage or to increase the work or improve it and how it should be improved. A senator envisions that the goals could be met by conquistancy treatment. The reason why I ask is that we are discussing the matter with the council, the church treatment, and all that. In this context, the foreigners'law is too named and the wonderful cooperation that has taken place there. I wondered if it's not what's called the English - language engineer, I don't know the English word for it, a respectable president. Wouldn't it have been enough talking to professionals, listening to professionals and stakeholders in this matter more than simply forming a huge cooperation? I agree, but I don't think there would have been a whole committee to discuss the matter. [[The president calls.]] What's the stand? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u117	A respectable president. No, I don't think it takes a parapolitic committee to prepare a bill like that. On the other hand, I gave examples of matters that were handled well by my knowledge. Among them is the foreign bill, which was a transliterian term. We've got the mid-language in here, and I can't help seeing that it's a well-worked bill. Of course, there'll be a review in the General and Education Committee, and we may see some bait on it, but it's working well, there was no transverse committee behind it. And then I also mentioned cases like waives and stuff like that. It was mentioned. It's all going around. In any case, there are many ways in which you can consult. I think it's obvious that this case requires consultation with a professional. I said that I thought it would be strange to bring this matter in here when it is just accepted. This was done in 2012, at which point the Minja Institute was set up. In any case, it will have to allow the experience to develop and then learn from it. It hasn't been done. Hv. A senator asks himself if I am opposed to the union. I can't see that it's well-founded, no, because there's a fundamental element involved in the separation between administration and research, and it's being violated. It is designed to promote independence and, in fact, the existence of the National Museum as a potent research unit in Iceland. So I feel that the unity is very incomprehensible, and I listen when professionals criticize her. But I'm not in the prince's mood against the institutions. Then I'll get to the other factors, if I'm involved in two factors, it's the harmony, and the transfer of authority to the minister to decide and intervene, there's a case that can make a big difference. I'm the prince against it. [[The president calls.]] I'm totally against it, and I'm going to make them look better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u118	A respectable president. I wondered, " How should I consult or take a difference in my consultation with stakeholders and professionals on the other hand and how to agree with them? ' Now people have complained that little consultation has been done with professionals but then they give them data, and you see that not only a brief consultation but also a complaint not to listen to the position that will be presented in the discussion. And it's not from one or two parties, it seems to apply to their majority. So I wondered, " Is this crime here that discussed with professionals and stakeholders was too limited or was it part of a political partnership? ' You see, I can only see the need for the council to know about this and to take some position, to give tips, but the highest job. A prime minister should be listening to a professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u119	A respectable president. It is a fundamental principle in the matter of Congress that when a panel is being discussed, she has consulted with professionals in all matters. It is called by the reviews of the professionals, and all I have done is that members of the Parliament try to listen to them. However, there are exceptions, such as those in this case, who are incredibly suspicious and indicate that the person who is most interested in the case, the highest. Prime Minister, have some special objective. Clearly, he wants to influence the house peace and organization of this country. He wants to be a direct influence, but his interest must never lead us to compromise in the council from the basic princely act of listening to professionals in the matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u120	A respectable president. In this case, I believe we are extremely close to a case we covered back then and it was called a reservation in which similar criticism was present, i.e. to the maximum. A minister takes a personal interest in himself and puts laws or bills in order to improve his interests, apparently. That's why this is the case at the highest level. Prime Minister, not for example, when it comes to financial matters at the highest level. The financial and economic minister is that the jury is in the wrong place. The metal party's supposed to be at the Ministry of Education and Culture. Besides, it seems more and more obvious to me as it is referred to here more often, it's completely on the table, that this is about education, and this is about culture. Where else would they live? I'm quite worthy to mention it here at the beginning of my speech that I'm not basically against the institutions. I don't necessarily object to the merger of these two institutions if there is a grammatical evidence to which I have not yet seen, so I can't be persuaded. Depending on why. The educational committee I am in might well be performing some new evidence that will convince me that the unity of these institutions would benefit. However, I have to say that as soon as the evidence has been made on this subject that strongly points in the other direction, it's not a good idea. First, it's the timing. There is no significant experience in the current arrangement. The Miniature Institute is about three years old. Recently, the value of research at the National Museum has been increased. The frequency of archeologists has expressed concern that by moving even more in the acoustic process at this point, this will further increase the uncertainty of the inevitable changes. This does not mean that we can never make changes, which means that we should do them well and in conjunction with professionals and groups. For example, this has been done between 2005 and 2011, and there is no basis for it. Also, there should be no need to stir the matter constantly. It's obvious to the highest. A minister has failed in his consultation with professionals and stakeholders to persuade Minja Institute or course of education in archaeology or Icelandic society and museums or the Fégaga of archeologists on the subject. These are organizations that I would have thought should be rather than easy to convince are certainly not opposed. I think it's a primitive if we're talking about a case that's actually supposed to improve the group. I don't think it's possible that these people would strongly oppose the case just for their own interests. These people choose their prospective professions and jobs within the lawsuit because they care about him and want the best for him. Therefore I think that there is no more saying that there is no heed to this party. People do not have just a few questions about the possibility that there may be something wrong with this matter, they strongly object. In spite of this, the bill's report speaks of extensive consultations. I can't see from the evidence given to me senators and I have received on the case from stakeholders and professionals that the agreement has been extensive. However, it is the nature of the matter, according to the fact that you listen to the tip and you may change the case in accordance with the indications, or if this is not a good idea, you may not turn away from it. But once again, you feel it at the highest. The prime minister does not listen, nor does he take note of indications unless he is as a personal attack if anything is more typical, at least I have not gotten used to the highest level. The prime minister pauses and thinks: Yes, okay, good thinking, let's think about it a little, let's just fix it a little, now I see what's better. On the contrary, the truck continues without regard for stakeholders and professionals again and not to hear what the high Council has to say about it. I can well appreciate that when it comes to unity, people are no doubt afraid of what they are doing or are concerned about their work. I think that's normal. I also think that it is possible to answer that question to professionals and stakeholders. Here we were assured that no one would lose his job because of these changes. Okay, okay. Was it not possible to convince the stakeholders if that is the only reason for their firm opposition to the case? You see, I don't think that a professional is automatically afraid of a change and is therefore against it. I think these people have a lot of ideas about how to improve the job, and they haven't had a chance to review all those ideas, but we have access to them. They've been sending us. I'd like to quote one of the benefits that we received, and I'm from the 19 February 2016 Social Society of archaeologists. This will include the discussion, with the permission of a respectable president: ▪ An idea that this matter would need to be considered in a larger context and that it could be followed by Dana's example in these materials that combined all cultural problems, below one hat, Kultryrilelen, directly under the Dana Ministry of Culture. Under it would be the National Museum and the Minja Society of Independent Units, which would benefit from being within the ranks of a larger civilisation organization with the leading broad task force of experts. It is obvious that these communities, these sides, do not automatically oppose changes. This idea does not establish the integration of these institutions, for there is a very critical reason to separate them and to have the arrangement as it is now following the 2013 Minjan Institute, i.e. separation of research and administration. There are grammatical reasons for what I can't see anyone has answered. So I miss the fact that this isn't part of the conference here, although I don't necessarily expect them to do so in this case, because it's the typical way at the General Assembly, which I might come to later if time permits. When it comes to taking into consideration professional views, why not ask professional groups what needs to be done? Shouldn't such ideas come from over there rather than from the highest level? Minister? The evidence also shows that this has its origin at the highest level. Ministers themselves, not to some professional, not because someone saw a problem in the administration or in the studies requiring that this be done, there are some other ideas, but even if such tips did not come from professionals, they would probably have listened more and more to complaints there and worries and have respect for the professional and grammatic views of separation and administration. This case is all evidence of being a pet project at the top. Prime Minister. If this was the first case of that kind, you may not be able to speak so harshly, perhaps not. But this is not the first of these matters. This is the most repeated pattern in the highest range. Prime Minister when it comes to the seminary. You can't see it only at the council, you can also see why he's interested, what he's talking about. It's definitely a field of interest. prime minister, and nothing wrong with that. That in itself is fine. However, it is not a perennial requirement to resort to the seminary, which in accordance with the nature of the case at home in the Ministry of Education and Culture, and to be constantly presenting with some ideas that are deeply opposed to the interests and professionals involved in the matter. Now could be the highest. For example, the prime minister is here in answer, expressing his vision of the location and why of this seminary. He could here give a study talk on the subject of having the seminary of the Ministry of Presidency, but he does not. He does not, because there are problems in the conference process and how the General Assembly operates in general, which I think is a perfect motive, not just in this matter, but in many others, to discuss here in detail and more. In fact, I have long held the view that I have not yet managed to persuade others. Councilmen that the President's conference board should be a regular part of the program and that it should be here with full speeches and answers and all that is part of the customary treatment of the Parliament's decision-making and bills and the like. I think that when it comes to contingency treatment, it would have been possible to consult with other members of Congress on this matter. I don't think it would have been necessary to start a special committee of it, but I think it would have been good if it had been spoken of first, even to get in advance what the tips would be, what would have to say about it. This does not require that everyone agree or always take the same steps in the same direction. We wouldn't be in politics if it worked that way. Then it would be just a business, not the democratic institution of the Council. There would have been no need for a large task, as was done in the law of foreigners, a much greater task, obviously. But perhaps that's because of the context with another subject, i.e. National reservation law, at the highest level. Ministers simply do not dare or do not care. It would also be in accordance with the pattern you are accustomed to from the highest. Minister. The same points out in this bill and what I mentioned before and before. Councilmen have mentioned earlier, i.e. The tendency to take over to the minister who you do not see there is no reason to do. You are to give a warning when it comes to professional decisions, informed decisions made on some basis based on professional views. I don't think that it should be a political decision which houses are incarcerated or like. To the extent that it should be political, it should be clear that this would take the initiative from those people who know the sect best if there are any political issues. It's best to bring them up if they want to. I see no reason for that right now. However, it is not proper to take the authority to the minister under these circumstances when the sect is in the coalition department and when there is such deep opposition from stakeholders to the matter. In my opinion, it's simply that way. The prime minister suggests legislation in order to pursue his own interests. That is not a perplexing prerequisite. In 11. par., in C- team 16. and in the 21st Team. The bill is an example in which a minister takes power from the current law and is absolutely unnecessary, as far as I can see. I didn't hear any evidence for this change from the highest level. Prime Minister. The situation as it is at the High General Assembly, although after five o'clock on Friday, which is, unfortunately, not uncommon when it passes through the council, is that the therapy has ceased to be defined by what you would have thought the World Council should be about, i.e. of debates between government opposition and government and, of course, Congress in general. We have six members of Congress with different viewpoints. On the contrary, it has become typical that this is an issue known to be a conflict that has been pointed out, contrary to arguments, grammatical arguments, professional arguments against the issues of professionals and stakeholders. V.E.G. The prime minister shall speak for the matter, and answer: for he hath an obligation to do so; he will give his speech. All right. This is a matter for the council, and I do not expect the supreme. Minister be here forever, but I expect this room to be a topic of discussion. I expect an argument to take place here. In general, they do not occur when only the government's side is here to talk about the situation, not the administrative point. For this, of course, there are deep reasons. There are problems here at the General Assembly, and they have deep speeches in the general functioning of the General Assembly. There is no one alone to blame. It cannot be blamed for control or opposition. There's more of a problem you need to spend more time talking about, so the President's conference board should be here on a regular program. But I'm sorry about the discussion in this matter, as was so often the case before. I still think it's a sign that we ought to review very seriously how we're going to conduct matters at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u121	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The fine talk of the Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson He missed a discussion and a discussion. I'll try to take the initiative to have a conversation with you. A senator on the matter and now known only to the jury, for in recent years he has been undergoing great changes. As recently as 2011, there were new laws on culture that were adopted here. Then Iceland's Archaeological Protection and the Peace Committee were united in one institution, the Minja Institute. In 2013 that unity went into effect. The thought behind all the changes was to keep to the points that had actually occurred in 2001, to separate my own government and to collect and research, on the other hand. You could say that with a bill at the highest. The prime minister has left that path entirely. It surprises me since when I read a pedestrian poll that leads to the basic bill, in which it is precisely discussed that a good deal of consultation has been made with the parties, that it appears that only the personnel of the institutions were contacted. It is not discussed with those members who need to interact with these institutions. On the other hand, the demand for harmony will create a high degree of lower - quality memory protection in Iceland from the public view. I don't know if the public has experienced some particular misunderstanding at the Memorial protection in Iceland. I allow myself to question the general public at some particular stage in memory protection in Iceland, no more than the rest of the people, stakeholders, i.e. The people who are to work under the law. Although the evidence has not yet been received, the stakeholders who are to be employed under the law are already contradicting. They point to the fact that there was no consultation with them with this bill's contract. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the job when working on such issues: How does he feel about this method of action, in which conclusions are drawn without apparent discussion with anyone in order to support this conclusion? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u122	A respectable president. I wish I would be surprised to hear such things. I wish I had some scandalous feeling, but it's kind of over, and I'm kind of done with her when it comes to this particular complaint. This is way too typical. Here we also learned that even in this case, the trade process could have been better if we had not necessarily taken over my terms regarding the activities of the council and the dealings of the Generals and Ministers, or if the Minister is seeking further authority. There may well be a financial basis for a minister to make some decisions, but that is not what I see in this matter and not what I see in matters from the highest degree. Prime Minister in general, especially if he is taking over the whole group. But even if we weren't going to talk about the work at the General or General's position regarding the government, no matter what individual senators and members of Congress would like to turn into a political body and a constitution and all of that, the work of this matter might be better, just from wanting to get the case over their heads. And completely out of the way what man thinks about what things should be, if his aim was one for the highest. The prime minister to set the matter straight I think he could have acted differently and explained to the professionals, the business involved, who are not necessarily just those working in these institutions, why this is a good idea. But, as noted earlier, it is the usual practice. Instructed by all laws and rules and traditions, and common sense, if so, to the point of pushing things hard and in a struggle, as if it were an independent goal to do so to make it most irritating.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u123	Madam President. Yeah, yeah. A senator will be talking about the work at the General and the European Commission. It is also interesting to read the cohesive analysis of the changing cultural founding order that is fundamental to the bill in particular about the need to promote a collective internal culture of the privileged government. I wondered exactly how the service government manifests itself, which puts forth here the bill on the harmony of the institutions, that it seems contrary to the will of those who must cooperate with these institutions, how exactly the servant government is expressed by having no agreement with those who need to work with these institutions, I now do not speak of cross-continent agreements that are naturally very seldom at the General Assembly. Although the slave government is referred to here, I don't think it's easy to distinguish it from this bill and the instruments behind it. I don't know why. A senator has studied the cohesive analysis, which discusses and toss that the Agency's organization can open up an additional unit of activities of other major collections, i.e. Iceland's Museum of Arts and the National Museum of Iceland I wondered what kind of cultural politics would show up here. Is this supposed to be the first step in reducing culture institutions in Iceland? Should we recognize as a nation that we do not even have the authority to run three museums here? That Iceland can't run a museum in Icelandic art? That we simply cannot handle that assignment? Is it intended that all the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania be placed under the National Institutes of England? It is indeed opened up in the fairness analysis. I feel that cultural politics have become quite low in this culture government, which so much chose to call themselves when they introduced themselves to a game on Lake Saturday, that it should just put down all the museums in the country, because it is one of the basic basiss of the cohesion analysis. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: How does he feel about such changes in culturalism in this country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u124	A respectable president. I just have to admit that I haven't had a chance to study the cohesion analysis. But as for that, as a matter of course. A senator asks about, i.e. The culture government or this government that prefers to be seen as such, I think the highest. The prime minister himself wants these matters in order. I firmly believe that he cares about nationalization. However, I don't think that the work he is doing or is often practiced at the General Assembly is best to produce some changes that are in harmony with what must be the common objective of all of us, which is that these matters are not just fine but exemplary. How do you make progress in these matters so that you will have the best results, provided all of us agree that we want to be exemplary in these matters? This is Iceland. We're all going to have the highest, too. Prime Minister, to love these matters very much. I certainly don't want him to have these role models here. But when there are differences in the way the structure is to be done, people with common goals must be able to sit down with stakeholders, professionals, and members, if they are going to do so, and others in the community, trying to reach some conclusion that are not at all confusing. I think it's really strange that there's a disagreement about issues like this when all of us must want to achieve this common goal in the end. That's what I find strange about this subject. What really is the worst part of this situation is that it is at the height. Minister always wants more control. It's his political objective that I'm basically against in this and others. But I don't think that it comes out of the core ill, but it doesn't offer successful results in this group of subjects that everyone should agree on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u125	President. I was thinking about this discussion, and I ask, " What is the source of all of this? ' How is it that the bill is presented as it is? If you follow the sequence of events, you can be traced to a spring voyage in 2013 when men negotiated government witnessing. Then it is negotiated to deliver cultural assignments that can be specifically linked to the word from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Presidency. Why? Because something special is supposed to be done? There's nothing to see. It is true in the government covenant that national projects and such things should be emphasized. However, it is the interests of prime ministers that cause these projects to be taken, and this willingness to take power and decide alone, and it is the main way to bring these bills forward. The home environment bill has been referred to in that context. I wondered: " Is there something we need to turn into the board of directors so that it can't be done? That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u126	A respectable president. I believe there are things to change, especially when it comes to holding. I think the survival of the Allied government needs a lot more rich than the government. I think the public has to be a lot richer. Hv. A senator asks: "What is the source of this? " I can only guess because of my work experience. Minister. As far as I can see, it's a special hobby for the highest. The prime minister, and so he wants to rule this case and lay down those laws. I don't know how to answer the priority in that town. I don't know how to answer it. There's a lot of work in there, like in other places. I also believe that men in general do not question their own authority. People in general feel qualified to have the authority they have. In my opinion, a special setting of various kinds, in the form of laws, regulations, even regulations, and prosecuting is required to exercise power. I think it's the odd number from the highest. The prime minister emphasizes that we have not settled that question here at the high Council well enough or in the community, perhaps studying to the extent that began during the last term and in the territory of the Republic's constitution. I think there's a lot of things to be changed to take over the responsibility of this country in general. We live in some kind of government government government, since it would probably seem that the government has a greater part of the Generals. Why would that be? Why is it certain that the General will establish a law according to the government's will? I don't think it's necessarily the right way, and it's not tradition everywhere. I think the root of the problem is a lot of places, but it's the way we've forgotten over the years to think of questions about authority to end here in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u127	President. I felt that the senator's answers to the question were clear to me. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter that with the suggestions presented here, it might be possible to bring the legislation on this subject to the year 2001, we are returning to the period prior to 2001. Changes were then made in 2011 or 2012, which are not even allowed to appear because it takes longer than having a new system - now 2016. In the government, if I just compare this, I feel like we're going back to 1930. As long as we're reassigning these assignments, the Ministers of Ministers behave as they did 80 years ago or so. Does the senator know how to cope, what can we do to prevent this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u128	A respectable president. If not, it would be an arrangement here in Iceland, i.e. That the top senators in the list of elections may be made in the stock market, I think it would be better to rule. If in a constitution there was a requirement that a small proportion of ideals, 10% or so, could require national pay on individual matters, I think that it would soon be established by governments and politicians in general to do things in first place, in greater agreement with one another, and second in closer consultation with the general public. Now I don't think that this matter would ever be disputed that it would reach such a threshold, and now it would be heard: it is not as if any matter should end in that saying, far from here, it is one thing that would overtake them. But I think such an arrangement would automatically improve the process. I think it would be a tradition that doesn't have much to do here, I'm not never saying, which is that you talk to each other first about how you can improve things so that you can have a good time. It may well be that there is something in these combinations - now I speak in a sense of irresponsibility because this has not been fully treated by a committee - that there is some grammatical argument that we do not see here. Um, for the unity of these institutions. However, we do not necessarily have to discuss this in the context of extending power to the highest level. For example, prime minister. This is all something that we could have discussed in advance, and maybe we could have changed the bill considerably if the country had a general tradition for cooperation. I still think that tradition cannot be established unless it's formal and that the people are granting rule to the General and the General of Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u129	Madam President. I feel that at the beginning of this discussion, I should review what I came to see here briefly in opposition to the fact that we have relatively recent laws on culture. They were approved here at the Council of 2012, if I recall correctly. Then, Iceland's Minja Institutes of Peace began to operate as a joint institution of the State's Archaeological Protection Committee and Homeland Security Committee. The revision in this legislation was based on hard work in reviewing legislation from 2001 when significant changes were made in the country's memory protection and monumental environment. In 2005, that was the case with the highest authority. Education minister to initiate a review of these laws. When I arrived at the Ministry of 2009, I inherited a reexamination. At that time, a professional team that went over the experience returned to Minister 2007, followed by a very extensive consultation with those who work in this environment. The result was a bill adopted at the 140th Parliament along with the National Museum of Iceland, a new set of museums, and the laws on cultural prices to other countries. It is of interest to me, Mrs. President, that in the bill of the year, a chapter on the laws 2001 is found that the decision to develop projects in the region of the late 1900's had had a significant impact on the group, that the workers have become vague by the dissociation of the field environment, etc., but the changes approved in the 2011 and 2013 Laws were not cited in 2001. I find this remarkable, because it certainly discussed the possibility of reassigning and uniting the administrative part and the collection part that results in this bill, in view of the lack of success in carrying out laws since 2001, which have been revised since 2001. It is then said that it is necessary to unite the forces of these institutions and to promote the environment and administration in the topic field and to reunite the extensive work done for years, beginning from 2005 to 2007, followed by the reinstatement of the strand after the collapse of 2009, and to make extensive consultations that ended with these laws, which were greatly discussed here at Congress. So it turned out that three of these bills were approved at one time, but cultural law had to be measured in order to consider General comments. So the General did not work more than three years ago, and above it was completely polarized with the bill. To be honest, I think it's something important. The thought of me, as I read the cohesive analysis I quoted earlier - is likely to be a foundation when the bill is composed - that, in fact, a decision was made when a menial analysis was performed. This is to explain that when the workers of these two institutions have been discussed, the second Agency is extremely negative to the processes involved, it is very obvious and can be read out of the sensitivity analysis. According to the fairness analysis, this is a simple category of memory protection in Iceland from public and other sources, which are expected to be employed by the law, while it is not stated in the fairness analysis that other parties have been discussed or that they have been talked to the general public. I wondered if the public has experienced a very complicated situation in the affairs of the Memorial Guard, whether it is what the prime minister of the country is most concerned about. I can't believe it. At least I haven't met very many people on the streets, expressing their concern over the complexities of the lower - level affairs of protection. But this is the goal, it's to reduce the incomprehensive level of memory protection for the public in the country. But I don't see that the bill is necessarily going to reduce the complexity of the bill, as it has been suggested, by the gatherers and archaeologists, who are groups who worked very hard in the last round of this legal environment and made extensive comments, such as that. Senators are expected to remember well - those here at least - it seems that those who have to work under these laws do not like the suggestions in advance. The Society of archaeologists sent in a review and has sent us a letter protesting strongly to the National Museum of Iceland and Iceland's Minja Institutes of Minjas, that the bill shows that it is urgent, that it has been worked in a series of intensive consultations with professionals, and that it has been stabilised since Iceland's Minja Institute was founded in 2013, but the existing bill is a comeback. I wondered, because it's not answered in the report, what's the highest. Secretary will say about this. Why is it careful not to consider the experience of the 2013 and 2011 laws, the collections and transports of cultural treasures, why are only laws that have fallen from 2001? Then there is a review from the Society of Gathering and Gathering, FIOS, which we members of the Parliament received. It describes the management of Icelandic museums and museums with great concern over the proposed unity of Iceland's Minja Institute and National Museum of Iceland. It describes the need to restrict the research work of the National Museum of Iceland in order to look after the viewpoints of competitive legislation because of unity, of course, the Minja Society has a administrative role when it comes to research and therefore cannot be an independent researcher. The board members do not believe that it is enough for the National Museum to be a center in this National Institute, since this is not a real separation of the European Commission and the Commission. I approached this project, when this was last examined, with no advance reviews on whether these institutions should be alone or two, at least not, but then we received a very strong response from the educational community, from the professional community around these cases, that it would have to be separate, that there would have to be a key explanation for the change in the law and the 2001 revision of the law should not go away from it. I don't think this bill is sufficiently built, either in the fairness analysis or in the comments on the bill. The suitability analysis focuses mainly on financial savings and possible cohesion. I also feel that it is a concern when I read here in the sensitivity analysis - in which all those who experience less entanglement through this union - that it directly says that the Agency's organization can open up an additional unit of projects of other major collections, i.e. Iceland's Museum of Art and the Natural Museum of Iceland. It's not being suggested here. But I ask: If this is the foundation, the analysis done here in any of the months - working on it began in December 2015 - and has not gone into any open communication process as you would like to see; if it is thought that there should be a significant decrease in the number of cultures in this country, it is a macropolitic decision, if it is the policy that has been taken. I'm amazed that a government that has specifically identified itself as a civilization - which, of course, is the culture that we create here in Iceland and is the most important part of our identity - put it into the mind that the plan is to create the one integrated collection and memory agency. That is a big issue with all professional activity in that area. I don't see that it can be a great national interest that we can't even keep out three museums; although one of them is a trust and has been a long trust and a disgrace to all of us as to what they are. I wondered - when I read the bill, because it does not say whether it was discussed with the so - called experts who are advisers for the Minja Institute when it comes to the preservation of houses and archaeology - whether these parties have been discussed. I can't see it. I can't see it out of this report or this analysis. The only people who have been interviewed are the employees of these institutions and the employees of other institutions are completely against it. I don't see that any proper consultations have been made. Right away. A global and educational committee will get the bill to treat it with a huge task, that is, to achieve the advice the Ministry would actually have done. The time passes here quickly, when we discuss these matters, but since then I have been opposed from the beginning because this seminar has been transferred from the Ministry of Education and Culture to the Ministry of Presidency. I don't downplay my personal interest. Prime Ministers and often excellent viewpoints on the preservation of houses and cultural resources. However, I find it more than little strange that this group of languages does not depend on the Ministry of Education and Culture, where there is room to collect in the country and in other cultures. For example, the Icelandic language was left behind in the Ministry of Education and Culture, although it was expected to be a civilization, for example. I had a conversation with the highest. This week's Education and Culture Minister on a World Memorial, and it turns out that that the seminar is kind of out of the question because suddenly there are three departments that need to come up. The Education and Culture Ministry has no formal approach through the National Museum or the Minja Institutes that once were its institutions, so if we are talking about reducing the level of tibia, if we're going to think of how to reduce the complexity of the Minjah protection for the public in the country and other people, as it is said, so pleasant in this analysis, we should consider bringing this sect back under the Education and Culture Department so that it could all be in one place. This would minimise the misunderstanding, except that we do not minimize the expertise in the house - to - house community. Then there's probably the last thing I have time to mention, and that's the proposal here, i.e. Based on the peaceful nature of houses and workers and the detriment of such peace reports, Iceland's Minja Institute of Peace, which has had these projects, is a minister. The role of the Agency is also applicable to the national protection laws. Then we have come to another weird place in this administration of all who have been involved in furthering this professional aspect around the peace-telling of houses, and the Minja Office has become more important in the process, although a minister has been able to confirm it by hand. With the law on the reservations, this initiative was that peace and protection be moved to a minister, and here it is taking greater power in individual peace statements to a minister who, of course, is not always the same minister. I wondered if there is a good political argument, or rational reasoning, that lawsuits and laws would consider such a great deal as to who is in office at one time. I don't think anyone would hide that the jury was transferred because of the highest interest. The prime minister on him, and I wondered whether this proposal, where it was highest. A minister is entrusted with greater authority in the peace description of houses and monuments, not also to this personal interest. Could the General Assembly of the Icelanders be making decisions on this matter? I think this strange administration, Mrs. President, and I make quite a note that it continues in this manner to exercise such authority to minister. I feel that this is really going the wrong way. We, who are supposed to be promoting professional activity, more clear the administrations, are taking care of these good and antiquities, the National Museum, the magnificent museum, and the Minja Institute that has this important administrative position by hand - it is important to promote these seminaries and they have received additional money under the Ministry of Directors, and I have found it fine even though I had wanted to see other museums in the same way. But we certainly should not compromise the goal of professional management to be number one, two and three in these delicate categories. We're supposed to treat these groups with respect. We cannot allow personal interest to govern the legal process here at the council. So I must say, Madam President, I've had my time, that I think there was a considerable lack of consultation, preparation, and clear professional vision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u130	President. I felt that it was noteworthy that the senator's comment on the report was made about the change and the law that came into existence in 2001 and that after much effort, their laws were changed again in 2013. A senator says it's iced over all in the report. I don't think it happened to me sooner, a respectable president, but when I was reading this report, I suddenly began to wonder if I could trust what was in it. Is this what it was like? Usually when you review the history of the matter or like it, you get a good view of things, but it seems like a why. There's a senator here, shooting over the story. You see, that's what you do, so you can't quite trust the background and the report. You don't have the complete vision because the changes that were made in 2013 are polarized. I'm sure they're not sacred, the law that was accepted in 2013, but after studying this case, I think that if it should change the law, they should be put to trust even more in the separation of the administrations and the museums, and even bring these administrative and cultural administrations together, but clearly separate research from administration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u131	Madam President. I think there'd be a reason why. A Senate Committee that treats the case to review legislation from 2011 and 2013, since this report does not. It says on page 18. 9 substantial on the 2001 law. Then, in 2013, it is said that there was a new act of collecting and national protection that was adopted by a new institution, the Minja Institute. That same year a special law on the National Museum of Iceland has gone into effect. After these four lines of the 2011 and 2013 law, it says that the decision to divide and work in the fields of mnemonics at the turn of the century, i.e. The laws of 2001, created many problems, and failed in this bill. It is not much of a work that lasted for years here in this fine report. I also find the report quite remarkable when it is said that there was extensive consultation. There are some material changes in cultural laws that all arise from the wide consultations of stakeholders, which have called for changes in the law needed to sharpen the goals of culture. If this broad consultation has been made in this way, how is it possible that the responses we receive from those who have to work under these laws are all in the same way, i.e. that there was no consultation and that they countered the change? I can't see that there was an extensive consultation, at least. is not made very clear. However, it is said that there were ideas in the board of directors about simplifying the state's institutions and reducing the number of institutions. It is also discussed that there will be a more efficient and larger organization, as I said before, with a lower misunderstanding for the public in the country. [[The president calls.]] But I can't find exactly what comes out of the wide agreement with the stakeholders mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u132	President. Fleur is stated in this report. For example, it is said that the system is being communicated as it is in other parts of the North. True, there is something different in Sweden, and it is specifically mentioned that if this system is accessed, it will be similar to the system in Norway. I have read an article in the papers by Þóra Pétursdóttir's daughter, I believe her name, which actually claims to be wrong. It's not pretty serious, is it? Senator, if we get an article that's kind of true? I'm gonna let me tell you this is a half-time truth. This releases all the influences and changes made in legislation in 2011 and 2013. It's gone. I'd like to say so, and I'd like to see if. The senator can agree with me, that these matters are being resolved again for the 2001 legislation, and none of the progress in the new legislation - the law that will be less likely to go on. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress whether it is somewhat certain that after the next election or after a new government has been created here, this topic group will be reassigned to the Ministry of Education, which needs to begin by winding down the nonsense that has been done in that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u133	Madam President. I believe the changes presented here show that, of course, there were things that might have been done better in my protection class. As far as I'm concerned, for instance, a good deal of the Minjah Institute's guidelines have been worked out by the comments received since the 2013 Law was given. For example, what is missing in the report is an assessment of whether these changes will produce something and are what is needed to respond to the comments that may have been received from the stakeholders, in terms of the report, to the implementation of the Minning Agency on its legal role or whether they have already been responded, e.g. with changed protocols or such. There's something wrong. A panel needs to work hard to look at what is not explained in the report. We do not have an analysis of why precise change is needed in order to achieve the improvement discussed. What I withdraw from this is first of all the manipulative of the government that institutions are to be reduced, and it is not only on the part of this government, it is a measure of passion that it is important to reduce the number of institutions that are not necessarily compatible. That's what I'd like to say. It is certainly presented as a financial gain, and the third question is to give ministers the authority to shape the decision to make peace. Therefore, it is no longer a minister to confirm a period of pacification. Rather, it is the minister and the Ministry that shapes these suggestions. I don't see that it takes any such bill to deal with what is discussed on the license team and in other fields of archeological research. [[The president calls.]] I believe there's a real need to work here to analyze it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u134	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for a very good speech. Hv. A senator spoke with great knowledge about these matters and revealed some of them about the work that was behind the law, both 2011 and 2013, which is very important to keep in mind in this discussion. Hv. A senator pointed out that this is only a three - year legal arrangement. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament, how it feels that this area of the economy affects the institutions and their staff and also uses expertise, including The Ministry of Education. When you're getting out of the Ministry of Education so large a lawsuit, as expected in this bill and putting them under the Ministry of Presidency, you think that the use of human resources and expertise are going to some extent. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator if she has time to determine what a conflict can be expected because management and research will be under the same roof as the status of the National Museum if this bill becomes a law, if it is possible that the days of the National Museum as a research agency will be numbered, whether they already have become credible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u135	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Regarding this bill's contract, it is referred to a control group that was found only three times according to the report. It seems to me that the bill is mainly based on the sensitivity analysis I have cited, which is undoubtedly accomplished by fine people, not by my knowledge experts in the field of monuments. What I'm worried about is that professional knowledge was not the dominant factor in building this bill, it's the reading of the report. I'm sorry, I haven't had as much time to close this case as I would like to, but I have wondered what the administrations proposed by the National Institutes of Social Affairs make suggestions for the Minister of Peace, Remarkations, Commands and Boats - but the whole process of home peace and construction as well as building houses on the behalf of Ministers. Mr. President. Why don't we let the Minister make suggestions on the peacelights of boats and orders as well? Or has the highest. Minister not interested in boats and ships? And what if we receive a prime minister who is deeply interested in boats and ships rather than in homes? So are we going to move it? Are we going to move in to the Minning Institute for Peace, but take the boats to the Ministry? Mr. President. It's every man that there's not a whole bridge in that thought. Hv. A senator brings up the expertise and how we use it, and it seems to me that it has not been new. It seems to me that there's going to be a bit more simple at the number of institutions. It's somehow better. I don't understand it anymore. I think it's a fearful obsession when we talk about it in this way that it saves money and that the building management is really upset.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u136	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Like what? A senator did a fine job in his talk, but I do not consider ministers to be the best. The prime minister takes to heart the issues and sets up basics of his interest field. That can't be good management. It's obvious it's not working. I think it's very special to the highest. The prime minister should present this bill now when there are not many meetings left of this assembly and only one winter after the election. Counts 'em out. Is there any possibility that this bill will become legal? Suppose, then, that the law becomes a law, is it not most likely that it lasts only a year? What are the chances of that? Residents and the Independence Party agree to a vote making such calls on institutions and projects for a year, just for a year, to please the interests of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister? At least I find it difficult to support myself. The members of the Independence Party will. But I'd like to ask why. A senator who he believes is the end of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u137	Mr. President. I have to admit, I have very little insight into a world of thought. Independence party members and forwarding party members. I've met some of them better than others, but it's hard, I'm not going to go through it more closely here, it's something I keep for conversation in the cafeteria. However, I cannot be accurately judged by that close encounter. Councilmen will handle this. I'd like to say, Mr. President, that I think I have to put myself on the rosary again in the case, because I'm so far from reviewing all the questions I think are going to have. The General and Education Committee must review. Hv. A senator asks if this case will end, but I don't think if it's true. A top-of-the-art Board of Education takes over the matter and reviews the argument. I named ships and boats that aren't prepared to describe ships and boats at peace, which I don't know why they're like houses and buildings. They won't be at the Department's hand. I can't believe it's either way. The General and Education Committee proposes to reassign the houses and edifices to the Minja Agency or National Institutes or to transfer the ships and boats to Prime Ministers and to the whole brain of the European Union, if it is a declared object of a fairness analysis, to the simple complaint party of the Memorial Guard in Iceland from a public and other Member States's perspective. Let's watch the public in the country, who wants to dispose of some ship and go to the prime minister or Minjah Institute. But no, it's not in the same place, when you want to secure ship and boats on the other hand, or at peace you can tell them houses and buildings. How exactly does this become for the simplicity of a class of memory protection and to reduce complexity? Mr. President. I don't understand how these goals are achieved, but I don't think it's possible if the next Prime Minister is very interested in crime stories, will he suggest that he transfer literature to the Ministry of Presidency? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u138	A respectable president. I find something remarkable and really strange, let's say, to be discussing this matter today, i.e. bill to legalize the changing of cultural and other laws. This is, in effect, changing six laws under political conditions today and the past few days. Of course, here we should be discussing other matters of prime minister, which he seems less thoughtful, at least he does not want to discuss them publicly but should, of course, do so. The issues directly involved in him and this bill here. Although the bill is practically wrapped around the top. The prime minister and his interests are more important in my view, which we should be having a word about with prime minister when he is here in the house and in a hurry around the Assembly Hall. Of course, it is the subjects that involve his interests in connection with the swellings of old banks and the issues involved that he was preserving money, causing money from the collapse of banks in a foreign tax area, and keeping it a secret for Congress and nation and keeping it a secret from his fellow workers and from the government leader. Under any normal circumstances, it would be a matter of debate as to whether he should be or should go. In all the other communities that we would like to compare ourselves with, there would be a case of this magnitude, which, in my mind, is one of the biggest political issues we have had in this country for a long time, and, however, is for many to take, the reason that at least men should seriously consider their positions, at least informing the General of the Council on their personal affairs and how their interests have been shared with their personal and professional affairs as Ministers. We should be discussing in this public address now and in this conference hall before the full hall of members of the council who should have a positive interest in that arrangement all of us have. V.E.G. Prime Minister does not want to discuss this. I think that the president of the Senate must have walked to the highest level. The prime minister is here to speak the matter, but here he is not, and he is not, in fact, seen not much in this court under his discussion, which is where we sit, rather than discussing this serious matter, which must have a lasting impact on politics in Iceland, not just in the present, but in the future. That's why we're here discussing cultural laws and changes in other such laws. And there are now not many senators in this hall, as do other members of the council. We will discuss this in the afternoon of Friday before the Council leaves for a two - week Passover permit and will see that the President of IIis can handle the natural and fair desire of members of Congress to discuss the political situation in the country. I'm sorry. I find it difficult to control the council, and it seems to me that I have a bad reaction on the part of a prime minister not to attempt to clear the atmosphere and not to attempt to discuss these matters with the council, but to run away. So we should be discussing everything other than what is being discussed here today. Instead, we stand here and discuss interests at the highest. Prime Minister, his personal interests in the Memorial, culture, and memory, i.e. We'll talk about them, he won't talk to us, like the highest. However, the prime minister should, who seems to be breaking off all his ties with the Council, not only by his career as prime minister but also when he does so little to be seen here in the House, he will not discuss matters with members of the council but will dissuade them and then leave the conference and will not participate in the discussions of his own interests. Of course, his interests do not want to be discussed. The objective of this bill is in few words, and in just one sentence, to give authority to prime minister, who is today. This bill is presented as a personal interest. With President's permission, says the main entry of the bill: The topic of the bill suggests that the National Museum of Iceland and the Minja Institute of Iceland will be united in one institution, National Institutes, even though it will continue to exist as a museum and that it will bring about a special law, even if it falls to the new institution. In addition to this proposal, projects related to the peaceful description of houses and workers and to the elimination of such peace descriptions are proposed, as the laws on cultural culture move to Ministers, as well as to the work of Iceland's Minja Agency under national reservations. In short, the whole jury is moving to the minister who serves as prime minister right now and, up to a maximum of one year, not to the Ministry as such, but to him personally, not because he has a high level of education in the seminary or because he has a vast knowledge of the seminary group, at least none of that has happened, or that his skill is in any part of these categories, but only because of the interests of the prime minister. He is interested in making peace with a house, he is interested in governing, and he is in managing it rather than in performing a professional act with such a group of lawsuits. There is no special education behind this person that now holds the office of prime minister and at least no visible knowledge that he has in order to deserve control of such a class, as well as that which is most unsatisfactory on the part of all. To increase the Ministership is completely in opposition to the message that the consequences of the crash sent us into the council and into the community. If we were on another level with this bill at the council, we should go totally the other way, i.e. To remove the minister's authority rather than bring it back to the minister. Not long ago, the prime minister of the Independence Party said that it was his business to reduce the power of members of Congress. He certainly did. He reduced the power of members of Congress. He took them all himself. For a few years, nearly one man took control of the land and ruled it with a harsh hand, with rather sad consequences. The bill covers the primary objective of the bill and then evaluate its effect. Assessments on the impact of the bill are widely considered. There is no indication of its impact. I suppose it is based on the way the text is written that it is the highest. Prime Minister who wrote this on paper. For one thing, it says that if this bill becomes that law, there will be no direct influence on the public in the country. That's where it's at. However, it says that the bill will influence interest stakeholders in many ways. By permission of the President: ▪ What is involved in changes in the institutional system are the changes proposed in the bill to improve the services of stakeholders, end of the cohesion's aim to yield professional benefits, to make a clearer, and to enable a united institution to do better and respond to the changed and increased requirements for the work. Thus, the effect of the unity is positive and does not require looking out or responding specifically to negative or burdensome factors because of the cohesion of stakeholders. I repeat, the effects of harmony are thus positive, and there is no need to look to or react in any particular way. Who makes this assessment on the bill? Who is it that makes this assessment for the bill? At least I can say that there are no reporters, none of those who take this group today agree with what I was reading here. Not one party. None of the people working in these groups, no experts involved in these litigation groups, no staff of the institutions mentioned here agrees. So, what is this food? Who evaluates this bill to have a positive effect on unity, and who does not need to look at or react specifically to negative and burdensome factors? It must be someone who has such a keen interest in getting this into his own hands, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister. No comments. There is no opinion that has been reported from the Member States to any of the things I read about assessments of the effect. On the contrary, three professors at the University of Iceland have sent the highest. The prime minister's letter will end with the statement that there will be a disaster if the bill is accepted. They say that in order for the National Museum to fulfill its role as a Head Museum and a university institution, it must be able to engage in intensive research. They also say, with President's permission: The museum would, in effect, be condemned as a research agency in the field of Icelandic archaeology. That would be a disaster. This bill, it's the highest. The prime minister is a major disaster, assessed by three professors at the University of Iceland. That is really the very essence of all those who evaluate the bill. By permission of the President, the Icelandic museum and the collector will conclude their declaration of those words: In view of this, which is expressed in the letter and is too much to read here - the FIOS scores for the Ministry of Presidency to fail a planned bill to legalize and plan the cooperation of Iceland's Minja Institute and the National Museum of Iceland. Instead, it is used for broad consultations with professionals and instructors on the field of collections, research and monuments in Iceland. The letter shows that there was no consultation with stakeholders. This was being done in some darkbed in secret rooms, probably up in the Ministry of Presidency, which no one knows about. But there's no consultation, no consultation anywhere, despite what comes with a declaration and this bill has been made. it is a product of careful consultation. No consultation has been made. The declaration of the work union of Iceland's Archaeological Institute is the same. It ends with these words, a respectable president: ▪ It has been our hope that these efforts and structure will be eliminated within this important and rapidly growing category of languages will be carried out in harmony and cooperation with professionals. In other words, it's not that easy. There's no teamwork. There's no consultation. That seems to be the case with the highest degree. Prime Minister will be able to work, not to converse with anyone. He's bored with consultation, looks like. He does not seem to have the problem of making peace with anyone. Rather, he presents nearly every issue in a nonsense dispute with all those involved and in a nonsenseing argument. He seems to have the sole objective, you might think, to cause as much trouble, division, and disunity within the strains he is stirring up. So, what are we going to do if it's the highest. After a weekend, would the prime minister become a professional minister? Will they bring with him the minimars? Is this as if money should accompany a patient to a minister's office? What should be done in the Ministry of Presidency if there is someone, hopefully sooner than later, who has no particular interest in monuments like the present prime minister? What are we going to do with this party? Is it to be ousted to him back and forth between hobbies for advice, depending on what is the main interest in the subject? Where is the professional part of this bill? He's nobody. It is the conclusion that all reporters find that and that everyone has declared: There is no professional benefit in part from this matter. The bill is fully at odds with all parties and anyone who is concerned about these matters. The fact that the matter is settled so that it is primarily a prime minister's hobby, not something else, should be enough to make the matter unconventional. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. The senator did well over it, as others have done here today, how unwise it is to call matters and institutions between recruitment by minister's interests. Hv. A senator also noted that there is not much left of the election period, at most over a year, and there is no chance that the next prime minister would be interested in having these matters in the Ministry of Prime Ministry. At least it's my assessment of the situation as it is. The argument for change is among other things professional. A bill report shows that the savings would be about 47 million. K. every year. But that savings will not take place for the first year, and it may be some cost of moving until the next year. As a result, financial benefits are gone, at least in my opinion, because I don't think this will last longer than one year. I want to ask you why. A senator will feel how he feels about this and about the costs of united institutions as shown by the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u140	A respectable president. I did a little bit over the time how stupid it is to move institutions into the administrative system because of the interest of a temporary minister who sits in office, I don't talk about it when it's at the maximum of a year until the highest level. Minister, prime minister in this case, leaves the Ministry, and hopefully before that. Where, then, are we? If the General will agree to agree that there will be a drive here through the council to transfer an agency to the Ministry that may already be accepted by the law, then the jury will suddenly have no interest in the Ministry and will be sent elsewhere, there will be another minister to find him a place. I'm in favor of the institutions. I worked together to establish these institutions in my last term. I mention a Grouping Agency, which was composed of three other institutions, traffic offices, Navigator Institutes, and Vega. We took our time. If I recall correctly, the debate took over at the council about three years. It was two and a half to three years that we talked about this here, on committees, at the council, we pondered it back and forth. We checked every party, staff, professional. There was a thorough calculation of professional effects and economic effects. Is anyone talking about today's failure? No, that went well. I'll mention my institutions like accidents to labs. It took as long, much smaller institutions, disability institutions. It worked out fine. Is anyone talking about it now to go back? No, because the work was well prepared, we took the discussion with all the stakeholders and got it done. 47 million. K. In view of this, savings is a financial advantage. Prime Minister. I would have liked to see the cost estimates from the Ministry of finance lively and fun, as we used to get here for a while. [[The president calls.]] I'm fully convinced that the staff of the Ministry of finance had not reached this conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. He mentioned this at the beginning of his talk to the highest. The prime minister should be discussing with us other matters that are relevant today, involving him and his family. But let it be. V.E.G. A government is extremely helpless, and perhaps we can rejoice in it, but it is not doing a foolish thing in the meantime. But at least 20 years must be spent back in order to find fewer predestination projections submitted to a council like this. Then this bill comes in. I just want to ask you which one. A senator will see how he feels about his priorities in the highest. A government when it comes to First Amendment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u142	A respectable president. Yes, I believe, and I reviewed earlier, that we should be discussing other issues here at the council today, or another matter, because of the serious political situation in Iceland that has come to the highest level. Prime Minister straight. I do not yet understand the decision of the Generals to refuse the reasonable and natural request to discuss such matters. I can't help it. I also don't understand the priorities of the government on legislatures that enter this council. It seems to me that the government has become the unsatisfactory and the mindlessness that it has begun to dive into personal interests. Maybe a government meeting is about this today. What interests do you have? What do you want? I'll take the minibars, not the boats. I don't want them. They're boring. Who's gonna take on the boats? Has it not been investigated, proper president, whether anyone has a particular interest in the peace of ships and boats? [[The president calls.]] Maybe on the West, there's a lot of old boats there. The boats obviously don't fit within the field of interest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u143	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I must agree with him that if it had been the best, it would have been good. The prime minister would have wanted to discuss the financial issues related to his family and are in distress because he does not want to discuss them with the standards adopted here yesterday. I would have chosen, but we can't help it. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. I think it's all at the same well, a respectable president. There is a prime minister who must have made a requirement when making a contract for government witnessing, to get a hobby into his Ministry, and then to put up a bill that means himself, and he doesn't think he has to give it to the council. He writes long articles and shows on the Internet or on websites, but he does not have to give it up to the council. However, he can assign the council to change the law in order to fulfill his wishes and desires. I feel like everything's coming to the same well. I feel that people may not fully understand that they are to be humble toward authority and not arrogant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u144	President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir By-product Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, whom I've mentioned before. I believe that no matter where we are in politics, all of us must believe that there is a serious situation in Icelandic politics. In fact, the prime minister of Iceland has been found to get money out of the country just before a crash, just before a currency head, and in the real media; he has escaped the crown he has since tried to convince the rest of us that he is the best currency in the world, while he has brought his money or his pound in the word in the absolute sense in the tax industry. That's a serious thing. This he has kept secret to the council, to the nation, to his communicators. The situation in Icelandic politics has developed that I think that the oldest of men will not be the same, that's a serious matter. In that light, it is almost like a joke to discuss the interests of the prime minister who seems to have no political ideals. Because he wants to pursue his interests, he is primarily a hobby businessman. Where are the political ideals? Where's the politics in the bill? What is this politics? Not a trace of thought in the bill, there's no one who recommends it. No person outside or inside the council except the Independence Party, this is his responsibility. This bill wouldn't be here unless the Independence Party had brought this nonsense up here. All political groups and members of Congress would have stopped the matter. Absolutely. That's why it's not supposed to be here. It's an arrogant bill. It has nothing to do with politics, it has to do with the interests of a certain person, and in my opinion, it should at least consider whether it was a judicial event. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u145	A respectable president. I have always wondered what we were doing here at the council, as well as the public opinion and the media werelittled when the decision was made to bring these matters to the Ministry. For myself, this is typical of men who come to power and think that they are above the rules we have set for ourselves. Of course it is not forbidden to do this, but the fact that things are not forbidden does not mean that you can do them or do them. A respectable president. I have always been amazed that people have not noticed more than they have seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u146	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll agree with what. A senator again. Over the past few losses and years, there has been a negative violation between Congress and government between the legislature and the European Commission, i.e., in a negative way. not like we'd wanted to see it. That is because the government ministers repeatedly ignore the council, repetitively pass the council in various ways, employ the Minister's office as they possibly can to avoid bringing affairs into the Senate chamber. Let's name personalization on the health care unit. Let us mention the limitation of schooling for a certain age. It was not submitted to the council, the Ministers of Ministers. This is what happens when a person puts himself above the projects he has taken and was assigned by the voters to work. It never results in good.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u147	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir I'm going to deliver my speech to Björn Gíslason Gíslús, and I'm going to give it to him. A senator who speaks a lot about the lack of consultation or simply asserts that there is no consultation. We're on 1st. and I'm writing through this bill and this report. I'm going to slide down to the other side. 16 with President's permission, which says: In relation to the bill's contract, Capacent's advisers worked with the Ministry to develop a request for a poll [...] As a result, it says: To this end, conferences with stakeholders on optional and financial analysis were held, interviews were taken with the workers of the institutions, and some suggestions for cohesion were discussed at the board meetings. I'll continue my report. On the bottom of the list. 16 says: ▪ Their progress in progress was well discussed in a comprehensive discussion of what is being done. Many stakeholders were thus consulted and presented with ideas and suggestions for changing the laws on culture at the Ministry in the past winter. In itself, I have no grounds other than this when I review the bill and the report and the individual legal articles in 1st. I have great respect for the role of the institutions we address, both National Museums and the Minning Institutes, and the proposals to lead to financial and professional benefits. I don't really know what the question is. I think it's a lot of work to say, like a whale. The senator made that no consultation was made, considering what is shown in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I argued that this bill had not been consulted. It can be said in another way and said that none of the information that came out of the small consultations had been heard. I refer to it and indicate that when the bill was submitted, it was said to be a product of consultation and to be done in consultation with a particular party. They came from the mountains. They had no idea. They hadn't seen the bill. They had to send e - mails to the Presidency Department to get the bill sent. It was no more than that. I refer to a letter from the archeological Society that says that they were called to a meeting in Capacent, who was holding the matter in place of the Ministry of Presidency, where this matter was discussed. Many people came from the article and sector. The meeting point was a) to make some changes in the case category, b) should be provided for minor changes in tasks, transfers, or increased cooperation between institutions, or c) in agreeing these institutions. The result is this, by permission of the President: ▪ Everyone present agreed that Iceland's Minning Agency unity and National Museums would be a bad idea. It wasn't some, not half, not nine out of ten, but all, each agreed that the harmony was a bad idea. Still, the bill is submitted. That's why I'm doing what I said, so I'm moving on. And that is shown in other comments, as I read earlier, to form in the review of the Society's collections and collectors, which specifically says that the bill is under attack on significant changes in short periods of time and does not consult with stakeholders. [[The president calls.]] It is very easy to reason on this, especially when people come off the mountains when the bill is proposed and the stakeholders have no idea of it, even though others have been claimed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u149	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason answered. I understand that not everyone is happy, as you would like to be, and nothing unusual about it when you're going into such a process of change. I guess that's what it is. A senator meant that not everyone was satisfied with the advice being given. It will most likely be reduced during the treatment of Congress. But there is no way to say that there was no consultation. I'll say the word with what. How important it is when we have important institutions that we have a great deal of respect for and their role that our discussion is as extensive as possible and that as many as have knowledge and those involved in it are allowed to have something to say. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have a lot of faith in that. The General and Education Committee will call for such professional comments, and we can proceed with the matter at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u150	President. I agree with the last word. A senator, a man hopes to be called for favors and to listen to them. However, it has already been quoted from the opinion of all those who have said something about this bill, have had something to say. They all oppose it. All of them. No one recommends it. At the meeting I quoted, which was held on the side of Capacent, it was found that all the people were lying against the bill. All those who were found, and these were no siders, against the bill. Then you ask, "Why is there a bill like that? " What is the basis for this? There's only one left in it, and that's the personal interest of the individual minister of that matter, no matter what professional reasoning and debates may arise. As a result, I fear that if this matter is discussed in committees, it will be considered by the clients as well as until now, there will be nothing done about it. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u151	A respectable president. It is clear that 1 Cor. of this matter is not nearly finished, and even members of Congress who have finished their first talk have requested to return to the rosary to appreciate their decision to make a more difficult case by the Ministry of Ministers, including the Ministry of Ministers. Yeah. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir, former minister of education and culture, who knows the matter in the skin. As a result, I ask a president how long he intends to continue this meeting. The fact is, there is no such warrant for a late meeting, so we must be providing for the end of this meeting, and there is still a considerable number left. As far as I can see, it must be an excellent time point now to let this meeting work for today, especially because the prime minister does not seem to intend to see his worth in having a place of words for many reasons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u152	It was hoped that at this meeting there could also be a reason. 11th. Smoke. n., Valla Bjarnadóttir, and what. 6th. South, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, two of the next senators on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u153	Mr. President. I don't know what to say. I don't know what to say with what. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, head of Congress, left-green. Now we are on the last day before the Passover break, and it is quite clear that the discussion of this matter is not over. Not before, I'm happy to deliver my speech here, but I suggest to the president that he's getting a good name by 7 p.m. Then, after the break of the Passover, we will be able to pick up the thread completely. So I suggest that the President say good things now and that we can go home by 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u154	The president is well aware that this discussion will not be over here tonight, so we will expect to address that discussion after the Council's Passover break. However, there is still hope for a president to see two of the next few. Councilmen who are on the rosary can speak here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u155	A respectable president. I thank the President for wanting to give me the opportunity to deliver my speech here today, but it's clear that my student record will not be completed. It's almost seven o'clock and it's not just about me one or the other. paritaprevir The Oddný Harðardóttir Daughter is here a number of people who need to be at work while we're still in charge. It's Friday. I shall gladly postpone my speech by two weeks or more so that one of the members of the council can go home and not have to stay until eight o'clock to listen to us. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u156	Mr. President. The president has said that he will continue his conference and that it is likely that the person we are here will be able to make it to the rosary. Of course, the President is in charge here, and I can only say that I wish to the highest. As I give my talk, the prime minister sits in the hall. I don't think he's been here all day. He may have been sitting somewhere on a screen in the house, what do I know, but I wish that, Mr. President, to the highest. Prime Minister sits in the hall, listens to my speech, answers me, and answers my questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u157	These wishes will be expressed. The president wants to be right about what he intends to do if he is able to discuss at any other level. The senator will be our last speech tonight, talk about it. 6th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u158	A respectable president. It can't be said that the council was a giant over the last few days. The foregoing issues have not directly increased the respect of the council. Still, we would be in that situation. The prime minister is not coming to the Hall, either to discuss the matter that the council wants to discuss with him or the issues he claims to want to discuss with the council. V.E.G. A minister here gives a bill that he then gives, not to be discussed with the council, but to a sneaker somewhere below and in a tunnel. I propose to the highest. For the president to use this opportunity right now to send the council home, so it goes out fairly quietly on Friday night before Easter. I have a suspicion and I can imagine that it will be enough to discuss when a council meets after Easter and that there will be something completely different than memory issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u159	A respectable president. I'd like to let myself say the same thing. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter when she asks for the highest will. The prime minister has so little to sit here and share in this great discussion. We're not supposed to get used to this, Mr. Honorable President, and we're not supposed to pretend it's normal. Although these behaviors of the minister have been brought upon us all this ideal period, we should not get used to this behavior and should not let it pass over us. We are required to make a requirement for a minister of the matter to be held at the Assembly Hall during the discussion. We're supposed to have a requirement, and we're going to make it now, since President is going to stress being here with more talks when it's 7: 00 p.m. for Easter. This is entirely absurd when the discussion is not over and describes only a lack of effort to maintain good relations in the council. [[The president calls.]] My report is clear, that Prime Minister is coming here and participating in these conversations. I'd like the President to use a lot of weight to call the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u160	A respectable president. If the president feels that my offer is small enough to postpone my speech for over two weeks, I'll sound like my ledge, or else. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir, to make a claim to the highest power. Ministers give ear to my words, and shall be in the chamber. Maybe he has some comments to some of the things I'm gonna say. I wish to see in the front of the minister the last hour we are in our house because he has not shown himself since just after he finished his talk here earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u161	The president has previously reported that these messages have been presented. Prime Minister has every option to hear speeches. Senators. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. The prime minister is in the house and the highest. A prime minister must decide when to address this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u162	President. First of all, I must be amazed at the way a minister is not present at this discussion. He may be in a councilroom or elsewhere in the area, but he is not here, he is not visible. It is absolutely true that we are not to accept this attitude. Prime Minister to us senators and our work here. He is totally disrespectful - just saying things as they are, a respectable president. What we say here matters to us, to us in general, and usually to what we have here. We're not doing this for fun to get the best of it. The prime minister so that he will have to hide in the house. We're here to talk to him about the bill he's offering. This is not really a present, respectable president. I must say it. To focus on the subject of the day, which is about a change in the law of the Memorial Institutes, I believe it is due to the bill for the 2013 summer tour when it was agreed on a government community service here. Therefore, it is not the prime minister alone who is responsible for the bill, that is, the whole government. I did not lose it, Mr. Honorable President, that it has been left to the Ministry of Education and Prime Minister, in the negotiations over this government, to bring matters that weigh heavily in our culture to the Ministry of Education after the quirks of Prime Ministers. And to think that there could be a deal with government formation that a minister's interests can be transferred, in this case Prime Minister, to the Ministry of Presidency. I don't think anyone would believe you if you were to tell anyone about this, people won't believe you if you say that, i.e. people who don't know the standard around here. It's an endemity and a show of power, I think I must say, of the worst sort; to think that it's natural to compromise advice. What about all the people working on these things? Yeah, yeah, just give it a ride, too. Then I understand that many people have not been able to distinguish between the various cultural factors of the world from all of this. It's a problem for all of us. All of these will be reassigned to the Ministry of Education when the government operates, and I hope that those involved in the Board of Directors will have authority to handle matters with the Presidential decision not intended to follow the quirks of individual men or women, but only if that is the case, if it is appropriate to resolve a matter, and if it is appropriate at any time to bring a case together. Certainly it is this way at the Council of Government, a respectable president, that there is a separation between ministers and advisers, and sometimes it seems that talking is difficult. This was illustrated, for example, in the length of time for projects that had been heard and changed by a defense agency. There is a definite separation in the Board of Directors, so it may well be convenient for a person to compromise counsel for professional reasons. But doing such things after the whims of the individual, that is nothing more than scandal. Then there's a bill where all of a sudden there's a whimpering impulse to change the institutional system set up here. This was shown in talks earlier today, and especially was the case. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter well told me that the report - when I was reading this report over them, I thought: " I don't think I've ever read a paper with a law bill before because I've begun to doubt what it says. I thought, " Can't I trust this report? ' This is because something in this series is not true but because it is half true. This is shown best in the way of skates, such as oscillating. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir put it, the changes made in the law in 2011 and 2013, and now act as if laws were being adjusted by 2001. In effect, though, legislation is being restored to 2000 and will eliminate the laws made in 2013. Instead of continuing on in the course of separating government and research, it is being united again. If you want to unite more in this sector, you might think, i.e. If civilization had not been transferred to the Ministry of Presidency to unite the administration of various cultures more than it is today. Ranni's office has already united the oversight of certain funds at Ranni's in different cultures. Perhaps you could do it even more, uniting the administration. What should the management board do? The management board is to observe procedures, that things are done correctly, and so forth. The same procedure regarding the changing cultural factors, such as literature and art and art fund, is to be used there. The same administrative procedures can be used there but leave the professional part behind in the professional institutions. That's not done on the bill. The report then shows that the preparation in Norway is being followed. That's not right, Mr. Honorable President. An article by Þóra Pétursdóttir, a doctor in archeology who works in Norway, says: Achieving policy in memory protection and research as proposed in the existing bill is important. However, a paper with the bill shows that its role model is included. Draw Close to Jehovah, the God of Peace, and the God of Peace! She continues: It will be strange in view of the fact that the Norwegian system is based on the precise separating of administrations and research - a much clearer and more intensive cooperation between the areas. Not even a proper, respectable president, said to be in Norway. You are amazed at how this matter is presented. Some have mentioned Article 11. in the bill, which illustrates the fact that laws are being built around the minister's interests. In 1 1. is, by permission of the president: ▪ National Institutes of Social Affairs offer proposals for peace descriptions and learning about archaeology, ships, and boats. A minister makes a decision on the peace light... ~ Then it says: ▪ A secretary makes a decision on the matter of peace and learning about buildings and monuments as well as building houses. He can assign the National Institute for Proposition... - But he's gonna do it himself. I spoke it over with the highest. Secretary of counter-election today. Then he had to stay in the hall, for he had given a talk and had to answer his own speech. Then he said that it might be a good idea to take the boats and the ships too. A respectable president. This shows the minister's disrespect for the project; he views it as if it were his personal work and is of little concern to the rest of us. It's clear to me that there's a lot of work to be done for the General and Education Committee to process the bill. It appears everywhere that there is a reference to - it may well be that it is listed into some institutions that have been consulted, but in all the letters being received, in all the articles that are written and in the conversations that you have with people who know about in this sector, it is seen that no one I have ever heard had a consultation with him or her. Thus, none of those who know or come to affairs in this sector of bill are recommended. That's just the way it is, a respectable president. But I'm not going to have any more words about this right now, maybe I'll keep my second speech when the matter gets back on schedule after Easter. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u163	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I stopped mainly at what was said at the time. A senator who in part makes similar remarks that came up at the state of Congress. The minister of the Development Organization when we became aware that the report was not entirely professional. It was a center of honor that no one has seen to have done but did well, innuendo that was clearly designed to support political or political conclusions made by the minister. I think it's a lot of concern if it's what we're supposed to do, to see over and over in the Senate or in the board of directors that come out here and go through all this filter, i.e. Through the Ministry, by the government, by the review of the Ministry of Presidency, by the House of Congress, and then by the House of Congress, and then by Congress. And the integrity - keeping members of the council are stuck with it, even being fully justified in believing that the report on the case is so that you cannot trust it. I think that's a serious matter. I want to pray. A member of the Parliament gives the examples that she feels are the most clear of these facts: Here are aspects of the report in which the issue is not entirely correct. Half-truth was a word. A senator used. It has been observed here that the last legal adjustment in the seminary is being passed. However, it is also very clearly stated that this is the subject of significant consultations when it becomes clear that none of the cited ones in the talk section counts and is ready to go in front of them and that the discussion was real. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u164	A respectable president. I think I put it that way. It's kind of the truth. I think I said it too, so it was a feeling I got when I read the bill. I'm not entirely confident with myself to point out the point, saying, "It's not right, and it's not right. But as for the background, in comments to the bill, by permission of the president, ▪ In 2013, new laws on gathering and national protection were adopted. A new institution...[6] Then it adds on page 18. 10: ▪ Sama also took up a special law on the National Museum of Iceland, where it served as a cultural Head Museum. Then goes on to say: At the turn of the century, the decision to dissociate projects in the area of the Memorial, with the related separation of public activity and private business had a significant impact on the group. The development of the populations was unclear by the dissociation of the trade environment. But that was at the turn of the century. Then came the 2013 Law. What, then, was changed? Then they were uniting it. You think and say, "Wait a minute, is this right? It's the feeling that's not good. The North countries are then spoken of as follows: In Norway, archaeological research is carried out on the hands of universities and the NIKU for the authority of an official national guard... This implies that it's the same thing as they're being introduced here. Then I read from an article published by a doctor in an archaeology who works in Norway, where it says: "That is where the separation of research projects and administration is high. [[The president calls.]] She talks about cooperation, but not unity, which is two different things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u165	President. Thank you. At the same time, a senator makes a comment about my clock. Hv. A senator cites several examples as well as his feelings for the matter. I wondered, " What does that mean? ' A senator, as well as a general discussion in the community, how strong or weak our recruitment board is. You wonder how protected we are from confusion, i.e. If there's a minister with some idea and some bullshit ideas, is it so that it's the scheme to dress the nerd in a primeer's costume? Is that how we are here with a particular development in European legislation about separating government from government by the government? It's all in place, and what happened with the current cultural law, where the main objective was to increase efficiency and simple administration, etc. We have relatively new laws on this subject. Then we get shit. There's a minister coming into the Ministry, who's got something on the pervert. So we are in the Icelandic Board of Directors that there is no light, that it does not activate anything that says: No, it is not acceptable, it is not a government that thinks it is admissible and that the legislatative authority is about bringing a minister who has something to do with the bulb and it's a job of government officials to wrap the messancy in the bill suit and put the legislature in the position of making the delta a law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u166	A respectable president. I really hope that our government system is in a position to attempt a minister if they or they are going to go into some bullshit. On the other hand, I could well believe that in some cases it doesn't matter much to the minister, and he or she says, "I'm gonna have it like this, and you're gonna do it, so do it. Because of what? A member of the United States named Development Cooperation Organization, I think, is somewhat different because, in that case, it was naturally known that State Department officials were very interested in that union. I think it will explain a little bit the intensity of the Minister there. But I let myself think out loud if it is possible that the prime minister may have been tried, but he wanted it to be this way. I believe a man to what's going to be prime minister, and I'm thinking of moving his hobby between schemes, saying to the department's employees, "Just do this bill, I'll tell you! I like it like this. Why should this not be the case when it comes to handling matters of the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u167	A respectable president. Comments with the bill say, on permission of the president: On November 27, 2015, the minister appointed a board member who was assigned to reorganize Iceland's Minjas Institute and National Museum of Iceland. The Ministry of Presidency announced on their website on February 22, i.e. Less than three months later - and inside it is Christmas holiday, which takes a total of about two months, there are four, five weeks of work behind - that the above - mentioned control group has produced a bill about the unity of these two institutions in the National Institute. I'm asking why. A senator would consider that four or five weeks of work, from November 27 to 22 February, would be sufficient to create such a case for conjugal treatment, which is said to be a unit of two strains. Not to mention that it seems out of place has been followed by the bill because the Minja Institute sent out a statement following the announcement on February 22 that the statement made in the press release, that the bill had been worked in consultation with the Minja Institute, was wrong. [[The president calls.]] What does that count? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u168	A respectable president. You see, it is. The comments on the bill and the report are a little confusing. A control group was appointed in November, and we know it naturally, both me and the other. A senator, we are older than two winters, that it is a short time to make a bill. I don't think that's possible, but the agreement won't be much, and usually the management is not working so fast unless you have a very unusual situation. But I saw that on page 6. 13 notes: The Aggressors called attention to the control group's need for increased coordination in the memory protection and monumental functions. I didn't quite figure it out. Is this the crew appointed in November, or is this the first group appointed in 2013 to take over the entire administration? I can't figure it out. There are a lot of these things that are confusing. I asked the highest. A minister of what interests these would have been to draw his attention or the control group on this. [[The president calls.]] He said they talked to Capacent. [[The president calls.]] I think we should have a word with Capacent, since the prime minister doesn't want to come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u169	A respectable president. I have no doubt that a legal bill can be created during November 27, one year to the next February 22th. But this is no ordinary bill. These are the changes to six layers with four additional preliminary rules. These are perhaps seven weeks of work, if there's no holiday in there. Given the fact that those who ordered the control group were completely broke up in this matter -- and this is the same control group who state that they were assigned to reorganize Minja Institute's work. Then, according to the news release, a prime minister's control group on reorganization of the Minning Institute has produced a bill. It turned out to be a lie. It wasn't up to. That was totally wrong. Following this press release on the Ministry of Presidency Web, the Minja Office is forced to make a announcement, rejecting the claims of prime minister that the bill is by the Minja Agency or by this service group. It is being run through with this fast bill of this kind that is then reported to be working together with the person who says it's wrong, that was no consultation. In fact, because they had not seen what they were then taught, they had to send an e - mail to the Ministry of Presidency and ask them to send them the bill. What does that count? A senator with such a bill in mind? [[The president calls.]] What is the goal of such a bill? [[The president calls.]] Is he offering a professional bill in some form of conversation? [[The president calls.]] They intend to drive it through with good or evil, true or unproved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-18-91.u170	A respectable president. It's not good to say. It's quite clear that this is not a procedure for the procedures and procedures that should be carried out, and I don't think the procedure will meet the quality standards that have been developed. I think it's safe to say. I think it's my own wish, and it's a figment, and the prime minister's whims, I think that that's what's in charge. It's a good thing it's coming here. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson has mentioned several times today the law on the reservations. That case was the same as this one. There were some whims of the prime minister. We're in smaller pieces. We can't help it. We're trying to talk, and we're trying to ask questions, but the guy who carries the bill is hiding somewhere. He's playing hide-and-seek in the house so that we can't see him and let alone answer some of our questions. Now we just have to rely on the more part of the council. We must be confident that the independents will not allow themselves to be swept into the past beyond what has become available to them. I just wish that people can see what they're doing.
