ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u1	V.E.G. President. In the political turmoil of past days, it is often good to search the foundation and ask basic questions. What is most important to us? I can answer that question so that people have a job and a roof over their heads. Of course, this is not so simple, but it is theoretically accepted that the simplicity is often good. Then I find it beneficial to reflect on the contrast between the constantness and the importance of change. The fact is that this is a significant economic stability for the entire terms of terms with improved interest in a number of fields and that employment situation is at best where the record of unemployment last March under the Habitat was 2.7% and has continued to decline. More and more have jobs and employment opportunities. What is so pleasant is that all parts of the country have shown a reduced number of job jobs. I don't think that Congress elections necessarily lose stability, they're all equal every four years, but there's a chance that we'll get caught up in the race. Perhaps the best example of this is the campaign we know in history. The stability is not automatic, and it has been very successful in this regard. Most important, we continue to work on improving the tools and tools that can continue to ensure economic stability. We will continue to add here the development of the money policy, win a responsible national financial programme that makes budgets and let these two economy machines work together. The labour market must follow up in rhythms with pay development and increases in the rhythm of the production and performance of the economy at any given time. A respectable president. Changes in the form of evolution are the preferred developments, but stability is essential for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u2	Mr. President. I submitted a written inquiry to the highest degree. Health Minister to see if the requirement for all special health care facilities would be met without the pay of the management, such as the highest level. A health minister has announced that there will be three new stations that he has decided to offer to his private battles. A written answer at the highest. A health minister arrived, a busy man, standing simply by permission of a president: There will be a demand for all such individuals and public health care centers in the capital area. It's a stuck-up answer, and I would have chosen to the highest. A minister would have been willing to answer this week to explain. I don't get any better sense from my answer than to the highest. A health minister would expect to take up money from the private health centres that are already operating in the capital area. According to a recent report on these matters, it is reported that from around the Sala Centers'business, 194 million were paid for interest in 20083/42/2014 and that from the private clinic at the Low manna has been paid 122 million in 20023/42011. V.E.G. A health minister has chosen in his reply not to go into the matter, but he simply says that all requirements for public and special health care are the same. I view it as a matter of fact, though I have felt that the answer was small and that it was reason to make a comment when ministers respond in such a way that it takes a literary scholar, at least, to read out the exact answers, to the highest degree. A minister intended that other private health care centers be forbidden. There is much political news in this answer. If it's not meant to be. A minister may give him a suggestion to answer the questions raised to him in the council in a clear and decisive way. [[The president calls.]] There's a possibility that if this is the correct understanding of the answer, it's the best. Ministers are the major political news, which I think is reason to discuss and whether it is not a reason to change, and it will be forbidden to pay interest from public health care. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can't wait till I get to the top. A minister will be answered next so that he can explain exactly what he means in this answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u3	V.E.G. President. Iceland and I boast that there's more equality here than there is in most other places, and then I'm talking about equality between the sexes. We boast that the status of women is better than in Iceland. It is true that when you attend international conferences, such as the United Nations conference on women's affairs, you see that we have certainly reached and are very close. However, there are two news reports that have been heard in Iceland during the past few weeks, first of all, that the number of domestic violence that came to the police in the capital area was more than doubled between 2014 and 2015. Two domestic violences come to the attention of police every day. The other news is that there is an increase in sexual abuse and the number of reported cases. A number of sexual crimes at the Gangs have increased between the last two years, but of the 468 cases involved, only 41 have been reported. Certainly, both are very hard. In fact, I believe at the General Assembly there is still a transnational issue of dealing with domestic violence. It would be good luck to put it through the Council at the time we have a bearing. In addition, I think a change of mind is needed in society, especially among men, in these matters. In the vast majority of these cases, men are bacteria. It must be sent a message into this group that such conduct toward women will not pass away and will not be tolerated. [[The president calls.]] We need to work hard to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u4	A respectable president. I would like to be prepared for the council to discuss the National Park on the Capitol, which is about culture and nature protection on the UNESCO World Memorial. We have felt that it was proper to strike down trees planted in the park because they were not connected to its origin or to what was in the region in the first place. On the other hand, we have found it acceptable to enter the park's national park, which has nothing to do with culture or protection. That's where I refer to the diving companies of Silfra. Not long ago, Jónas Haraldsson wrote a fine article in one of the newspapers where he discussed this assignment, the contractors in Silfra, who offer scuba diving in the nature bulb of Silafra, and whether it harmonized with what the national park is in terms of culture, and nature protection when he gets to the UNESCO World Memorial. So I'd like to direct the senators of all the kindness listed on the National Park to see if this would fit into a national park that is on a world list for cultural and natural protection and if not, to make changes there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u5	A respectable president. This day could be the least of a black day in the history of Smokeytown. The town council will probably meet at the same time. 17 today, a white towel is hung up and wishes to be controlled by a financial department member. This is what happens, despite the fact that the last two governments of Iceland have promised support for the extension building in Helga, as has been done in other comparable places. The most intimate example is Húsavík. Today, at most, the fields are still standing. A year ago, a further advance to Húsavík was driven to Húsavík to 2 billion because of the roadmaker's misprogrammation of the docks. During the next few days, a bill for the construction of a new Western island vector will be presented to 5 billion, and it will probably be run through the council in a few days. I wondered about our promises, six senators and two ministers, who have promised the inhabitants of Smokeynestown that we would come to help. I'm sorry when I hear senators talking about being doing some cross-cutting in Smokey Town on this serious matter. I think we need to ask the citizens of Smokeytown to treat them with dignity, with the inadequacy and inadequacy of our members to assist them. The people of Smokejanestown deserve anything but this on our part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u6	A respectable president. I believe that there is good reason to draw attention to the results of project managers on a frame plan, which will be presented in project management proposals that are now being introduced and covered in national meetings. What brings my greatest attention to these findings is the Commission's suggestions for bringing activation options in lower part of During the Year and the Newcomer's Scorpio. I asked the chairman of a project manager, in the presentation of this, if any new information had occurred since then. This was discussed by a professional health committee. He said not to be. This would have been considered no further, and this would have been the conclusion of the committee. This should interest us in the treatment of the cases that took place here at the council, as blameless and unboyable as it was, when we were here discussing these three initiatives. The consequences of their national preparation, a dignified president, show that we cannot continue this vital work in the construction and development of the country. One of the most interesting projects in energy - related industry, in the wind, is a solar plant that has become a ignominious plant with great value. It has been observed from her opponents that they are now checking Norway's proposals and even from other northern countries because national activation cannot make an electrical agreement with the currently missing 40 megawatts. I consider the great senator's responsibility in this matter, and especially the responsibility of the senators. If one person is down, the council has the potential to turn this thing into a past spring, disappear from the inconsistency and unboyable treatment that was in place here and accept this obvious activation option so that land activation and other energy companies, and those who want to build up on the basis of it, can continue their work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u7	A respectable president. Presidential elections are approaching, and I would like to remind you of a matter that we in a short future have proposed that will change the setting of the election so that the one elected by the President must have a greater part of the trap behind him. This means that either two rounds are needed, so two of the top ones are going in the second pass, and one is chosen between them, or you can use a procedure suggested by the Board of Directors to be used in Ireland, which is just one pass, but it's some kind of preselection, you put a number to the executives you like best. This method ensures the same as the others, where there are two votes to the best use for the votes, i.e. The president cannot work with perhaps 20% votes as he might be. I'm concerned that the council hasn't changed that long. The constitution needs to be changed. In fact, we are just one of the few countries in which the president or national leader is elected in this way. We know that in France, for example, there are two rounds. I hope that the situation that exists right now will lead to this. Another factor we would also need to consider is that no time limit should be set on a president's seat, as is done in the United States, where the president may not sit for more than eight years. I feel that it really needs to be examined and given a reason for it right now. Only the 63 senators who sit here every once in a while will do so. Another case I was trying to contribute at some point was that when the president's Chiefs were abroad, they would not receive the President's reward. [[The president calls.]] Thus, it could not be stopped because it is tied in a constitution. [[The president calls.]] I think this shows the importance of being in the Constitution, especially in the Presidential Times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u8	A respectable president. Since it's signed for the first time that the Wintris language and Panama documents came up, I'd like to make the situation in the community a subject. As we all know, there is a very unusual situation in Icelandic society at this time. We live in that the council is hardly functioning, almost by no means a subject on the program and assembly meeting, as it turned out last Friday. This is where the government of Iceland praised the people in the country for less than two weeks ago that they would enable democracy, but so they can't give the public answers to when the election will take place, and they'll assume that there's a list of issues that are all relevant to it, a case list that has not been published except in a strange telegram transfer between the highest level. Minister of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson and Sigurður of Ingi, Jóhannsson of John, in the media. For more than two weeks, these respectable gentlemen have not wanted to make a date in elections, for they and their people argue over matters that the government intends to do. This is going on when 16 meetings days are over. The government that was shaken from power was the most useless government from the beginning, but this new government is not doing anything but arguing about painters and perhaps aims to top the last government in vain. But as long as the government's unscrupulous parties are at hand, people come to the East and protest repeatedly in a peaceful manner of corruption, secretism, political interest, and demand an election immediately. There is also the requirement for the restoration of trust and credibility that the Ministers of the government must show by their actions that they are listening to. It is not reassuring to let nearly four weeks go since the interview with Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunlersson regarding his role in the Wintris Corporation and do nothing on the part of the government to inform the public and minimise the damage when political unrest and the general disaster of Iceland when it came to reputation and credibility. You see, there was absolutely nothing done on the part of the government to prepare an informed response. Secretary of finance flat stomachs in the sun in Florida. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This country must be restored trust, trust between the nation and the foundations of the country, between its people and its rulers, and the international trust of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I believe that's one of the priorities of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u9	Mr. President. Last week the news showed up - that news was about it. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejon's son, whom I'm going to have a word with, who said the exemplary privilege of being a prime minister and now leads to a campaign against the tax authorities. I want to talk about this because I feel that I am careful to be hypocritical and that there is no credibility at the moment. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson is to lead work on anti-llow schemes. We know this, senators who participated in this discussion before the fall. Prime Minister, that we were severely criticized for our presentation and that we were to take this matter up for discussion at the Senate Hall when we called to the highest level information. Prime Minister, and directors responded strongly. I'm going to quote. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, with permission of the President: ▪ During these last days, several members of the council have tried to dissuade Prime Minister's property in an attempt to undermine confidence in political resistance. The trough may be higher. It is suggested that it is illegal to own possessions in foreign lands. It's just totally legal. It is also completely legal to have property in a foreign African country, the British Virgins if so. Then he stated how the assets came about and that all taxes were paid by them, and that was what mattered. Yes, legal but immoral. You see, the big thing is that it doesn't seem to have changed in the mind of those whales. Senators, executives. People think that's okay. They've just been pinched and, you know, really, really, really, really bad. Now is the time. A senator to lead a project against the tax industry. I'm just asking about the credibility of a former colleague. Prime Minister who has spoken in this way; that men can only change their programs completely and feel ready to lead this work. [[The president calls.]] I just don't think it's okay. I believe that others should lead this work because of what has happened. [[The president calls.]] I'm pointing to the motion of the left green on the investigation of these matters, that it's acting out in public.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u10	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for giving me a reason to explain my position in the Assembly Hall on the tax salute. My attitude toward taxes is perfectly clear. I'm opposed to the operation, and I think it's necessary for Iceland to be the lead in the international activities of the tax industry. Tax shot undermines the welfare community, and the equation and fairness that I want to protect. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Jr., recalled that when the members of the council began discussing his wife's national society, I served as prime minister to protect the Passover. Although it is my opinion that the former prime minister should have been informed in advance about his relationship with the national society and the interests of society against the fallen banks, I also felt that it was important to be maintained in the discussion that it was not illegal to own deportations, that confirmation of the accountant would be in accordance with the law and to make a distinction between the agencies that lost the bank's fall and the rest, the vulture funds, which bought requirements for the fall of the bank. I also noted that former prime minister was struggling to see that the demanding banks take on substantial deliberations and that in this he placed the interests of the nation's population first in mind and that I would appreciate it if anything else was highlighted. These points I made, but by no means was I measuring the operation of tax fish in any way. I am truly opposed to the operation of a taxjoke, and I rejoice at this opportunity to compromise my position here. I think it is very important for Iceland to set a good example and initiative in establishing laws against the activities of the tax industry and to work toward that goal in good peace and cooperation with each other. All units, members of Congress. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u11	President. The largest protests in history were here, except for two weeks ago, and it was called after elections. It wasn't called after the election in the fall, it was called after the election. People did not call for the president's continued protection of the same situation, which called for changes. The government responded by promising elections in the fall, yet she does not decide when they should be performed. It is therefore not entirely impossible for a woman to fear that some impossible thing is yet to launch in the government, an impossible option that makes government classes impossible to fulfill their promises. As we sit here, we need to realize that we do so on behalf of the people. When people call for elections with such force, it is to be realized. It should be guided by the will of those to whom we are working rather than by whether it suits us individually or by our political parties, or by Mr. President of the United States of Iceland. The Honorable President of the Parliament said in the news at lunchtime that there would be no doubt that elections would be in the fall. I would like to challenge him, a respectable president, to exert himself with all force to drive the government to state when it should be and what subject the government intends to take in first place. And I would also like to remind you that elections are not a requirement in the fall. The requirement for elections is immediate. The requirement is to change in this society, not the society the president of Iceland has recently taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u12	A respectable president. Iceland is a very powerful community, and when it succeeds in achieving national cohesion, it is amazing what we accomplish. This is what happened at the Republic's establishment, the implementation of the weekend, we saw in the wake of the 2008 economic collapse. A major part of Icelandic society, the European Government Committee, is the General Assembly. This is Iceland's legislature authority, and we've seen that the Council can work together well. Here were the emergency laws set out to rebuild the country after the collapse. Lately, we agreed to new nature protection laws on a wide scale. We are expecting new foreigners to enter the council that has been won in broad agreement. It's possible. I thought of it yesterday when I was the highest. A minister of finance as much as a whistle at the council that the government opposition would not stop when it would be chosen in the fall. A new government has seen a reason to announce that it should be chosen in the fall but at least not yet decided to announce when the ideal day will be. This is mine, I'm allowed to worry because it's a sign that power is more important than the rest. Icelandic society is in pain after what has happened and has occurred in the last few weeks. It is not the time of the ruler and the time of the common people of all nations. That is why I say we at the Council must see a special day, we must see this crucial journal which the government must put forth, for until then this Council is useless and of no profit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u13	A respectable president. This is getting embarrassing. Yesterday, the president of Iceland announced, including... with the evidence that the country's root and uncertainty exists, that it is still available for four years, of course, the task of the highest government is to eliminate uncertainty and establish firmness in society. However, the government and the body of Congress are doing nothing less in these days than increasing the uncertainty about the government. It is not yet available to show the matters that she feels are necessary to settle during the council. Hence, there is complete uncertainty as to what to do in the next few months, if not missed. But not just that. It also does not clearly state when an election should exist in the country to which it has so far, though the basic rule of one country is that it is a matter of how long a government intends to stay. Its choice of dating in the autumn provides reason to believe that even those in that town are wondering if they would try to stay in the spring. It is still ambiguitying all around the government. Added to that, a respectable president, it is not clear who is in charge of the second national government. It must be said, as it is, that the government neglects its whole duty, the head of each government's duty to create a firm, stable, and certain government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u14	Mr. President. On March 15 it was adopted at the General Assembly of the Parliament my resolution proposal and our children's spokesmen at the council that the General concluded that in consultation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, the date adopted by the Children's Law would each year be dedicated to the education of children in the schools. What a happy day that was! Hopefully, it marks a turning point in children's education of their rights and duties. The United Nations Children's Covenant proved to be a turning point in the battle for the rights of children, which includes the international recognition that children are independent of adult rights. The covenant contains basic rights and guarantees special protection and care for all children up to 18 years of age. Similarly, the covenant reflects a new view of the role and status of children and makes it clear that all children have the right to be competent members of the community. Now, U.S.A., under Hjördís Eva Þórðardóttir direction, has been working on and implementing a most exciting task that they call "Purity School. " It is a work model that has been successfully performed in Britain, Canada, and other countries, which provides simple guidance for schools and vacation homes. All children and staff are fully instructed on the rights of children and their rights to do all the school work. Schools that work after this then gain recognition from the United States for being the right schools. This experiment begins here in the fall with three schools, two vacation homes, and one community center. Mr. President. This is only the beginning of further induction of the children's covenant in Icelandic society and that within a few years, all school work will be together with this most important human rights contract in human history. The society that cultivates honesty, love, righteousness, and responsibility along with moderation and humility and respects human rights and puts matters first in a child's life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u15	Mr. President. It is not overhistory that the events of the past few days and the news of yesterday must continue to be discussed in the decision of the future president. I now felt that the logical support used to justify the continuous seat until I was 24. We do, however, have a council where two ministers are still involved in history in so-called Panama documents. Despite the highest. The financial secretary has put something in writing about his investment in a counterfeit & Co. It is not acceptable because it does not show whether the account of the year or otherwise has been returned. A law professor Björn Þórarinsson believed this to be so, when all of this occurred, i.e. When a council breach was denied that the President of Iceland had taken over as a guardian of the government. It seems kind of like that now when the latest news is considered. In fact, the president of our Congress was called to see the President of Iceland without having any idea what was expected of him at such a meeting, and it has not been unusual. There are others who have had an opinion of the reasons why the president of Iceland gives to continue working. I'd like to quote a lunch report from a RUS in which Ragnhildur Helgadóttir was interviewed, which, in fact, says, by permission of the president: ▪ What has happened is a normal, legal reaction to circumstances that arise. In the situation where there is no longer confidence, or necessary, it is thought to speed up elections. And all of this is in harmony with rules. And I think we need to remember there, to be attached to the board order, to be in the rule order, not because it's the same individuals. [[The president calls.]] So it's not about the President of Iceland and his character because, according to what he says, most people have been presidents to care for what needs to be done. It's about order, and that's what we need to remember.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for having this particular discussion about action against taxes and the response of the government to them. As we know who have participated in the past few days of the General Assembly and the community conference seems to have surprised many Icelanders how many of their national societies are linked to the Icelanders, according to the reports that have reached us through the Panama papers. Much has been discussed about the nature of these associates in recent times. As we know, they are not only about avoiding tax payments but also about other advantages for those who have possessions in such societies and perhaps primarily that there is a trust in property, and the budget is located in a completely different kind of rule than in Iceland. In the world, if you study the international discussion, some of those who speak to the taxpayers point out that they can be helped to increase the competitiveness of Western companies, while those who fight this, and there are increasing numbers, say that it undermines the well - being of communities, it undermines healthy domestic living. There are more and more people on the international level who have taken up military action against tax panels. Barack Obama has done so, OECD has done so, Iceland has signed commitments to fight taxes. The Norwegian Minister has declared this. And why? Yes, because the tax industry is not merely a taxpayer, it is also about not all professional life being subject to the same rules, same standards, and, of course, the competitiveness of the country's home. I think it is very important that we try to discuss these matters at the Council, what we are willing to do, and what we can do to take an active part in this struggle. OECD has set up a plan called the BEPS operation programme which is set up for the Base Erosion and Profit Shifping and reverses measures against tax stock degradation and profits. This is a highly planned plan for many measures. Iceland has signed that it wants to be part of this. There have been established CC rules here, but there have been 44 information exchange agreements that deal with the flow of information that is natural about capital. What I want to ask the highest. Whether he feels that this issue should become more priority in government policy, higher priority in view of international discussions, whether he intends to take action on the part of the national authorities, and what measures the government has taken in international activities, the highest level of government. There is the suggestion that we senators of the Left Move have made that at the General Assembly, we are in charge of an investigation of national societies owned by Iceland and the tax industry, thus accepting the plan that, for example, has been announced in France by the president of France, François Hollandes, which has said: This case is so vast that it is important that we handle it, not only within the founding system, but also on the political field, because the common people have to be able to trust that politics will deal with this problem. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister what he believes must be done, what can be done to change the law code. Now the tax investigator has suggested that there are things you can do, e.g. provide additional permission to estimate income if adequate data are not submitted, so office has, in fact, sufficient permission to respond if adequate data is not submitted, that there are even judicial regulations in case sufficient data are not submitted, that the expiration period is extended and that there is also a penalty warrant for counseling, in view that those who are currently counseling or introducing an African society may have legal requirements. It may be reasoned that this procedure might be sharpened so that these advisers are obliged to provide information to the tax investigator on their advice, not just that the tax investigator is now authorized to demand information from them. You can see that although much has been done, both in the international and in the country, fighting this situation can be done much better. It matters what we do at home and in an international setting. On the other hand, I think the most important part of this is that we receive clear political messages that the Allied Council is serious about combating taxes, that the Allied Council takes sides, is taking these matters for real discussions, and thus is actually sharing in the discussion that exists elsewhere in the West. [[The president calls.]] This is about how we run our Western democratic and welfare communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u17	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to discuss these matters at the council and say yes. Of course, a senator is obliged to respond to the pleas made clear that governments take seriously the problem, the tax frauds, and think they will respond. This raises the question of what the Icelandic government has done or has planned to do. It is important to keep what has already been done. OECD status was mentioned. We are among the nations who signed it first and will be among the nations who first bring it into the so - called, English, Early Adopters Group. We've made information exchange agreements, last in London 12 of this month, based on the cooperation of the Northern countries on such agreements. We have also participated in the BEPS program, which was referred to as the emphasis is on changing the interstitial and hardening rules, validation regulations on the thin self-finishment and upcoming CFC rules as well as being referred to. Earlier this month, April 13, representatives of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs participated in a meeting in Paris with OECD, a so-called JITSIC team, which made up the decision on the continuation of its cooperation. First, a joint action programme will be implemented where the project is to coordinate the actions of the Member States on further information collection and second, to work together firmly with the objective of maximising the benefits of the cooperation and changing or applying national legislation to the full extent possible working for that purpose. It will also be examined to take up new ways and break up the work groups into smaller units so that the work can go faster. Finally, it was prominent at the meeting earlier in this month at the OECD stage that many of the delegates felt that there was a benefit in going along the way that a working group suggested in Iceland, a staff I formed, where the governor, the taxpayer, the tax investigator, and other members of the management system made up a bill that I eventually introduced to the Economic and Business Committee. In this season, we've been very active. We've abandoned our involvement in the OECD standard. We recently finished other information exchange agreements. We have purchased the data that the tax investigator has had for treatment, which was a unique procedure. A great deal of international attention has been drawn to the fact that the Icelanders have taken the step ahead of many others. These data are available and will be useful at work in the future. Since the release of these data from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we have contacted key institutions in this field, offered additional support and called for indications of whatever we can do in the field of law or administration to further support these research, and to improve our ability to eliminate tax fraud and to tolerate it in our community. This discussion is extensive. In Iceland, for example, the discussion has not been a big deal that society has a wide range of subjects. For example, it is absolutely certain that national pension funds are devoted to some of the investments of funds registered in low taxes areas, so - called ethnic areas. That's for sure. International banks are accustomed to install funds that are marketed for pension systems in various countries and are eventually registered in such areas. Thus, many pensioners in Iceland are saving savings that is saved in this environment. This points to the potential harm to independent from the competitiveness of these regions, such as the European Union. That's right, but I think we should focus our attention primarily on the double-crossing, picking up the information, removing the secrets, and preventing tax fraud. Then we can deepen our discussions and wonder how Iceland can establish itself in a country so that we can pursue a healthy competition on healthy grounds because no one really speaks of competition, even though it can be harmful in certain cases, on the basis of the information presented in a foreign country. [[The president calls.]] We've taken a substantial part of the benefit of putting this into place by the CFC legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u18	A respectable president. It's not that complicated. We are simply told not to let a person store his money in those places. The Council of Government has so far questioned that we could do so because of the European Economic Area Convention, but now it is declared by the ESA that nothing can stop us from simply baning it in our laws. That's what we're supposed to do. But we should also be eager to get all the information we can about those who have shot off taxes and obligations. Among other things, we are to obtain that information into our banks because it is just an information about who sent money out to these islands is found in our banks at home. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance whether he is not going to try to get information into the banking system. I must also ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether it is reasonable for him to take the lead in this matter after the foregoing. Whether he believes it is credible that after the information he himself protected was not available in the General Assembly of Iceland and if he could not see it, which is obvious to any man after what has come up in these matters, it is unavoidable to interrupt the council and to vote immediately so that those who are employed here can take the opportunity and the faith that would be directly from the candidates of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u19	A respectable president. The tax laws are to be just and not too burdensome, and then people should pay taxes in Iceland if they live here. It's not supposed to be complicated. It's right in front of us. I'm not going to make up other opinions on these matters, but I can't overlook the fact that you have good reason to be suspicious of the parties when it comes to these simple issues. In the turn of the crash, the parties that were then controlled in Iceland were spoken of as being just some sort of party. This kind of behavior was spoken up, taking wealth to foreign countries. In an effort to ensure the return of taxes, they drew their feet in putting the necessary rules and regulations on all of these activities. That is one reason for suspicion. I think it's good for the board of directors to face this. Then there's what's happened in the past few weeks. What happened here? First of all, it's the highest. The secretary of finance to explain clearly that his affairs are well understood before he is fully confident to handle these matters on behalf of the people. On the other hand, the then prime minister was found to keep his family's money in an ethnic society, in a tax crisis. For this reason, other members of Parliament were called members of the council because they wanted to raise the issue, if it was really okay. V.E.G. The president felt that this was not needed in a councilroom. The present prime minister stated that somewhere the money needs to be and that having money in Iceland is complicated. Of course, all these comments translated into the world language are so natural that you are standing here and suspicious of it from the deepest emotional roots and ask whether the present administration groups consider this an urgent task and in some way serious to be dealing with the fact that some people want to keep their money in taxes, where it is very easy to get away from paying taxes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u20	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion about the government's response to taxes and the information presented here. In my opinion, Iceland should be in the highest order of the government in fighting the operation of the tax industry. Especially in view of the fact that Iceland has a wide history in Mossack Fossecca's data. The secret to which a tax host offers companies has been abused for various purposes, e.g. To avoid taxes, to avoid the rules of a financial market on fictitious policy, to falsify financial funds, and to conceal poorly. International companies have used tax appeals to bring profits from countries where the real activity takes place in low taxes and thus avoid paying taxes to society. The exception of taxes undermined society's well - being, so it should be government priorities at all times, especially in the light of available information on the scope of the problem, fighting the activity of taxes. The Economic and Business Committee has called up representatives from the head of the government, the tax investigator, the SEC and the Federal Bank. These meetings have been opened by the media, and members of Congress have been given the opportunity to ask questions, learn how these institutions or their spokesmen feel about the matter, and what opportunities to make legal adjustments. The Commission has also received representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and has invited the Commission to provide financial services and accountants with memos on the subject. The meetings and memos have been used to inform members of the problem's scope and what options could be considered to help them cope. As chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, I believe it is of utmost importance that the Commission continues to gain knowledge of the problems and possible options. I believe that the committees will be willing to work swiftly on executives aimed at hindering the operation of taxes and even the members and the committee will take the initiative to present such a case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u21	A respectable president. We are here to discuss government responses to taxes. For the past two weeks, it has to be said that the response of the government has not been very clear. It's hard to have money in Iceland. Somewhere, the money has to stay. This reminds us of the ancient Icelandic or Episcopal novels. It cannot be seen that our national leaders have made themselves clear, as they were. Erna Solberg, prime minister of Norway, who said that banks need to engage in social responsibility, and it would be unacceptable for a Norwegian bank to have one of these things in the country. Angela Merkel and François Hollande have both hailed the arrival of the Panama Documents. There has not been any specific reaction from a former prime minister or financial minister that it is good to know that we have it on the table. It's not just a tax fraud, that people cheat on taxes. We should not take this discussion as just the tax fraud question or not. It's also about morals and how a community we want to build and how the banking system is and how society should be run. I think it's the best. The secretary of finance focuses on too much on the tax fraud side of all of this, when I think it would be much better to talk more about the morality that lies behind it and the moral breakdown that led to the years before a collapse that caused people to place bank accounts on the Off-counts of the continents. Finally, I also suggest the highest. The government will decide on a special day as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u22	A respectable president. We'll discuss government action against national and national tax markets, as this is so that by means of tax cover Iceland every year out of the amount of 30 to 50 billion dollars. According to experts and based on the information I have. On March 29, five days before the Wintris Show was shown, he wrote the highest. The secretary of finance and economics the following on his Facebook page, by permission of presidents: Everyone is to be returned to community business. Most people follow this rule, of course. I will leave no place to reach the others who disqualify the laws and rules and want to get a free ride with their fellow citizens who maintain their quality of life in Iceland. I wonder and ask that question to the highest. Ministers of finance why then, for almost three weeks, have no special decisions or declarations of specific actions in the light of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance on how he intends to let nothing happen to those who ignore the laws and rules as he put it. What action will the secretary of finance take to build Iceland's financial reputation and show that we as a community have no interest in being world champions for tax gain? What's the best message. The secretary of the economy to send the outside world when it comes to showing that this will be taken into account in terms related to the trades of the Icelanders into the tax industry? It's the highest. In view of his position, the secretary of finance was the best qualified to declare and show that Iceland does not tolerate tax collections at the rate the Panama Documents have shown? If there has ever been a need for firmness in response and action when it comes to major combating taxes, it is now. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to the top. Secretary of finance to demand in the light of his declarations three weeks ago, a respectable president, to stand here for specific measures in the light of the matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u23	A respectable president. This was shown in an open meeting. A last week's economic and business committee suggests that the tax investigator has some 600 societies in the so - called African countries associated with about 400 Icelanders. I was interested to learn that of these 600 companions associated with 400 Icelanders, it was only about 30 cases in a special opinion and that charges might be published in one of their cases. These details indicate that in this discussion it is important to wonder why the so - called continental communities have been consulted. There are a number of reasons. In some cases, there may be some kind of tax appeal. However, in this regard it is also appropriate to remember that, for example, during the years prior to the bank crash, capital tax was not so exaggerating in Iceland. I'm not so sure that that was the reason for these matters. The secret of possession, the quest for possession, and so forth - in many cases legitimate and grammatical reasons. I think it's important for men to keep that in mind. Before there's a radical change of law with included commands and bans, as I hear people here are calling for, I think that it's fundamentally fundamental to discover the reasons why men have formed societies in a foreign country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u24	Mr. President. Iceland's reputation has been lost, and Iceland's face is damaged. This is why the use of Icelandic politicians on taxes and exposes property to the highest level of property. Ministers of such taxes and crowns for a short or long time. A person making use of a tax dress will do so for a purpose. The purpose is to hide money and avoid paying taxes; avoid contributing to society, such as in the way, hospitals, education systems, and law enforcement. The use of taxes by politicians gives the impression that they are willing to share their share with others in the government business. Iceland has that image of the financial minister himself. It can be said that the unveiling of Panama's documents on the secret mask of the Honourable Minister was a sort of vendibility in a Icelandic community. The public objected to corruption and demanded changes with the largest protests in the history of the country. I agree with that requirement, Mr. President. We need to investigate who have taken advantage of the tax industry and find out what resulted from the accident of the Icelandic community and welfare system by losing taxes. We need to strengthen the office of the head of the tax and taxpayer so that they can do their job in this regard. We are to work with other nations in the fight against the use of taxes and taxpayers and in the building of laws against the use of taxes. Mr. President. We must take decisive action, preventing the use of tax machines from continuing to undermine society, whether financial or moral.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u25	A respectable president. I appreciate your need for this discussion. I find it interesting to this case that it is not as if we have not known of this reality, but when thousands of documents are leaked and there are names on the owners of these African communities, action will be demanded of a very strong, urgent and worldwide. I have to agree with some of the people who have spoken here, but I have not had the impression that the government who now sits and the one sitting here two weeks ago is very interested in extorting tax fraud over their heads. I called for a special discussion on this subject. I sent the highest. Two months ago, a professional minister of inquiry asked one simple question, actually two, but they were simple, about what governments would have done to resist social security, as defined in the Treaty. It's been two months and I haven't been answered yet. How complicated is this? Even though it's the highest. The secretary of finance has been talking about tax fraud, and other matters have not made him feel very decisive in this regard. I know we're here to talk about our societies, but I want to put it all under the same hat. It doesn't matter how tax fraud takes place. Governments must always make policy that tax fraud is not available. They are distressing. This is where our people come to the community, and we all do it as one. I was looking at the tax investigator's contributions. He received 290 million in 2013, 300 million 2014, then in 2015 the contributions dropped to 297 million and increased back to 322 million in 2016. It seems to me that the rise since 2013 is hardly hanging in a pay development point, so to me the government hasn't set that policy, and it's showing that tax fraud is completely unpleasant. [[The president calls.]] I think it's time to take action on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u26	V.E.G. President. The discovery of the Panamas has called for a global reaction. The best part of this is a profound change of attitude and a concerted international effort to share information and make debinos impossible to hide from legitimate taxes. I welcome the response, and I also welcome the reactions in our society and the necessary change of viewpoint. Thank you. paritaprevir The Katrín Jakobsdóttir daughter for this discussion, which is part of going through the contingency of action. V.E.G. I thank the minister for a detailed review of the responses and measures taken by the Icelandic government in recent years against such activity. It must be maintained; OECD standard, CFC rules, information exchange agreements, individual operation in data stores, etc. In a world where free flow of capital is considered desirable, the nature of the matter is that money is looking for high - interest areas or low taxes. However, confidential, opaque, and tax collections are not meant to be tolerated. The task is to expose the secrecy so that such communities cannot get away with extorting from taxes. Now we've got a what? The Economic and Business Committee took the initiative in this work and, among other things, held two open and very useful meetings with the head of the state tax and the head of the tax and another with the Secret Service. In these meetings and thereafter, there have been very helpful suggestions and suggestions that the Committee can work on and take action to strengthen legislation in the battle against such activity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u27	A respectable president. The underlying tone of this discussion may be presented, as it were, in some way as to whether tax shelter is legitimate or that there are legitimate reasons for having communities in the tax industry. It is a matter of reasoning that the government should compete for tax laws. I understand the argument of competing for taxes, but it's one thing to compete with other countries like the North and another to compete with a state like the British Virgin Islands. One is possible, the other is not possible. We will never defeat a tax agreement for tax laws unless we become a taxpayer. Given that we're not going to become a tax dress, I assume that this competition is not possible, and then we should not seek it. Rather, we should try to find ways to prevent people from using this tax cover over their heads because, like a dog, they do. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson sometimes calls them, they're an information hole, and that alone is a problem. No matter what the purpose of human society is to take its societies to these places, these areas are an information hole. It's hard to get information there, if it's possible over a head. There's one big problem with them. This means that a legitimate purpose, such as a person who conducts an operation there, will not help us in the fight against it and will not be able to do so. Therefore, we are not to flirt with ideas of competition with such a state or laws. There is another underlying tone, which the elephant in the room, in my opinion, is simply the credibility of the government. We must maintain a response that came up. This is where the speech of great might have been dropped at the High Council, when the supreme case came to pass. a former prime minister came up. They said a dirty mission, a respectable president. That's not my word. That's a word of the highest order. Secretary of state on this matter. A dirty expedition, a respectable president. I'm sorry, I just think it's important to keep it up. It's the speech that came up. The same government is supposed to have credibility to deal with these issues. I don't think so, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion. V.E.G. One minister spoke of tax fraud as the main issue, however, there must be a healthy competition for the market in these matters as well as for others. But there's something healthy, chief. Ministers, we tax votes, where we look at secrecy and indiscriminateness, as have been pointed out, and a completely different system of things that we have chosen to build ourselves here along with the rest of our countries? I would like to say that the struggle against taxes is also a matter of conflict. I can agree with them. Councilmen who have been disappointed in response, or at least first reaction, haematoma. Councilmen and the highest. Minister of the current board of administrations when Panama was discovered. I would have chosen to react like those we saw, e.g. At François Hollande, which I quoted earlier, which said: "This is important. We need to investigate this, because the existence of taxes and deportations is a threat to our system, how we build our systems. It's not just a tax divorce thing. It is also a matter of order and healthy competition, not of unhealthy competition. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister. I specifically asked him about our proposal for an investigation of debinos and tax documents, that the Council describes his political will and conducted such an investigation. There's been a lot of discussions about the issues that will be done before the election. I think it's one of the cases we're supposed to do, Mr President, and that the General should take it into his hands and say, "It's a political wish to handle these matters. It is not only about tax fraud as such, it is also about the existence of these associates, for it is the debate that takes place in the great world. We Icelanders were pulled into that discussion by suddenly becoming so far-reachingly tangible in the halls of the council and in the community. [[The president calls.]] However, the credibility of the Generalis is about us showing that we are able and able to handle it as a community to cope with such serious issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u29	A respectable president. The government's credibility in this case is repeatedly preemptive. I've traced this issue to a long time before we were engaged in international cooperation to eliminate the root cause of the problem, which is the lack of information, with our participation in the area of OECD and elsewhere. We've put money on buying their data in the past year so that our agencies, which have a special role in getting their tails, would have the tools and tools and support of the government, to carry out their role. This is clear evidence of the priorities of a government that is not going to accept tax fraud. These are matters that we had taken care of and taken care of long before this case came up. If they haven't heard me say it here, I've repeatedly done it in my work, e.g. in dealing with my Ministry to the institutions that work in this field, that we are going to use the data, all the opportunities we can have, and get to us to do more to these roles. I feel like they're making a little bit of a decision about what to do with it. They want to take the discussion on a very broad basis. They want to put on the same shelf those who have made their doors clean, have nothing to hide, have followed Icelandic laws and regulations, and others who are hiding and trying to avoid fair taxation. I don't think it's a big deal. I'm going to say so. The question is, Shouldn't we forbid people to keep money or to have some activity in a foreign land? What do you think it means to ban people who deliberately turn around and not give up? What do you think means, "Don't do it"? It's already forbidden not to give up their taxes. It's already forbidden not to give up money and not come back here with tax pay on a business like this. It's already forbidden. I don't think there's anything else against it that's likely to happen when we have people who deliberately flout the law. It is also fine in this broad discussion that people have only been doing here on fiscal competition in terms of paying taxes to remind us that we are for a number of fine tax schemes. [[The president calls.]] So let's mention the film industry, where we pay 20% back from all the domestic costs, policies to 25%, or permanent discount from taxes to large industry, which was taken care of last year, etc.? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The countries will continue to compete on tax issues. It is a special subject. There, the international cooperation is a fundamental factor in our success in that area. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to call for an answer to a question I sent two months ago at the highest level. Professional minister. I realize that often we have a complex question, or they call us by ambiguous data. I've never been upset about not getting answers on time. I know that the management board is often subdiscovered. But these were very simple questions about social security. Two questions that a minister could actually answer on his computer on the way from the Ministry to the council. It's not complicated, and I'm getting longer for an answer. I'd like to ask the President to call for today's preferential and no later than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u31	The president wants to report that the president and the office regularly remind the Ministry to answer questions that have not been answered at the scheduled time. At times, it may be a matter of material questions that take longer to answer them than was planned and to be expected in the council. Like what? Congress officials have observed that the president regularly reads of the President's chairs advising that they have not been able to answer questions at the scheduled time. For the question of the why. Of course, a senator whom the president does not know what to say will follow it like other questions to ask the Ministry to speed it up. In addition, the president gives an interesting review of the general number of queries during this council for a written answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the President for the words he now made from his last speech chair. I want to do something like that. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir complaining about questions. I asked a question, or it was distributed here, February 17 to the highest. The financial and economic secretary for Iceland's petitions, including answers, has not been received. It was February 17th. It's not complicated, I think, to answer such comprehensive information that the Ministry should have access to. I want answers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u33	The President will make the same decision. As the president mentioned earlier, the general office and the FBI are constantly trying to push forward, but the president of the United States has, of course, an understanding that there may be considerable work loads to answer many questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u34	A respectable president. I feel that I must use this opportunity to complain that I have now waited for a rather simple, self - righteous inquiry to the highest level. State Department. In a short talk as the highest. As far as I'm concerned, the minister of finance was concerned yesterday about the efforts of this government to answer this government, he asserted, according to my understanding, that this government had answered more questions than the last one. I compiled numbers and compiled documents marked with the type of answer from the last term and to April 18, 2012. On April 18, 2012, 778 documents were marked as responders, but they were yesterday and today are 769. The response rates are thus comparable, but they were only slightly smaller now but were at the same time during the last terms. I wanted to keep it in place, since men mentioned the facts in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u35	A respectable president. I recommend a Parliamentary transport protocol, at last, prior to 2015•2018. According to law No. 33/2008, for a transport plan, shall be submitted every four years by secretary of the World Council for a resolution of transport to 12 years, with policies and objectives for all the branches involved. The current transport process will take place in 2011 and 2011,2022. The four-year work programme, which will be reviewed every two years, should be submitted concomitantly. The transport programme presented thus consists of a second-time work programme for the current 12-year transport programme and the first period of a new policy-making program for the 2015-226 period, which is being completed. It is very important in my opinion that the plan will receive careful coverage and payment at the council, as I am sure it will be, so we can work on an approved transport program. A transport plan for 2013-2016 was submitted twice at the Council but could not be completed. At that time, the proposal for transport was proposed in 2015-2018 to the last spring Summit, but as it is well known, it was not completed before the end of the council. A board of directors over the development of the programme, but as a world knows, the development of a transport strategy is very stable, and this is in line with the policy of the relevant transport programme, period 2011-03/022, the importance of government, Minister and other public plans that are important. Transporting plan is one of the perfect days in which a couple live and are very long-term policy-makers for Iceland when it comes to the development of transport workers. The draft proposal presented here is reviewed for budget 2015 and on the basis of budgets for 2016. After the many years of cuts that we all know after the collapse of banks, which brought on new construction and maintenance, there was a significant reversal of donations during the past year. During 2011-2014, contributions were made to more than 7 billion each year, but they went to less than 10 billion each year in 2015. In 2015, additional contributions approved in budgets amounted to 3 billion, including 500 million. K. the most important maintenance of road roads in the capital area and road along with the state estimates of the Vega industry is 1,300 billion. K. to implement important tourist routes; Fallifos Road, Queen's Passway, Uxabal, and Kaldadal. Then 1,139 million were added. K. in the road to the increase in the cost of winter services as a result of snowy winter winter winters and increased high-seats. In addition, there were improvements to the state intensity of domestic flights and 50 million. K. to reject, e.g. due to necessary water immersion in the Cape. A respectable president. I have to admit that I had somehow seized it, which is sort of strange, that I had a longer speech lesson than it is, so I have to cut down a lot of things by some means. That's why I'm going to start by putting on what's most basic things and saving other factors and then seeing what time it is. The increase in road income has been significant. Funds in 2016 expect an additional 300 billion. K. Public transport funding, both land and capital, to ferry, and national flights. Then a new Western island is scheduled to be launched as soon as possible this year. As we know, the process becomes a significant improvement in the transport of Western eyes and will improve the safety and service of sailing to the Western Islands. During 2017 and 2018, the government's decision to add 3 billion to each year's road - building contributions from the previous proposal will be made. In particular, contributions should be made to improve the safety of road users. It will be set up at a rate of 1 billion. in maintenance, but in many areas, the situation of heavy groups traffic in tourism has increased there. That's a 1 billion bucks. increased in order to speed up the misappreciative streets of the Ruyjanes Way in Krysavík and 350 million. K. will go to reforms on the slopes of Hafnarfjörður, which will no longer be a year's journey. It is important to build a ground - to - ground network with a full carrier and bound layer and a car - and - road erosion and separate road policies, to reduce the number of bridges on multi-rowed roads, and to bury a tunnel in accordance with a tunnel plan. At that time, adequate maintenance must be guaranteed, not to lose the value already bound in roads, bridges, and tunnels, and other manpowers. During the period, it is expected that 26 billion will be used in maintenance and over 44 billion in construction projects on farms and interfaces, of which nearly 14 billion are to be built. The largest development in the period is the development of North Land Marches that will be opened in the fall of 2017, the gradification of the highest part of the Southland road, the Western summer road from Etjämi in the Guflavour Islands, the Bear farm neck on the Strand Road, the round road around the Hornfjörður, and, finally, a round road in the Bay of Bergundum, as well as a number of smaller works. In the capital area, traffic flows are to be improved by smaller tasks to eliminate the necks of the bottle, to improve the priority of public transportation, and to improve traffic security, as well as to those mentioned earlier because of the further government's growth. The plan is to begin the construction of an animal - pine tunnel in 2017 and replace North Landways. Then, research for the Fräulein will continue in the period while implementing the industrial region at Boka at Húsavík, which is saved in a transport program, although custody is in the hands of the Department of Professional and Neo-news, will be over the course of time. Involvement will be restored to the programme, but funding will be sought in cooperation with private partners. The importance of this implementation for the transport systems of the capital and the security of the citizens must be noted. Despite the fact that there are no more major projects during this period, the time will be spent looking for ways to finance such projects in cooperation with private workers so that larger projects that are important to security and quality of life can be accelerated. Transport plays a major role in the environment. Global commitments to climate change require significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, especially from transport. Thus, projects and projects that contribute to energy exchange, energy saving and transport use of national energy, such as electricity, continue to be supported. The proposal highlights a wide variety of transport options and support of environmental transport; public transportation, walking and biking, which also improve human health and thus reduce the health costs. It is important that different travel methods not be set against one another but also to build on the variety of tourism and to make sure that our highway system, as well as urban footways, will be able to do the traffic that is on it. During the course of 2015●2018, public transport throughout the country, guarantees access to public services, increases the safety and costs of transport of households in cooperation and in accordance with treaties with the national community organisation. Public transportation accounts for 11.5 billion dollars. Of these, 4 billion flow to public transport in the capital area, about 6.5 billion for ferry and public transport in the country, and finally only for the purpose of flying within the country of 1,239 million. K. According to Vega's travel survey, a wide variety of travel routes have become more popular in urban areas, choosing about a quarter of the city's capital area to be cycled, walking, or with a bus in the summer. Thus, bicycling and footpaths, hiking and subpass will continue to be brief to improve safety and improve health benefits. The demand for road service is growing, and this will continue, especially with increasing numbers of foreign tourists. Good service is essential to a more reliable and reliable approach. The information sharing of the Road Type on signs, webs, and telephones and smart devices is exemplary, and all the people benefit from the ability to explore the weather and access the roads electronically into a powerful information system. Because of adverse weather conditions and increasing service requirements in recent years, winter service has been a source of great numbers. It is added to the services provided so that other services can be met, such as by painting lines and roads. It is estimated that 18 billion dollars. will be used to service the road system during the period. The aim of the rejection phase of the strategy is to ensure the infrastructure of marine roads and transport. Coastal ports, coastal waters, and shipping projects have now moved to Vega's construction site. It is estimated that some 6.2 billion will be spent on navigation during this period. That's 4.3 billion for docks and 464 billion. K. to seaproof, including to focus on vigil activities in the Valley of Moriscos. We'll be spending 900 billion at the waterfront. D.K., but the watch station is fired in cooperation with D.C. and Emergency Line. For maintenance and management, and guidance systems are running 450 million. In addition, research and development funding will be spent, in addition to conventional research projects that will contribute to improved design and maintenance of manpower and a study of renewable energy sources with the aim of increasing energy saving and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases from ships. Other projects, including security and monitoring, including the Marine Accident Prevention School, have now moved to a Grouping Room. During this period, it is expected that 1.3 billion will be used as a basis for construction, including land conditions. to investigate and implements designed to permanently reduce sand exposure, annual deepening and healing at the dock site. Then, as I did earlier, a new Western island is expected to be offered as soon as possible. The flying part of the transport program deals with emphasis, project, business, and implementation, as well as the flight history of Isa ohf. to conduct a service contract with the current state reviewed, which ran out at the end of 2015. Of course, the Cheflavor airport is the greatest mystery of the country, subjecting to European cial and competitive rules. The airport has become self-sustained and a service fee under airport management and air bases, except for services on state flight and part of the search for weapons. The number of passengers traveling in the field has increased rapidly. This year more than 6.6 million passengers are expected. Predictions for the growing number of passengers that ensure the management ground of the field are expected, but they also require an enormous structure to be carried out by Istavia. The company's estimates assume that the cost of building is at tens of billions of dollars, and projections are expected to increase the number of airplanes and passengers on the field below the financial cost. Within the national network, all the airports and landing sites that Istavia runs according to a service contract. Total except budgets for projects that are carried out by the company under a service contract 8.5 billion in the period. Plan flights have 11 destinations, of which six of the direct state management routes are held, while the rest are driven on market grounds. All maintenance, implementation, and 2/3 parts of internal management costs are funded by contributions from the government fund under a service contract and the need for significant investments is known to exist in the flying part of the programme. Other revenues, such as landing costs and passenger expenses, depend on the missing amount or 1/3 of cost of operating. Of these 8.5 billion, more than 3/4 billion are involved in business, while a quarter for maintenance and implementation, which, of course, is not adequate, but the largest part of it goes to the maintenance of runways and equipment on the Akureyri International Airports, Egressus, and in Reykjavík. There is a steady increase in aircraft orbiting the Icelandic flying site. About 145 of you. In 2015, aircraft moved through the area and increased by 11%. The airport is very large, but Istavia is also directing a flight to Greenland under contract. A growing tourist service has been observed and has had a major impact on its activities, but it is responsible for the registration and monitoring of all new tourist vehicles. A large number of international requirements include flight drivers, air protection and air security, including control of air-related management and human activities, as there is a high priority. Now, about 25 airlines are flying to Iceland in the summer until and around the year nine. Therefore, monitoring of national and international aircraft has been increasing in scope, including the immediate distribution of international aircraft with the aim of ensuring safety. The aim of the security strategy is to increase transport safety and reduce the number of accidents. Emphasis is on documenting incidents and accidents to learn and to prevent repeated accidents and accidents. Road safety programs set out aims to increase drivers'awareness of road hazards, to reduce accidents, and to reduce the number of serious injuries and deaths. The objective is to have the number of people who are killed in traffic at every 100 o'clock. population will not be more than the lowest in other nations, and the number of severely injured people will be reduced significantly. The number of lives we've lost in traffic during our last losses is a big concern. We can never accept it. Traffic safety plans are not funded particularly this year, but the road model, the Transporter and the State Police Department will still protect 430 billion. K. for a number of road safety measures during the year with changed priorities, as it is inevitable and of smaller importance that money is available in traffic security. A respectable president. It's getting tighter with time, and the speech is way too long, but let's see. Transport is also involved in research and various aspects of transportation, such as environmental and security, and 600 billion. K. research is being done during the period in which many are making good money in innovation and use, as well as which results often provide better support for policy development and decision making. How vital it is that we continue to provide funds for our research and continue to look ahead of time on transportation! Most of the public transport projects defined in the transport program 2011-022 are now complete, and the transport of public transport to rural society and the production of socio-economic analyses of the importance of domestic flights. New assignments are now being carried out. These include the analysis of job application areas and of tasks that improve the use of transport workers. The goal of most of them is to investigate aspects of the structure and maintenance and use of human activities, but especially to provide sound information on the information that lays the basis for a good transport policy, which, of course, is what we are trying to achieve. A respectable president. I've been running around here on the issues in this proposal for a transport plan. [[The president calls.]] I emphasize that the council finally gets the case, as I say, to treat it, and I look forward to interacting with the council for that reason and asking the Council to benefit from covering this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u36	V.E.G. President. I say it like the highest. Minister: At last, a transport program is established. And I'm sure after a difficult birth in the board. Since we are sure that we are living in society, this process of transportation disappoints me because of the lack of it. It is very consistent with the strategy proposed during the last assembly. At that time, more of the environment and transport committees took place and changed the programme considerably, increasing their activities and financial resources because of lack of need. Then something you hoped would not happen. The government officials, prospective government leaders, cleaned up and said, "No more, no more. The plan went on because the representatives of the majority of the Committee acknowledged that there was nothing in that program and that it was not acceptable according to the needs; they added, but then they raised it. My first question to the highest. A minister is this: Is there a possibility that something similar might happen today? The second question may be more important. I know from the past that when you put out a travel program, you can be disappointed, but you can also be proud and content with plans. I was with my plans in times of trouble. My second question to the highest. Minister is the highest. Ministers of pride and satisfied with the transport plans it provides here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u37	A respectable president. In the government budgets, like what? A senator well knows where we want to go and where we want to go on certain matters. We have also been setting significant priorities for the welfare of the government. Fortunately, we have also been putting up extra funding in collective agreements that we all celebrate and are happy with. Those of us who are interested in transportation cannot say that we can get everything we want, and that knows why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, former secretary of transportation, well. Although he was proud of his plans, it's always such that in this category, we're talking about 13,000 miles of roads, it's hard to put up a plan that everyone's happy with. As to the questions, it's been my opinion, that's why it's happening so late, that a transport plan has to be in touch with the reality of the state's affairs. So I don't like the transport minister of any particular time to have a policy-making program, and when he's done talking about it and is happy with it, then there's some sort of money to be made, and then there's someone completely other reality that we know. I've wanted to avoid it. Therefore, this process of transportation is adapted to the reality that you envision to become. For word's sake. The senator for the last spring plan, I also feel that the council that has the means to secure the financial resources to follow if it is going to make changes in the transport program. There is no use for a road program that guarantees everything that's beautiful if the funds are not available in the budget. This is the context of the parts. That's where I admit it. paritaprevir Kristján Möller and the highest. President, I was overwhelmed by optimism when I thought it was really possible to achieve this success. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's possible, because that's why we're more going in this direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer, and well understood it. A commitment to transport is confirmed by the government and therefore decided that its support will be applied to the budget of each year. It's a date plan ahead. Now they're making a plan for a long time. I have to say, as it is, the small part of the plan is considering what the government has decided, so I don't believe that the members of the board are going to accept it as they are. I will take one example because, of course, members of the Parliament discuss their territory, an area they know best: By 2017, people in so - called northern regions are given 200 million. K. on all that land runoff. In 2018, that is 150 million. K. Here are several Councilmen from the North Eastern Cathedral and, among other things, members of the administrative body, including the driving force. 1st. That's the north side. [[The president calls.]] Which is now, and I think he'll be with us for a long time. I ask him, " Is he happy about this? ' For my part, I say to the minister, this is totally unacceptable. A policy to provide 1 billion public transports in the capital area was conditioned to reduce construction in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] But that is not the case. The greatest projects will still be carried out in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u39	A respectable president. It'll always be that way, we'll be going a little bit between parts of the country of this. If we are to make adjustments, we will need to adjust. In view of the money I think I may receive, I make the suggestion. That's what it's like. That is the answer to the question. Therefore, the plan may not be as swollen as it would be because I myself do not necessarily believe that it will appear in the budget. [[Up front.]] So it is, and there is no new truth: these are old and new things, as they are said. In fact, I have to correct one respectable president: I said there are over 1,000 miles of roads in this country. Don't forget, the fine Councilmen of the Northeast now a part of me, that there are considerable funeral projects, even though I can quite understand that men want more in their provinces. We are always struggling with where the money should go. [[The president calls.]] Priorities must be placed. This is the priorities suggested here. I challenge the council because I'm sure people want more transportation money: Do it so that we can live up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u40	A respectable president. I'm not going to give a district talk about where the need is the most urgent. We know there's a need all over the country. But the highest. Speaking of priorities, a minister said that the government put money on health matters, that it was the priorities of the government. I'd like to remind you that the government was setting priorities, so it dropped 80 billion into debt. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: When there was a huge need for infrastructure - also in the light of tourists who have come to an unprecedented scale, this is no longer about us in the ideals to drive the roads, but about the tourists - to set 80 levels. Millions in a debt breakdown that spread, so that a lot of people got money that they had nothing to do with? Is that your priorities? Minister is satisfied? If she didn't want to build up billions, take the most dangerous roads, e.g. one piece of bridges and another one that's urgent? I also see, on the money that's been given on transportation for the past eight years, that we're not taking anything jumpy uphill. This is moderate amounts, and the increase is not great between years. So I would have thought that priorities should be different. It should have been in the interest of building timber, not experimental contributions to people with one type of loan, as it turned out. I'm going to experience this as the campaign for the forward party's campaign offer of the Independence Party. That is how I experienced this debt breakdown.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u41	A respectable president. Actually, I think that was all right with that operation. This is so that every legal case in the state is important. This is certainly important. I think I have, since I sat down in this chair minister, tried to speak as if I had been able to push the need to improve there. To tell you the truth, there is no disagreement between the matter and the ball, either with the minister of this office or with the general of the country. I think people in general want to do much better in these matters. They are gradually trying to get their way in that direction. Note, though, the money that is put into it and try to make the best of it. That is what the Minister of the Interior is doing at any given time. I strongly believe that we should do much more of it, and that's what we're trying to do in this program, to put money in maintenance. They're making a lot of money out of it. Of course, we need to take on specific new developments. It tells itself, and we know there's an accident here and there. Hv. A senator rightly referred to bridges that are essentially dangerous in the eastern parts of the country and in other parts of the country. We have at times entertained the idea that it would be fun to go into action to completely wipe out a single bridge. This requires considerable priorities in that direction. We have also decided, as much as I would like to remind men, to keep always a substantial amount of transport on the soil. Every year, we spend 3◯3.5 billion in a tunnel. They're no longer used for anything else. We've been doing it this way that each funeral project replaces another. Of course, it's a very big part of the budget we're talking about here. So we are always in some form of priorities in transportation. Of course, it is not easy to decide what to do, but these are not things that are invented in one or two months, it is many years of conversation that takes place between all political parties and others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u42	A respectable president. I think it's true that we agree that this is urgent, and I'm sure all of us would like to see more money in the lawsuit. According to this, if I understand correctly, should I increase the pressure between 2017 and 2018, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u43	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u44	Not that much.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u45	About 3 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u46	Between 2017 and 2018. It's less than 24 billion 2016, less than 29 billion and then again, less than 29 billion. Human beings are coming to the earth with caution, and we might say too carefully. It's like the highest. Of course, a minister said that there is no money in various lawsuits, health issues, academic matters, and so on. Another challenge is winter service, how it has been improved, and how we need to deal with snow - heavy winters. [[The president calls.]] I just want to reiterate what the minister said: it's all about priorities. And priority was to place 80 billion people in a debt spill for permission. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u47	A respectable president. It's all right. A senator mentioned winter service. Of course, there is concern that she has been limping. We've been trying to win that down lately, and we'll have to do it in the near future. I think the service schedule for winter services will just increase. I think there will be no one who trusts to reduce his service there. It's no joke making plans when it comes to winter service. That's how we live in Iceland. That's how we do it. But I'd like to keep it in the light of a discussion of winter services that the very best funds for winter service are due to the solidity that runs out of the capital. It is very expensive to keep the Smokey Way open, which it must, of course, be, and other strains out of the capital. I think it's good to keep that in mind because it often wants to happen, so when we start talking about winter services, people start talking about mountain roads and people far away. [[The president calls.]] The fact is, however, that perhaps when people start thinking about it, the big amount of money needed to be administered to them flows out of the capital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u48	Madam President. It's getting a little northeast talk. I just wanted to talk to a minister about some aspects of the transport program, which is far too late. Of course, if you are happy when it comes out, then, as we have seen, there is not enough money that comes with it. That's a priority. Farmers in many parts of the country, like the highest level. A minister knows and has likely received a table for himself too, calls for this to be one of the important priorities, health, and transportation. I'd like to ask the Minister. Now fuel or oil prices have dropped considerably. Had it not been possible to push the cash aside on that basis, i.e. without price for consumers and state funds? What does she think about that? What you see here is that this share in the roads is hardly enough to keep up with prices, seems to me, what is being proclaimed here. I'd like to ask her about it. When the last transport plan was submitted and we discussed it, the funds, including the money, were asked. Set the income and the other things. Then the minister said that she had decided on this occasion, i.e. how the budget had been demeaning the road on the basis of the switch, how to start work on this particular point, and it would not be done on the basis of the State Department of State rather than on the basis of financial cooperation. I'm asking you, was that done? If so, where is the job now? I think it's very important that we focus on the markets that the road structure has to do with income.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for entering this scene. The amount of money the thought was always going on the market, I think it will be 8 billion on what it is and what it is then. It's a natural discussion that you have to deal with the Ministry of finance and other people. The United Nations knows that there have been differences in views about the market income. In fact, this discussion is now out of date because of the public financial laws. The work I referred to a year ago started and is going on. I expect we'll get to see something in it by the summer. At least I think it's with other existing suggestions - we're aware of the proposals that were expedient during the Ministerial period of the day. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. It is good to remember that there have been some activities and good materials to continue with the way we want to finance the transportation system. I'd like to add that even if a 12-year plan is considered a long one, sometimes I'd like to say, " Why don't we just look 50 years ahead? ' I know why. The senator asked nothing about it, but I have to somehow come because it may well be that we need to watch what needs to be done here and discuss whether we can make sure that we put a double highway system in certain areas, whether we will ever be ready to talk about it knowing that it will not be until a while. Certain areas of the highway system are that there is a greater reason for roads. Or should we begin to discuss whether the roads can be extended to at least the shoulders on them? The tourist stream is so great, and we know it's only a stop on the middle of a highway. Should we begin to discuss how we can respond to it, even though we know that it will not be in this schedule and it will not be in the next period of prophecy? [[The president calls.]] Is there reason why we should go further up as we discuss transportation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u50	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I can totally agree that plans in our infrastructure should be for a very long time. When we talk about our resources or our nature or anything else, I think it's very reasonable that we think in the long run. The same applies to the highway system, which links us all over the country. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, that would be very wise. We know conditions that can be improved, whether double or something else, and even away from the tourists. I agree with that. Now we face the fact that it is negative bound to our own money on the roadside of the road. V.E.G. A minister quoted the new law on public economic wrath, and I would like to ask her if there is something that will be cut down and summarized, comparable to that. And there's one tiny little thing in here for the rest of it. On page 18. 51 points out for additional funding for 2016 that there is a review of road improvements due to moving to a skiing area in Siglusar land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to know what it takes, because here are some fixes on the Tinastol Road, or is there anything on it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u51	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator asks if it will happen. This case, with the skiing area in Sigluvær, is complex. Like what? A senator knows, but I'd like to inform the Senate, have to move a ski lift, and then we'll have to come up with a new path up to the elevator. There is also disagreement on who should pay for the ski lift. I know that some people want to mean that this is such a situation not to go to the fund that is in this country, which is intended in another country. That's where I think there's a shield somewhere, that part of it. The rest of the road remains. I've still wanted to connect it, so let's move the elevator, and it's a natural road to the elevator. This case is tiny, like the chicken and the egg, we wanted it to come out here. But we haven't found the rest, we don't know if the chicken or the egg is before, or if they can travel there so that you can ski on Siglusar.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u52	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to miss the practice of saying something about a road program and discussing it. What happened in my brief answer earlier, in the tone I spoke there, was dissatisfaction, concern over the small amount of transport money being given over the transport program. True, much has been done and done. I've said before that I think we've hit Iceland record in the year of collapse and the years since on transportation. True, it was good for the modern travel minister to be guided by the workforce of the labour market, where much effort was encouraged to give. on transport to promote jobs in the country, creating work and work for contractors, though many left the country and recovered from their assignments elsewhere. Today, we see just how few contractors are offering to do things, the competition is smaller. All of these were good works done, even to create a modern - day mural structure. I can take, for example, arms farms, the Hapkad route to the northeast corner, the road to Raufarway, or a funeral project that has more than worked for, which is always the motive, to increase traffic security and to strengthen the interior of the local structure. I often say, and I don't think I'm at any trouble as a sailing minister or a former transport minister in it, that the settlements now made up of Mountain, Olafurs and Sigurvens, to see what turnaround may have been followed by the opening of the Hinndir tunnels in October 2010. It has become a complete reversal, and I have sometimes said that it makes a difference for the growth and survival of these communities, as well as for many other rural communities. For example, people today have the courage to drive from Isafjordur to Bolungarvík for Bolungarvík, where they have no fear for Oppression and other ways that people never thought they could go on, which were a poor phase of malaria. The time will come when the amount of money to be given for transportation. As far as I'm concerned, what's in this room is too small, although it's exactly what a minister said the districts will do about how to exchange funds. That's right. The procedure in the past government, providing 1 billion a year with a contract to further public transportation in the capital area, was a very good job. I think we're going to see completely today that it's worked. People use public transportation more, which was not unnecessary. But with that in mind, they were not going to have large projects in the capital area at the same time. I stick to the course of this ten - minute talk because it's the same with us senators and the highest. Minister, this is an incredibly short time. I thought about asking for a double period of time to discuss the matter, but I canceled it. I thought there was no need to spend more time discussing it with a previous issue. because of how little you put yourself in. In the southern and southern regions of the New York, Reykjavík, and southwestern corner, the main part of construction is 3 billion in 2017 and one 3 or 4 billion in 2018. At the same time, there are only 200 billion. K. in the north, and I draw attention to the fact that there's a slightly altered setup of this now, of which there's 50 million. K. in the standard non-programming activities that the Road model has to do with research, research, and so on, 100 billion. K. in the security operations of Akureyri, likely to change traffic signals that can hardly be seen, and make them bigger and more visible, and then 50 million. K. In the glacier, on the mountains, and in the river Shiverpool. 200 million. K. Total. The following year, i.e. In 2018, it drops to 150 million. K. A respectable president. To put this into context, I think that it would be enough to build a mile and a half of a mile of new roads this year. That's all. There are many tasks waiting, such as anywhere else, and so can be said of the east, if I allow myself to keep talking about the territory I know best. There, though, is only a little more money given, or 1,430 billion. K. 2017 and 1,820 in 2018 I make it sometimes to talk about something else, and I can totally cross to the western side, to the Western Sea, because I agree with the emphasis presented here, there's a real need to come in there with a lot more force than I've been done so far. On the other hand, I say that in the transportation programmes I was not on funds for that area. The operation of the Gufu Valley. We know the sad story. It was reportedly lost and lost in the Supreme Court because the current environmental minister who ruled in this case could not take traffic precautions into account. When I read that judgment, it was the only thing who made that decision. It wasn't the water exchange in Stefuna, nor was it The Crimson, no, it was not that it was or was carried out as such but this point. Now this much has been changed and is in a formal process, and hopefully it will end in a way that the road is allowed to start, not through the tiger forest, but above it, and according to the formulas that have been inserted so that there will be minimal ease in the area, in other words, that all materials will be driven, but not taken in this delicate area. Fortunately, this year is 2017 and 2018, and hopefully it will be through and allowed to do so. There is much more to talk about on the West. This is where plans are put in to create the necessary performance of the Dovenninghön. Of course, if you plan to enter a petal tunnel, and it has been shown to start in 2017, and work half a year there, it is necessary to build up auddersheh because if it is unable to walk for several months a year, it could be five months and no one drives them around. This project is spoken of as costing 4.5 billion but only 850 billion. K. spent some time in 2017 and 2018. We can see from this passage, along with what I can name from my district, various projects there, that this is far too small. A respectable president. It's part of the problem that the market of the road type income has not been maintained in GDP. I read the Roadmaker's report and urged senators to examine these data because they are a wonderful, annual report for each year. I have the 2014 report, and it says that if the income stocks had kept or the prices of gas and oil rise to a level that was supposed to be not being given 15 billion dollars. In 2014, it's 21 billion. It was 6 billion. It's a little strange that once we've raised the charges on gasoline and fuel, finance ministers have usually done this, so it's only on the part of the pay that flows directly into government funds, not on those that are supposed to be maintained or built up by the national road system. This is what we're facing and must begin to realize. I say in my own due respect, a respected president, that lately, by the 75% reduction in global oil prices, which is one of the major factors in economic recovery in Iceland, along with the growth of tourists, there would be room for the road to get more out of fuel and oil tax than it gets today. Then we'd have, me and the highest. Minister, be glad to have more money to play on a major national project. Whether it is new in certain areas, it is no matter whether it is new to achieve road repairs in 2016 instead of 1950 or 1960, a winter maintenance that has increased because snow is smaller and much higher, plus road maintenance, which truly decreased during the fallout years because we were more involved in recent development, or increased erosions with large numbers of tourists and more traffic around the land. A respectable president. Everywhere we come, we're gonna get more money in. This would have been the quickest way in my opinion, and if it hadn't been possible after the massive global reduction in oil prices today -- which is still being confirmed, the more successful oil fields at OPEC don't agree on production limits, so I think we're going to stay at low energy prices, so that's why the chance to give up and give it more. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's where I point the highest. Ministers are on their way to get more money for road and transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u53	A respectable president. I often hear about this discussion called the job of senators speaking for their people's interests, which is called a ballot. I think it's a title and a wrong word for what's, like, totally my business. The system is thought to make sure that members of the council are in charge of the interests of their clients. A long talk could be given about it in itself and in various adjustments. One of the things I noticed, because my father lives in Sigludar, is how the Rockies of the Earth have changed their lives on the sails for the better. Sports are soaring as I can see it now and other rural areas around them are expected. I think it's a little important to keep it going. I'm a senator for Smoke. n. and w. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller is a member of the Northeast. "The Honorable District. So I'm interested in any way that a tunnel can change life for the better, and especially how it works. A senator believes that there is a set of priorities for these matters. Because while a tunnel is generally good at my opinion, an analysis must always take place, which I know is well. A senator is very concerned. But I'd be interested to learn more about the districts of which. A senator about where he would see the most necessary or best to install a tunnel, where such devices could help, or even save, communities. Anything at all. A senator can tell me in that regard I will be very carefully listening.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u54	V.E.G. President. I agree completely with what's being presented in a transport program to show that an animal tunnel will be the next tunnel. It is foretold that construction will begin in the middle of the next year and then be accomplished in full force six months and six months from now and that great construction will be completed. But what I told you earlier was about Doubndish. Then there is a chapter that we sometimes talk about. In my opinion, there are two to three rural communities in this country that are not yet properly, permanent, and modern road improvements, that are the Sufficiency that has to be connected with a tunnel and the southern part of the West, which is then carried out on the south side of the West, and I made a subject of the better-bevened Gufundals Company. When they finish, I think we can be very proud of the road system to all urban areas in the country. Hv. A senator asks me about it at Hinder Straitholes, because I made it a subject of the past, and the reversal that has occurred in the rural communities after the tunnel was opened in 2010, which is actually like black and white. The building law is taking over. This may well be the best example of enforcing, so to speak, about what the state should do, about building wood, then comes the private enterprise, and the business life, and then comes the end of it, and the people. You're absolutely right. But because. At times, a senator drives through a bad path through the so - called public population, where there is a great funeral, I believe we have to think for many years ahead of time, as the Minister of the Interior said. That is why I, a respectable president, and it may be nice to say under these forces, that in the next few days, I and many other members of Congress will offer a pact proposal that the Road Building will initiate research and opinions on the future link from Sigludur in the River. There are, as I have seen, small sweet tunnels up to 4.7 miles on a 10 miles [10 km] road, that is, in fact, carried out at 7 billion that we'll think in the near future, 10 or 15 years or something like that, I'm not going to judge about it. [[The president calls.]] It would completely change the area there, and then it would complete the transport and repair of the Grinch to further strengthen the area and rid it of this difficult and dangerous way of life on the public. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u55	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a four-year transport plan for 2015-2018. I wanted a short talk to review a few points, but I would like to start by describing my delight in the fact that a policy of transportation has come up and goes to the local council for material treatment. I'm going to briefly review the projects involved in the district in which I work and discuss them. Also, I'm going to come up with projects on the Sunway, which is a little discussed in this proposal and on Kjalarnes if there's any time. Although neither the Sunway nor the Kilines are within the Northwestern district, recent figures show that traffic from Acdéri and neighboring rural communities through the Halfland tunnel and south is almost 2 of you. Cars all over the place every day. Many people go to work in the capital city, from Aranesp and neighboring communities to school. I'm going to start a little bit about Vestístan Road, but, as most people know, there's been a lot of uncertainty over the way you can go to the Vestísfíðar Road for the planned roads in the area of Odol's neck and Hotnecks because of the Tart Forest. How positive it is to see that funds are made that can be fixed through the Vestafjörður Road No. 60 and they're looking for it. This uncertainty has lasted too long and has an impact on rural society and southern West settlements. It is too often that we hear news about individuals who cannot get with value from south and west or from West and South West. This is of importance for those living there for the development of tourism and continued development of transport services in this region and for the bettering of this road. I wanted to reflect on my speech, due to the uncertainty that has been about a chapter around the Chef Forest, I wondered if the section of the way of reconciliation could be extended, i.e. to cross the Faults and the Deep Offgrounds, so that the West, mostly south of the West, would be released sooner by the neck of Indurs, could be started with an invitation as soon as possible. Once the conclusion and agreement were made, the mission could be resumed. This is an idea I wanted to include in the discussion, but it is important that some part of this chapter get started. Of course, we should not forget that there has been great improvement in Vestfjordur Road. The route has been cut short, and a difficult chapter has been fixed, where there was a serious danger of internal tides. It's really good. In addition, I see in this suggestion that the budget is estimated at a Björn French neck and a hunting necklace, and that's very good, because the way in there is often difficult to deal with. I'd like to mention that it has been called Aarnesfjörður and in a region that has been consulted because of the road construction, there are those who know the best conditions in the area. I know that's been contacted. It's a pleasure to be on schedule and to be the next tunnel we go to. We have opportunities for employment on the West, but south and north are as far away as the islands of the year. Therefore, it should be noted that the animal tunnel is on schedule and that, at the same time, it is due to pass through the Dufindian. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller referred to it earlier in his speech that there's nothing to go on animal tunnels if we don't find out about the Dome Empress. How important it is, then, that the Domindian Way be fixed at the same time! In addition, I would like to wonder if there would be an additive effect if they were taken to an Eelfjörður tunnel following an animal - field tunnel, and they would take advantage of the instruments in the West, and if it could even be savings for the State to go to them for the rest of their lives. There are funds in the plan for avalanche protection of the spray bay. I just wanted to think about it in that brief speech. I cannot help but rejoice over the resources available to these areas, since many Westerners have waited for a very long time to see that the emphasis is placed on that area, and high hopes are in order for these projects to be realized. I need to take advantage of the little time I have left from my speech in discussing that the proposal involves searching for ways to finance the Dizziness Way with the introduction of private clients. In this context, I would like to mention a council proposal that I made in the fall and read her sounds like it, with the permission of the Supreme Court. President: The Council of the United States concludes to hide the Minister of Ministers of the Interior to initiate discussions with Reykjavíkurburg, Mosfellsville, rural areas in Western countries, the Road of Transport, transport, and other relevant bodies on the necessary west-land roads. In discussions with the above parties, there will be a joint effort and strategy for projects in the coming years on the West Sea Road via Kjalarnes, a proposed Sunway, and how to deal with increasing traffic in the Havenavroads. Follow-up of interviews will provide a time-to-date strategy for the implementation and funding of these projects. Now that it is, and it probably has not passed by anyone that there are often loud voices about it among the peoples of the Hahlfjörður, a neighboring community, that they feel that they are called taxation due to roads on the Halfland tunnel. So I'd like to say it's very important, if the private people come up with this project, that if they make a payer, they'll be modest. This is a fixed currency and cost to the rural population and those who go to work in capital or school living north of the Hahfjörður, where this is the only way out of the capital, where the fee is paid for those who go back and forth. In this context, I would like to wonder if there can be some counter measures in this regard. Then, by the permission of the President, I'll present to the council a proposal I've made to the highest degree. Economic and economic Ministers will provide the General Parliament for the legislation on the change in income tax laws that provide long distances to and from work within certain designated national sectors, a discount on income tax. This is an idea that has its roots in including The northern countries, working from the model that it is important to look to such factors in the matter of currency, especially one way out of the capital, which includes the cost to a certain portion of the country's population over the rest of the population. But I'd like to welcome the fact that a transport plan has come up, hoping that it will receive good material treatment in this regard. A committee she goes to.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her talk on the transportation program for the ten - minute program we have, Arnardóttir Eagledótttir, a member of the Northwestern Parliament. Naturally, it focuses most on the area she comes from and knows, which I like, and the rest of us listen and so forth. I can totally agree with a lot of things. A senator spoke of, of private projects and currency that are related to the way the Norwegians have been doing for many years, to have the difference between whether the road is in the capital area or in the country in terms of the cost of public involvement. Sadly, that ended during the last term and was not done, in my opinion, because several platoon leaders did not have the courage to support that idea. It would be different today if it had been done. But that's enough. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator. She's celebrating a trip to the Animal Straits and then talking about the Dollings and all that and what I talked about, which are little funds to take over in this strategy period. My question to why. A senator is quite simple: is. A senator pleased with this means of transportation? She will support her, or she will feel that the committee has to make up for a considerable improvement before coming to a future.?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u57	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for the counter-sponsor. It was right that the senator spoke of in his opponent's voice that I rejoice in planned projects, including those of the United States. ... ontheWestlands. Will I support this suggestion? Yes, I will support it because in the motion we will see that there is going to be major projects, including In the district I come from. These are projects that people have been waiting for in most places. Of course you do. You always want to see more. But here I feel that important steps are being taken in important transport improvements, including correspondent in the Northwestern district, and I will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u58	V.E.G. President. Compared to what happened. One senator says that she is happy with the plan as it is and that within the board there will not be any struggle to gain additional funds, we are confronted with the action of the Gufudal Squad, if approved, in 2017 and 2018, which is uncertain, as it is in the plan, how much this will cost. Then it's 2019 and later that coin comes in to finish it. I don't think that's enough. As for Daring Bearh, and what. According to one senator, it is estimated that it will produce 4.5 billion, whereas only 850 million will be spent in 2017 and 2018. At least 3.8 billion are needed to complete the task. It says that a few years will be the end of the Daguendir project, if an animal tunnel program is going in such a way that it will be opened only on autumn days of 2019, if it was given and given more than 3.5 billion that year to complete it. I say for my part, because I've got far more ambition for what needs to be done and I've talked about what has to be done on the West, but it's certainly been pursued for a number of reasons, including. Supreme Courts and other items I've made for publicity, that I would not be happy with that, and as a member of the management team, I would be fighting for greater transport plans. There really is need for it, as I have pointed out. What's done on the West is about to begin, but it's priceless.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u59	V.E.G. President. As I said in my previous opponent, you always want to see more money on a project, but as I said, I like the steps we're going to see. We see that we are going on a large task that has been waiting for many years and that has not been done. We see clear evidence of not having that assignment, and I have no faith in anything other than the completion of my assignments. This plan covers 2018, and there is funding in it to 2018 for their projects. So I have full faith that the projects will be completed and financed. I trust each other. The environment and transport committee for good work, and they all believe that they are. Councilmen working there put forth effort to make needed improvements in this proposal so that it can be as good as possible. We will see how the matter will be turned into a second passage. to the Hall of Congress. I am happy to see the steps we are taking, and I have heard joyful voices in many parts of the world with these assignments being on the move. I have strong hopes that they will become reality and be smart.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u60	Madam President. I also plan to participate in this brief discussion on the transport program at a time. I've often wondered why such a big deal is actually getting so short of time for discussion, and putting it into this form, why it's not just traditional that longer discussions are about transport plans like other big plans. But I have to say, as noted here, we who are part of the smaller part of the council are not at peace with this plan, and think it's pretty dreary and a little better, I think, but the one laid out in the last spring. I would have liked, as I said to the minister earlier, to see that the oil prices dropped, and others could come in here to increase, among other things, the money marketd for the Vegas. V.E.G. A minister answered only a portion of my question the second time, but the situation is, of course, that we are not fully working on the new laws on public finances, they take value in certain steps, and some market income is incarcerated, and others are not. The road has been made with what is called negative bound to its own money. Now I can't exactly remember how much it is now, but it's a question of whether the road will have to be paid by diminished donations or whether a government decision will be decided that it will be canceled. That's what matters. The minister himself mentioned the winter service that we know only grows and grows and is often more connected to the region than to the capital area. I liked it because I think it's mostly local council members that complain about the snowstorm, it's as if there's so much money on it. Admittedly, a lot of money goes through snow or snow, but it is a minimum requirement to make the road open a little regularly so that people can go to service because it has been made very central to a very pure number, whether it is health - care or something else. This increases the demand that our transport system be properly run. As I said before, it's what the local authorities have been talking about to us when we've gone to them during the election days and after we've got it to the Board ofment and other things, the main thing's been to get these things back. As I said, it's mostly three, it's the health system, it's the transportation, and it's the beacon or whatever else it could replace him to save those connections. This makes sense because people who live in scattered areas experience firsthand the importance of having these things okay, and the situation is quite different from that of e.g. in the big capital area. It's that simple now. But I only wanted to talk more, so I return to the marked income, that they have not increased to the level of prices. What the road has been discussing with us on the budget board is that all its contracts are bound to prices. Of course, it is shocking when one person is bound by such a payment but may not be able to compensate, which, of course, means that he has to reduce work projects somewhere else. Also, I wanted to come on the flight, but there is talk of raising domestic donations, which is mainly to meet congregations at a low level, and the ministry changes very little. There has now been a considerable debate on domestic flight, and this was a group that thought that the transport program was not the last or the last one, meeting the requirements, or what I'm going to say, suggestions there to improve people's facilities throughout the country. We've heard striking numbers in people, especially in Eastern Europe, I would now say, and possibly in the West. For one thing, the Aussicians have been diligent to make comments about this inhibiting people's ability to use part of the central service I was talking about earlier and then just to communicate, and so on, because flying is so insanely expensive. Of course, flying is supposed to be part of the public transport system both in price and condition. Like others, I have to express my frustration that projects are not finished. That may be what we are facing when money is provided for transportation, and the accumulated problems are so great. It is worth remembering that it also takes a lot of money to postpone so much of what is being done, in construction, and in maintenance, and in all of that. The emphasis has been on paying off government debt that is fine, the most emphasis may have been placed on it, but it is a question of whether it could have been done more slowly and applied to the interior because it may save money to the length of not postponeing certain projects. V.E.G. A minister said 50 years in advance, and that's exactly what I think we have to do, to look ahead. Now we have some pleasant facts that are, of course, the tourist growth, but in contrast, we have infrastructures that do not hold that number at all, and all the small cars and all the large buses and everything that drives around here is quickly important. Then there's a situation difference between the areas. Come on, you're gonna get a smart shot now, and there's gonna be a chapter to be left. This is one of the things I put yellow when looking through the plan. It's somehow so we don't finish anything. We always put some smartass in here and there because we want to be at peace with as many people as possible. Most likely, this is the way of thinking rather than simply trying to take larger steps or to put more money on certain projects and to complete them in a shorter time period. Of course, making such a decision is just a political decision. There's a lot of pressure now, because I've been agreeing with what's been discussed here on The Dollings and Animal Straits. I am very pleased with how we have been able to keep our cards on the soiling of Iceland in recent years, we've had it in such a way that one tunnel replaces another. But it is also important not to drive directly onto some old dirt road that follows making them nice and nice. That is one of the things we need to be on guard. Now that I've forgotten what I was going to end up with, it's just as it is. But in itself, I think I've come to most of the things I wanted to say in this first mess while watching the big movie. Yes, I wanted the rest to say that there's a lot of pressure, that's what I just started to say before, and I read it on the front of the morning paper last that there had been a case with someone in the budget about the campaign's auction. I see that in this program, it has been decided not to stress it now, and I'm only worried that there's some way to push it through with some backseats. I don't agree with the plan, that such a thing is done, and I ask the minister when she'll take up the discussion afterwards if she would support it if it happened differently or in some committee or such. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u61	V.E.G. President. Like the rest of this discussion, I'd like to be glad that this council arrangement has come up. I will spend my time discussing the territory I know best, the Southern District. Then I'm going to put into practice some ideas that are very close in time. I'd like to start with this process of transportation, especially this process that goes through the General, which I like to roll up and would be good if anyone would talk to me about. Thus, this program begins with a transportation plan. A national transport board is wide and wide; it gets emphasis on national and rural organizations, certainly experts, all who want to see the transport Council, have within their part of the Road Building, which has an enormous knowledge of this matter, and then makes a suggestion that comes before the council with a minister's approval, making up the proposal we're dealing with. Then we will discuss the suggestion, and we will tell them what we think. Then the case goes to the committee. Then we may call all these same visitors back to the meeting and get their view of what to do and what is to be done well in the plan. Perhaps something has been missed or may seem to be a reason to add. Once we've settled this on the committee I'm on, the Environment and Transport Committee, usually with certain changes that add to the budget, the process here at the council is not finished. Then the case will be conducted by a body board and a financial hearing, and as we saw at the last council, the legal committee made more adjustments. I wonder if there's anything that can change this aspect; that we senators are in two committees changing this professional piece of paper, I want to say, so we can do it somehow more systematically, and that we're not always doing one thing and one project at the council Hall. Then I'm thinking of a frame plan, that a road plan could be a list, a list of numbers, and then the council would decide how much money goes into it, and then it would be cut to the list. I'd also like to see that we don't put our money in this list without having all the resources involved. I welcome the emphasis the Minister now announces to add 3 billion more years to 2017 and 2018, next year and next year, and especially a billion in maintenance; therefore, I celebrate immensely. But the idea of this process I wanted to throw up here before the council in order to discuss and own in writing. V.E.G. President. I thought I had more time, but I have to give another talk. I'd like to use my last few minutes to discuss a particular vision that I've just mentioned. These are so - called self - driving cars. There is very little time for such automobiles to be available for the public. I know that late last year, a self-driving car drove around Iceland. Of course, he did not know all the signs. For example, he did not know how to drive through a phone morning. But this car had artificial intelligence. After driving a few times through a phone morning with a driver's help, he learned it. After a series of times, the car could also drive through the phone mornings. Those who are working in this sector and who are familiar with it say that the technological development in these areas is quite rapid and is much faster than we can imagine. EuroRap is mapping the current road, which is useful for self - driving cars, so that they can understand surface labels and even read signs. I can see that self-driving cars could become a new public transportation system, that there were enough cars in the system, electrical cars in the smart system. This has been evaluated in KPMG for a city in Australia and Götaborg in Sweden, i.e. the practicality and the size of the economy. It seems to me, of the evidence, that this will suit the size of the capital area well and possibly Akureyri; but at least the capital area. So cars are no longer cars. They would turn out to be like smartphones on wheels because they would talk to one another. If one car in a row slows down, all the other cars will know. True, things have to happen before such cars can drive to the streets of the city, and I think that is no later than now to consider. 5G technology is a key factor in the ability of this communication system to occur and it is very short until that technology comes. There is also a need to update legislation, including the law. traffic laws, personal information figures, and so forth. I encourage Congress to examine this matter with an open mind and to see what other countries are doing in these matters. A great number of automobile producers are looking at this technology around self-employing cars, and a lot of the technology is in a certain kind of system - the car lays in your space, all kinds of aid tools are here, slows down, and even senses other traffic. A respectable president. I have less than one minute now, so I don't think it takes me to start a new paragraph. I get to speak in another speech below.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u62	A respectable president. I have the same problem. A senator, and his speech has a short period of time. I would've wanted her longer. I found it very interesting, and he went on to things that we haven't discussed much in connection with the transportation program, and there are auto - driving cars, electric cars, and similar items that we should be discussing more. I thought I'd be the first man to discuss them later, but I intend to give a talk about the electric cars and the new Pirat's release policy. I wanted to hear more from what I heard. A senator on how he envisions that the process can be added to the process of transport. It's no secret it's a political foundation. The proposal does not contain any unusual terms, since, of course, it is the job of senators to protect the interests of their clients. However, it would be better and less trouble in general, I think, and in political terms, if there were some professional process around the process of transport. While there are professional factors and professionals involved in the matter, in the end it will always be very political, and it will be appreciated when they see national Parliaments arranged on the rosary for a discussion of the transport program in the so - called ideal budget, which I don't believe to be a good word over the fact that members of Congress could be of interest to their clients in the process we're working on at the same time. But I would love to hear ideas. A senator about how to improve, and taking more of the politicians out of a transport program, if I understand why. Rather, it is won by a senator who may be more on the basis of equal and professional views than it seems at least when it comes to the ultimatum of the members of the Parliament and the Senate interests of its candidates.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson opportunity to discuss this further. My ideas aren't fully developed, or I'm not prepared to offer any cronous suggestions. I'm calling for conversation. My exit point in this is transportation safety. We have set flights in such a way that it is unacceptable for us to see someone die on a flight. We have made trouble at sea, and it seems unacceptable to us that someone dies at sea. I think it's time for us to work our way in that we also feel unacceptable that someone dies on land, that someone dies in car accidents, or in traffic accidents. One thing that has been mentioned in my ears is that the politicians often tear apart or try to break up the job. The political may be trying to influence whether you use a smaller coin to make it 2+1 instead of 2+2, just for example. I don't think that's supposed to be our discussion. We are not supposed to give a discount on our safety because we may be able to take this road to this place too, beat off the demands in one place, and replace it with a small pinch. That's how I'd like to approach this discussion, that the safety was number one, two and three, and we didn't put money in this way because we're getting it, and so many votes for it, but they'd go by where the need is the most out of a security policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u64	A respectable president. I must agree, and we must agree, certainly. I wondered how much self - driving parts in the future could be involved in making traffic dead. I find that very exciting for the future. I've always had my doubts about computers because I've been working so long on them that I've learned not to trust them. They sometimes say: Never trust a computer that you cannot throw out the window. Well, that's another story. I wonder what. A senator can help us learn more about how far such projects are going and how much if anyone, they come to reduce the risk of driving. You would have thought that if self - destructive cars have gone well enough, they can handle the human problem, which is complex, and is characterized, even. Just poor judgment at a bad time. There would be something computers should be able to work out, assume, if you teach them the right way, and if technology develops well enough to take us to a place where we can have fatal traffic. It would be great if this would lead us there. But I'd love it if I did. A senator can help us learn more about how he plays a self - driving role in making traffic dead.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u65	V.E.G. President. I thank you for sharing what I have studied in these matters. Those who design these systems and automobiles say that the answer is definitely yes, it will reduce accidents. First, it's because the cars talk. Then you can mention something else, and the most serious accidents happen when traffic lights fail, when something happens with them. I can see that they could be part of this system so that the cars would know if there's anything wrong with traffic signals. 99%, plus/minus, I don't know how many more serious, serious traffic accidents are due to human error. The cars have grown perfect today. I don't know how much time it takes for us, whether it comes to first generations of self-employing cars, to be content with traffic security, that we can say that death will be one of a million cases, or I don't know what criteria we're going to set for ourselves. This is something I think the council will discuss. One pragmatic thing I learned in engineering is that the speed of the driver's response to or what happens on the road is 2.5 seconds. At 90 miles per hour, it's 60 meters. At that time, it's clearly possible to shorten, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. We're sitting together. Environmental and transport committees and where they have had a view of themselves. A senator took a turn in his talk and responded. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, on the road safety issue. This is where the number of deaths in traffic that are truly too high for us. And as far as I can see, the number of seriously injured traffic victims is concerned, and as far as I can see, the growing percentage of tourists in that number is concerned. So I want to ask you why. A candidate on the emphasis that is placed on a road safety program on the preparation of study material and information presented to foreign drivers and the Homepage of the Association. Counts 'em out. A senator's work is enough to handle such matters? Likely, he will answer it so that you can always do better, that's a classic answer. But I think it's a really big subject for us here with a growing number of tourists. Maybe we're not thinking enough about it. I would also like to mention only what was presented in my dealings with you. Senators just now to care for the interests of their candidates. I don't think there's anything to speak about, because it's our natural job to look out for a good transport system all over Iceland; not just in our own votes, as is often discussed, because it has to do with the interests of the whole community. I come to the second part of my questions in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Svavardótti Svavarsdóttir for the questions and her answer here. My answer is that you can always do better. It's always possible. I think it's getting to a good job at a Grouping Agency in reaching out to foreign tourists. Still, we see serious accidents, especially in the southern district. As correctly mentioned, we may be focusing too much on the number of the dead. I have considered only the database of accidents of severity, and I think that it is impossible for senators to sort out the benefits of this information, other than what comes from transport and experts. I'd rather we make jars, if I may use that word, which is least in a plan like this. Looks like this plan is being handled with the biggest projects. I also agree with what others have said that, of course, you want to see more money. I'm gonna let myself remember here, because. A senator is opposed to me, her proposal for exfils, or stops for tourists. I think it would be very helpful to put that sort of thing out. Yet, people will always stop in different places. [[The president calls.]] I remember one spot in the Skilet log; there was a tourist in a snowstorm, stopped in the middle of a hill, no outsider could have saved him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u68	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's comments and especially for bringing attention to a Senate case on theures of the Road. I think that's an incentive for us to consider this case on a committee where it is now. I think we should take a look at it, because it's a good thing, and maybe it's a parapolitic thing. I'd like to ask you what. But I understand that on the highways there are more than half of the bridges and their average age of bridges for about 50 years. I want to ask you why. Senator on this. This is a very important road safety issue, and especially when we have increased numbers of people on the highways that simply don't know how to handle these things, such situations are very different for people who may be accustomed to highways in other communities. Then I want to ask you what. A senator on the environment. There's a very small chapter here, which I count to be one eight lines on the page. 70 in a report on the environment programme. One of our largest initiatives in reducing greenhouse gas emissions is transport, and this will only bring about a change. A senator said about electrical vehicles and ecosystems and greenhouse gas emissions. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he does not think we should, although this time it is not necessary to tempt him in the near future to evaluate such programs as a transport program in the light of the Paris Convention and our goals for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for large but very basic questions. I would have liked to have taken more time to answer them, since they are important. I have had a special interest in simple bridges, and I will admit that it is disappointing not to have more to eliminate or reduce them. I will not, though, belittle the need to put money on the break of the 6th year bridge. I'm here with the number from the Road Building that 39 singles of bridges are on the ring road. I'll mention it because on the ring road there's a 90-mile-an-hour speed, and I think it's one of the biggest traffics in the road, these one-burn bridges. I encourage the road model to set at least an order of recommendation as it is in the Kambs, which would be the preferred maximum rate; 30, 50, 70. It is understood by everyone in all languages, so everyone knows that danger is on the move. I say three signs because people are driving in Iceland at all levels and they might miss one. Everybody understands these signs. Anyone who misses 70 but sees 30 and 50 knows there's something ahead and that he should slow down. In terms of environmental and environmental trends in such a strategy, I agree that it would, of course, be better if such information subsided. I will welcome all the ideas and increased donations that will increase the share of the electric cars in this program as well as that we are going to try to take part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u70	V.E.G. President. At last, we will discuss a transport program. Here are some things I would like to bring up, natural in hopes of a change for the better later on. First only on ports and ports. Several harbors are located around the country, allowing a glacier to flow to the sea where it is. The best example of this is the land island. It is not clear that there is a large amount of sand that must be pumped from there. The second is the port of the Cape, which is in this program. Then there's the harbor at Kopasker, which I'd like to make for a little talk about. The problem, however obvious, is not recognized there, that in the Öxarfjord, there is a great record of Jackzál on the mountains. There is truly something that needs to be examined, and the government must be involved, for I think we agree that rural society alone cannot live up to the cost of water immersion. So I'm going to ask myself, " Is land island not being closed for a year if the gang of Rangers would have to do something about it? ' There's some percentages there, and I think I'm right, it's gonna be right, that the percentages there are either 40, 60 or 85. But I wanted to raise the question that at the port of the Copaser, there is an enormous testimony in the Axes'Fun of the Multitudes. Because I'm in this area, I'd like to make it a topic called the diamond ring. It's only 0K. next year. It cannot be acceptable to have a 0k, not even a patch as it has been. It's been like this for the last few years that you've been sticking your fingertips on, but now it's gonna go 0K. In this, and no new road from the west valley to the fall of Falls. So a traveler, whoever he is, who is going to leave Fallos in a decent way down to the kennel, needs to drive up to the highways of 1, down to the Lakes band, down to Húsavík, beyond Tjörnes, and out into the Öxarfjord again. Of course, this is not okay. This is a job we're supposed to finish. It is unacceptable that any money that was supposed to go on a rock road was taken into something else and not put back there. Then I'll go up a little higher, into the country. At one time, a coin was placed in a bridge at the Grímbres over the glacier in the Multitudes. I don't know any better than any reconciliation has been made on that project. The bridge of the glacier in the mountains, where there is now a single bridge, was within my mind that I knew best, but now there is no sight. Now there's no new bridge over Route 1 to this place. That can't be acceptable. Now that we've come from Fall Falls, we've been driving through the Mohawk and we're going to drive down to Húsavík. Then I'm going to drive a road that's the least said to a very bad, so-called Silicon Road, which was at its time on schedule but for some reason, I don't know if it was because of politicians or officials or because of something else, it just disappeared because of a plan that's not acceptable either. He would certainly need to get into a transport program. If I am going to stop and even run to Akureyri on my way and then drive to Húsavík, I have to cross another single bridge, which is a Shiver Creek Bridge, at the bottom, which is built in 1935. It's built for World War II. It's in the plan for a second or third period, and I'm asking a minister to correct me if it isn't, but it's a project that really needs finishing. And then I'd like to mention the Plain of Melrach. In his day, when men crossed the road across the Holahhrah and the Chaffah, and laid the road through the plain of Melrachak, that terrible road, it grew through it, namely. The number of tourists began to increase greatly. I understand there has even been an increase in the construction of cars in that area, since this road is most said to be decomposed. The minister mentioned earlier in his speech to do something simpler, and I think that if people want to go this way, it would be a very simple way of not being necessarily shoveling up the whole road and finding a new road, they should use only this way, for now everything is really a song out of the road, and as it were, a little bit straight down the road. I think he's fully capable and ready to go. It's quite a simple move. To the flight. It is of particular interest that in a transport program, Húsavík is in either the base grid or not inside the grid. It's not only about him but also about him as an airport outside the grid but also in the base net. I want to know that he's inside the grid. He's not supposed to be out of it, and I'm asking the Minister to correct me if he isn't. When you look through this suggestion, it seems surprising that the least money is made, I have to say that, Northeast standard, that's just the way it is. It's a little special, and it's sort of surprising that apparently the least money is given to that area, to the lost land, to Copakers, and to the Red Sea - men only remember Thord, so some do remember Bakkafjar. This is an area that needs more attention. This is the forgotten northeast corner. But there are indeed fragile places, such as Kopasker and Redfaring. I think I'm gonna close this thing for now and hope that a minister will answer or correct me if I've been wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u71	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. 1st. That's the north side. "As soon as I formally invite him to the council, of course, for a bold speech and a review of the territory he comes from, and went through quite well. It is certainly so that I can agree with many points he made in his speech, such as the one that was about to take place on a rock road. The first part was made in the last government, from highway to falls, and in style. The second part was supposed to be in on a plan of 2,400 million. K. to finish the remaining 20 miles [20 km], but then it happened in the former Minister of the Interior, h. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, that money in which she was taken from the Golf Falls road, and transferred to the maintenance of the dirt road, saying that sheep would come into the next budget, which would be followed by the maintenance of a dirt road that would be returned to the falls road. Now it was not done. It didn't work out. That's why we're wearing patches on Kappus Road right now, like a dog. A senator spoke about, in about three miles [3 km], if I recall correctly, which is likely to end this year. But then there won't be anything there in 2017 and 2018. I'm asking a senator if he's pleased with such a plan. The other point is carried out by Jack thesa on the Mountains and the river Shiver. The long - term plan expected that the Glast has 950 million for the period of performance covered by this short plan, which is released. The same can be said of the bridge on the Shiver River. There would be 430 million in the second period, but it is also released. I'll call attention to what. A senator assumes that Jackzás is in there, and the river Shivering is three times 50 million, but nothing is expected thereafter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then the question is, Has it mattered? 1st. That's the north side. [[The president calls.]] such a schedule that does not expect more than is discussed here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u72	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the judiciary to me, to be here in this torture, 1st. That's the north side. [[As the 1st. That's the north side.]] I know why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller wanted to be happy for a long time, but he didn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u73	No, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u74	Only down the road. It doesn't matter to me when he will be made, but it is obvious that the money that would go that way went somewhere else and that it has not been returned, or whatever way we want to say it. They're not in the place we want, and I think they're going. A senator shares with me the view that, of course, they're supposed to be in that place to finish the Golf Way. That's right. I agree with that. It's almost two miles [3 km], I think, which is going on right now, which is just a Band-Aid. Of course, you're just gonna have to finish this, this Rockless Road, this round road, link the highway 85 to the highway 1. I think we share that completely. I stand here in the very hope and belief that there will be a change. Whether I support the whole conclusion, as I say, I stand here in the hope of a change in this schedule so that, of course, it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u75	V.E.G. President. It's a smart word, to what it's supposed to be. 1st. That's the north side. Rather than supporting that plan as it is available, it needs to step in and it needs to be done. I couldn't agree with that. I pointed out in my speech ways to increase my income for the projects I think are probably about to take on. That's what happened. A senator says there was application procedures in the affected area. It's really a very small patch, it's not a big, it doesn't cover much areas as mentioned, no matter whether it's Fallifos Road, bridges, or anything else in there, but according to the long-term program adopted by 2012, if I remember correctly, there's a slight difference here. This is primarily because the government has decided to intervene in this respect. In discussions about transport plans, and always, the main points have been discussed in the road, road construction, maintenance, and service, and all of that. We haven't even gone into the airports and the docks, but we don't have much access to the docks. I also point out that there are laws to work by which the government was changed into a forward-of-the-art platoon and a unit of independence that would make the rejections sustainable and the state would no longer interfere, I'm not going to be extending to it. I'm glad to hear it. The senator is not going to support this type of patch.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u76	V.E.G. President. It can end so well, of course, that you agree with the resolution, that's why I'm here in the hope that there will be a change. I would have presented these criticisms only because I'm critical of my priorities. I just don't agree with the priorities presented in this transport program and, of course, hope that there will be a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u77	Madam President. This is where we'll discuss a transport plan for 2015-2018; it's been waiting a long time for it. As we have seen, a transport strategy that was submitted a year ago could not be completed, and now we have the document to set the course for the next year, to 2018. Sadly, I must express deep frustration over the limitations of this transport program. You would have intended that, based on the high income of tourists - the tourist sector has become more reliant than the sea route in the country - then there would have been a table that would have been having significant access to transport, social infrastructure. You feel that the priorities of this government are inexplicable, that you will not put more money for transport compared with the urgent and urgent need to strengthen the infrastructure and improve the road system, both to serve the inhabitants of the country and also to meet the large number of tourists driving around the country, which in many areas really create an accident risk. That is why I must initially stress my frustration that no more money has been taken into the task of strengthening transport infrastructure. I listened to a case of the highest degree. Minister of the Interior. I felt in her language that there was a process of transportation to the reality of not getting any more money for this group of paintings. It is, of course, very sad if the fight for more funding for this party has been over, so it was directed to the council that financial initiatives must be shown to put more money on it and to change the fortune when financial laws are available. The fundamental design for this group of 23 billion, the results of which were about 20 billion. In view of their efforts, therefore, you do not even trust that money will follow what is expected in this program. I, like other members of the council before me, am going to examine only the territory of my district, the Northwestern district. That's where I see the animal tunnel inside. Of course, you are happy about it, but you also ask yourself, " How fast will these projects be? ' Will they not be invited out until next year? It's 9 billion. Five billion people are estimated to be present in the EU. There is nothing in the hand, as we have seen in the highest range. Minister, until contractual projects are available, issued, and the contractor has been negotiated. While it's not got the highest. One minister said that these projects were in danger and that they were not safe. You are not secure in carrying out an animal tunnel until the auction is completed and the government has signed. In this regard, the construction of the Daguendian treaties remains, and it indicates that the cost should be 4.5 billion. Based on funding, the next two years are expected to be 850 million. K. on that task. If it is estimated that the 2019 animal tunnel should be completed, then the Daguendir is not ready at the same time, but it remains to be able to use it and to produce the Daguenandi honor so that it can be used throughout the year. Action has been mentioned on the south side of the West. I hope there's an early start, even though there's no final impact on the line in Chef Forest, and then they're being carried out in the Subcontinental Gufudal Squad and starting with it as soon as possible this year. There's a Bear French necklace inside, and it's expected to be completed next year. But the hunting necklace, the project, push into the future. The cost of it is some 700 billion. K. and that's not until 2018, which is 200 billion. K. on that task. We all know the isolation of that area, and it is very bad that it is pushed into the future like this. Northwest District - I think I'm right, where the largest number of miles are in unbound violation. We know urban and other forces, both in the West and in the Northern West, and in the West, and in the West - where there are both one - wide bridges and roads that are not fully covered. Much is said about trying to spread tourists around the country. It is unacceptable that there is no greater funding to speed up regional and network structure and to improve the roads that would make it easier for tourism companies to work and to drag tourists into this area. Time flies on, and I just want to come on top of the budget to the airport. I've just received a written answer from the highest degree. Minister of the Isafjörður for use at Isafjörður Airport and Fleet Airport. It has been defined as a reserve airport for Isafjörg Airport. In response, Theinger Airport has been closed for the past three winters, and in the summer of 2014, only two landed, and the summer 2015 once. The airport has been closed during wintertime because of the damage, the bear - shaped frosting, and only the place could be landed if the load was fixed. It is revealed in the reply of the highest. The secretary of the state that no amount of money is expected, and it is shown in this transport program, on the task of fixing the load of the Fleet Airport so that it can be used as a spare airport. It is believed, and it is shown in the answer, that the power of the Fleet Airport over wintertime could have been used in 91⁄215% of cases when the Isafground Airport could not be hit. This amount of money is completely unacceptable for this quarter. The flight is extremely important and is actually part of the public transport around the area. It affects the tourism company, the job environment, and the population of this area that the flight is as uncertain as it is, and cannot be used in a Thornyard when you cannot land on Iceaf Airport. It's something I feel like I'm going to have to pull over and it's totally unacceptable. So I refer to the administrative and transport committees to consider these points, since these quarters cannot be offered as disloyal as to the extent of their flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u78	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a four - year transport program for 2015◯2018, certainly quite peculiar during 2016. As I have previously stated from this platform, transportation is important and affects everyone. They are the largest community, as well as health, education, welfare, employment, environment, and cultural issues. So improved transport is the interest of most Icelanders and certainly all members of the Parliament. So we would have all wanted to see more money for transportation now as before, but I'm especially happy for the 3 billion more on the plan for 2017 and 2018, if I get it right. I also rejoice that there is a plan here, as well as a great deal of emphasis on her being overstepped at this council. It is entirely unacceptable to allow longer periods of time to pass without a planned plan agreed by the Council on the provision of the funds intended for the construction of transport workers. The fact is that for a number of communities, transportation is a major factor in building up and developing. Without a plan, this inevitably causes anxiety, insecurity, and uncertainty for the inhabitants of these communities. Uncertainty of what lies ahead in transport can often lead to unnecessary social unity. A clear long - term policy on transport is an important feature in a peaceful and united view of the future. So I'm going to reiterate the importance of the removal of the European Parliament's transport programme and agree with it at the highest level. Minister of the state that it is important for Congress to be in harmony with the budget and reality. I can agree with much of what has already been presented in this discussion, and I have a clear understanding of the need for a wide variety of projects, but much less than a few aspects here. I am very happy about the great geologic marches that are now taking place in the Valalauds, and at the end of the Arctic tunnel; they will be expected to be taken into use in the summer or in the fall of 2017. Similarly, I am happy that the animal herd tunnel is in the program, as well as continued funding for research at the Seysterian tunnel, but I would like to refer specifically to the Environment and Transport Committee to carefully review the quantity of funds needed for research on the Marine Lands so that the necessary information must be assured that it is possible to make decisions regarding the continuation of the next EEA's future march. Finally, we see the completion of highway 1 that is expected to take place in the Plains of Bermuda between 2017 and 2018. There is special reason to rejoice, but there is an organization to accomplish this. The aim is then to take place in the Cradle Valley to link up to Oxi in 2018. At the same time, where there is the next road to the ring, I want to call attention to far too many miles of unaltered footpaths on the Shire, the Parliament, and the Eyjafjörður, so that no other roads are spoken of outside the founding roads. Like what? paritaprevir Kristján Möller came into our home today, but one of the rest of the city's coasts is urban. That's not where you can go. He is one of a few urban areas that cannot be taken home without going through maladies. It may be my biggest disappointment in this transport program that they should not be started on treatment until 2018. It is a road that not only serves many tourists but also residents living there. Since malarways are being discussed, there are still a considerable number of farms in many parts of the country, which stand at a high - traffic gurgling gurgle and are constantly dusted all summer. This is one of the things you could make up for without too much cost. Only to one-burned edges. If I go as I go to my house, I'll travel about 40 simple bridges that way, on highways 1 and South soil. It is important to make effort to reduce the number of bridges. You might start by looking at the shortest, maybe, I'd like to direct it to the environment and transport committee to review it; there are also often these most dangerous bridges, since they are very low on them. The water spills are low and low on the edge of the water itself. They are one of 10 or 15 of these in 40 bridges. It is important to build improvements in the safety system, but both the occurrence of accidents in individual areas of the road system and the incidence of accidents relative to traffic weights are to be observed. So I would especially like to mention a road that has actually been done slowly in recent years, but it is the South Sea of Savour; there are still chapters, not so long, where safety could be greatly improved. At the same time, I'd like to rejoice that there is a special way to improve the safety of roads around Akureyri. Public transport is a project that has been under way in recent years. There I believe it is important to watch public transportation in general, ferry, flight, and bus, or bus transport. It is still that public transportation is not around the country, that is one of the important things to correct. Perhaps at the same time, though, the highway will be floundered at the bitter end of the Beufjörður, so that it will also be able to fill the gap in the public transport. I'm very happy that there's an improvement in funding for the maintenance. We have a road system that has been growing in size and traffic weight is growing very fast. For example, in the southeast, the numbers have gone up very quickly just this and last year. The road has defined the need for service from traffic weight to increasing use. This means that we need to provide funds to meet our service goals in line with the use of the system and the needs of the people in order to attend the public service we have organized in many places, in view of the fact that transportation is always there. Other members of the council before me have discussed the northeast corner in particular. I think there's good reason to take it for a special assignment. If we're talking about the northeast corner from Húsavík to Hornfjords, north of Route 1, we're talking about 8◯10% of the total size of the country. This is an area that is very poorly connected with transport, but it may offer a very different range of opportunities for tourism than in other areas; there is travel service so low and the opportunity to organize it in a different way than where tourism has been cared for longer. I would have been like others here wanting to bring in much more in this talk. For example, I don't fully understand the debate that has taken place in the market income, but I think it's very important to do so. The Environment and Transport Committee will consider in their discussion whether there is a chance to increase income which is specifically intended for transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. My question is simple because it is a historical failure of transport. However, she may be sitting on a pair with those who were laid out last year and did not succeed. She's late, like she's at the highest. The minister has arrived in his speech. Right away. The Environment and Transport Committee proposed a resolution of the transport strategy for the right year's treatment, and a greater proportion of them began to make significant changes in it. They are listed in a special document on the proposed changes and also in a special summary at the end of this committee. the majority in June 2015. Because of this, and especially because this is the case, by reason of reason of reason. 1st. That's the north side. The Bogi Hafliðason, that he can't imagine accepting the proposal as it is presented, but wanting to see a significant change, I'd like to ask her why. A member of Parliament, also a senator of the House of forwards and of the same district, the Northeast District, which is a prime example of character. The head of the environment and transport board, whether it is the same opinion, i.e. the need to improve the transport strategy proposed by the highest level. Ministers, even a billion, as was done a year ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir His answer is Svandís's Svavarsdóttir. As I came in, I would have wanted to see more money in this transport program. I still think a lot of things in there are important. I am ready to support this plan, although, of course, I would like to ask for it. It will be handled well by the Environment and Transport Committee to see if there are any possibilities for change. I feel that, as I established at the beginning of my case, it is extremely important that the process of transportation be done and that it lies in the way of time. This is part of the future that we need, whether we are working at it. General, administration or unit level. I feel that it is extremely disturbing for many other projects, many of which are not available and have not been there for as long as it really is. I also think it is important that we watch, as soon as we discuss transport plans, further future, and then review a number of issues that have been tore up today, such as a vision for the construction of jobs on the northeast corner, how we visualize the development of public transportation, and how electrical flux might affect the way we want to build up our transport system. There are so many more things we have to watch, but we have had the opportunity to include in these discussions today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u81	President. Thank you. A senator's answers. There is now, and there has been no objection in this discussion, that there is far too little in total. Economically, this schedule is well under all guidelines, and comparison is nearly at all times adverse. I'd like to pray. A member of the council to confirm my understanding that she is willing to accept this reduce transport plan as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u82	A respectable president. Yes, I repeat that answer. I would be ready to do so, but I still hope that a positive change will come from my perspective. They may not be the same changes that are positive from another person's viewpoint. I'd like to take this opportunity since I've got some time right now and I'd like to come in on an opportunity to ring up. This is one of the things to consider in the context of the development of tourism. For example, there are several opportunities on the controversial northeast corner, which is high in 10% of the whole country, where there are Kappos and Ásundos, the opportunities of using Golfos Road to form a circle connection. But it is also the way out of Melrach Plain, which can form a single circle. Then it is the highway along the coast, from Thors Harbor to the ground of weapons, where there is still an untamed area. As a matter of fact, I welcome special coverage in the program, where it is expected to break down without going to the high level of structural costs, in fact, just structurally based on the calculated traffic scale there. I think there are opportunities to make a great deal of better money without spending the full amount of money. For example, on our travels through the Northeast standard, it has been shown that on the road to the Melnake is a solid foundation that could be made much better by simply putting on a broken surface. I would also like to draw attention to the special interest of members of the Northeast district in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u83	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. Transport is one of the most important issues in our society, one of the things we call basic services, and it's very important to the progress of society in many ways. I declared in this program that transportation is one of the major health issues involved, that it is important to see how much is being done in the medical system. If transportation is successful, we too have more to play for our health. It is important how we carry out our transport plan, how we put our priorities in it, and how we put our priorities on the money we put into it. First, I want to make the project a subject. Rather, we have supported laws on the transport program that determine how it should look and what it should be in. It may be a start, but it's flying, traffic, and sailing. It includes public transportation, ports, marines, security, and environment, all of which are transport. This is a very large group of subjects, so once our transport budget is set, we need to determine how we will use these funds and prioritize them within this large and diverse category. Then there is also a small light in the way transportation is supposed to be done, i.e. Easy transport, economic transport, safe transport and transport are to be environmentally sustainable and contribute to positive development. There are some guidelines on how this should be done. This may be what I don't feel is not part of this discussion here and in what we're doing. We have a four - year transport plan, but a 12 - year transport program is also planned. The 12 - year plan, then, may be more policy development, more apparent to the future needs of each transport method; the situation, the amount of money in the future, and the main projects to reach the goals I went on. Four years of implementation will take place on projects and in the near future. I would like to ask, then, if it is normal for us to be here at the council, after all the hard work that has been done on transportation, and for the members of the local Ministry of transportation - there's a huge analysis work being done to meet these objectives, and beyond these projects - to discuss here at the council whether this road has gone or the other airport is built up or so. Should we not have created a system and have all the information on how we put these projects ahead of the goals I mentioned earlier? I think that's the way it should be, but it's not the kind of person who's boss for his own district or anything like that. At the time of the transport program, the work of the local community, our local members, our citizens, other stakeholders, has been able to keep in touch with these Department of Transport to assess the need and national benefits of the project. After that conversation, I was confident that the transport council will use the information to create this program that we have. I want this future discussion to focus on where it is most practical to implement or maintain. Then I highlight a standard number one in all of this, and that's how I'll watch this document here, and there's traffic security. How do we guarantee security? It is emotionally and financially expensive to live in all the traffic accidents here. The most common fatal accidents in Iceland are in traffic, and it takes the greatest toll. In any other situation in which so many people would pretend in this community, disasters and public defences would be spoken of. That's a disaster when 200 people a year die or get seriously injured, and we have to start discussing this here how we're going to get that figure down. That's why I've been asking the State Department where the most risky pages are and where most of the accidents are. I wait for the answer to the question so that we can establish a set of priorities that can help us to reduce accidents in the transport system. We need to take this into account, all the government agencies, how we reduce road accidents. There is so much to do. It is possible to improve by means of safe acts, by innovation, by meaning, by prevention, by monitoring, by instruction, by improving study, by rules, and by any means. That's all of this we have to do. This is number one, two and three. Of course, we also need to deal with the positive development and economic benefits of making the most of the money and making more money in the community, so that we will have more to support them when society is growing and growing in the economy. Then you need to take it. We need a transparent system so that all these tests and analyses and calculations are available. I have no doubt that this professional process is being carried out by the institution, but it just doesn't appear to us. We don't have these tests, we don't have those calculations, we don't have those numbers in the papers. They are not available. I'm sure the job is based on a professional process, but that's what we want to see. We want to see policy, what's the priority, what's the need. This enables us to set priorities for the extent to which we place ourselves in transportation, health, education, and so forth. That's what's part of the council. We have to work on such rules. That's why I think it's very important - there's one of the positive things about it, it's a lot of positive stuff in this record, even though you can do better - that more is being done in research. This will help us to increase the transparency. Like most members of the council who have brought up these matters, there are so many topics that can be discussed, how the transportation system is prepared for the future, how we organize it in the most practical way, how we achieve the environmental objectives, and so forth. I've decided to emphasize it in my own case right now, how the methodology is about this. That's why I'm not going to talk about some special projects here, or rejections, or transportation or flying or anything like that. That's how I'll look at things at work here. I've come to a number of projects in cooperation with rural society and other stakeholders, in the Vega industry, and will continue to do so. I hope we can start looking at the bigger picture in this discussion. There are many things that I would have liked to see in this transport program, but I feel that, after the previous work, it is difficult for us to begin moving around with such an embellished document and individual projects at a Senate Committee. I hope we can agree here at the council to put the safety of traffic first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u84	I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. He says transportation is the biggest health issue. For that reason, I want to make his words, his concern about traffic security, his publicity, and his view of it. He makes a comment that he might have liked to see more money in this category of traffic security. I just want to get past what's happened. A senator of his ideas on increasing funding for security and his ideas about how these funds would be provided, especially since he is a representative of a bill for a small sale of alcohol in stores. As we know, part of the stories that have been received about that bill is about security. I'm wondering if I'm worried. The senator has something to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u85	A respectable president. I appreciate those questions. There are lots of ways to increase the budget. This is not just the case with transport projects. An engineering evaluation of this was conducted in 2004, prior to launching the current traffic security system, and reviewing all key measures to increase traffic safety and reduce traffic accidents to the lowest rate at which money is accelerated. Four out of five road deaths could be prevented by increasing police surveillance on motor vehicles and drunk driving. Hv. A senator also introduced drunk driving, but an engineering assessment, after a conversation with all stakeholders, was thought to be the most natural way. That's where we're going to replace it. Then we come to a bill about a little liquor deal. This is taken into account; instead of using prohibitions to reduce alcohol consumption and its consequences, it is shown to work and to try to increase money to the police to prevent drunkenness. I worked for the police myself and wrote a paper on drunk driving, that was my final essay in a master's study of law. ALTVR places all its stores on footways because it's easier for people to drive. There are many other ways that I can go through later in order to prevent drunk driving, according to my report.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u86	Thank you. A senator is eager for the information that was revealed in his reply. I'd also like to hear a thought. A candidate for why transport and the necessary maintenance of the transport and road transport system have been able to face a similar amount of money that is actually being shown during this most ideal period and is presented in the most advanced program. Minister. I also wondered whether he was. A council member of the Southern District considers enough money to be used in his own district of transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions again and comes to the finance. What's the reason why there's no more money? I understand that as long as we're up in the community and business, and the career in the big business, it's difficult for the state to get into too much public investment and at the same time while we're doing no better than it's actually showing that we're getting involved in government business. I think it is one of the most important things now that we make priorities so that we can draw our income together somewhere else in government operations or that we can run the State more effectively. Then we will have more time for these important projects. That's one of my things. I'm very happy with a lot of things in my district, but I watch it from traffic security and say, "There's a considerable amount of money up there to ensure adequate implementation in my district to reduce the rate of single bridges faster. In this program, they will have a reduction of four along the way east. It needs to be done much better. Besides it, there's a special budget to reduce the number of bridges that I expect to take on more bridges. Selphoss is expected to separate road policies and road barriers, just as important as Selphoss. It is done as fast as possible. But we've got to finish the Smokeynes Way at both ends, but it's starting to hit Ryjanes Way and Krysavík Road. These are the most important traffic precautions. Also positive is the separation of road policy on the western road, which is extremely important. It has proved true. Since the beginning of the two - ways - in 2004, no one has died there. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, 15 people have died on the Southland and western roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u88	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's speech. I agree with him in many ways and with the way he sets it up. It has also brought my attention to the fact that this transport program is set down in an ideal way. This may be the national Parliament's tournament to obtain financial support for their own districts. I would say that when you look at the projects that have been in other elections, there may not have been too much work in recent years. I also agree with him that perhaps it could be set up in some way differently, in setting priorities, and so on. Hv. paritaprevir Actually, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir took away the question I was going to direct to. In view of the fact that our district, the Southern District, is in our own hands, a senator on traffic security and financial resources. A senator is both in, one of the best traffic possible in Iceland. If we just look at numbers from last year, there were six of the 16 people who died in automobile accidents in our district and a considerable number of foreigners. I'd like to ask him, " How does he picture the coming year in the district, considering that the police are abstinent, and traffic security is very lacking? ' All these monotonous bridges, which are naturally absurdly high, have come up to mention the last accident at a single bridge across the Hólar River. You feel it yourself when you drive in the district that it's just like going on an adventure drive east of mountain. It's just that way. I wondered, " How does the senator foresee that we will be able to improve the safety of traffic during the year that is going through the budget we have? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I'm happy to have such questions because it is my favorite thing to discuss. How, though, will the years to come be? I'm very worried about the year to come. As I described earlier, there is a public defense situation and I know that police officials in our district are deeply concerned about this, as well as in other countries. As I said about the transport plan, the biggest projects in the program are starting and we're seeing the front of those projects. Not everything is done immediately, as it is also because of disputes with landowners and other factors that cannot be started right away, so I also worry about it. It's not just the money that's missing. The main means of transportation that we have to repair in our district is to finish the Smokey Way, the Southland Road, and the monotonous bridges all the way east, the highway in the Hornland and beyond. This enables us to expand our traffic security. Then we are naturally referring to an Aarnes County force, where there is an enormous stream of tourists. There's a way to finish Scorpio and Drunamann Road, and there's a cremation of bridges and roads and build up. But as to how we can react in the summer with the funds we have, I go back to the answer. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, about the police. Already, the government has agreed to a travel network memo on how to expand the surveillance of the police after analysis of the South on traffic levels and how to ensure the safety of tourists, which is the natural security of all road users. This is done by increasing the surveillance of the camps and the inhalations where the single - burnt bridges are and otherwise. I think it is extremely important that a memo be made over the next few days to ensure safety and prevent traffic accidents there in the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. They were good as far as they could, and I agree with him to increase the need for law enforcement. It is extremely important to make traffic more safe. You can feel it for yourself when you drive around the country that if the police are there, the speed is lower and the danger is lower. But I am also aware that this is not enough because our country's roads are almost ruined. It's almost no matter where you drive through the country, the highways in the country are, I'm afraid, in ruins. Hv. A senator knows as well as I, who drives the Smokey Way and Grindavik Road, who is becoming one of the largest roads in the country that this is not acceptable. If there's not going to be a lot of renovations and a lot of money to fix this, then there's going to be a disaster soon. That's what it says. I remember what a senator from the Northeast held to me when he drove the Grand Way in the winter in rain and wind and dark: Wait, how did you do that road every day? It says more than just a few things. It's clear that if we're going to reduce the number of accidents, we need improvements. For example, in 2015 a CIA report on traffic accidents shows that one of the most dangerous and worst roads in Iceland was on the Triangulum Road road. After he was reinvented and fixed, the accident rate broke down. It tells us that we have to put money in order to fix the roads, to make some changes, and now I don't talk about in the South. You can only feel it when you travel around the district and you meet the local government people that this is case number one, two and three of them. There is tremendous traffic up to the Bishop's stings, and throughout the South, there is tremendous traffic that has an excessive impact on society. This must be fixed and sooner than later. We need funding to do that. How can you tell? A senator that we make money in view of the fact that the government has given up on more than tens of billions of dollars that could have gone into this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u91	A respectable president. I welcome the debate here and the requirement of senators to make more funding, and they must respond. Then I also call out that they follow through, that here and in the media and everywhere not only will there be increased health costs, as we have heard, I also want this discussion so far, that there is not just a demand for more money to be given to the state radio, which I prefer to go on transportation and traffic security, I'm just talking about it. We need to take this all the way. I agree with you, this is one of the most serious issues in the world, and we have to prioritize it. Money is limited, and we can't add to the spell, and we just have to decide: Are we going to put this on the TV or any other government agencies, transportation, health, education, development programs - where are we going to put the money? It's all under there. We need to talk about this. Hv. A senator named the Cologne Way and the Smokey Way. That's exactly where I agree. There's traffic multiplying. The number of tourists is multiplying, and fish transport is multiplying on this road. It's been deformed from the beginning, it's just wrong, it's too narrow, and every winter it's more destructive. I don't want to have to be a resident in Grindavik and their senator fighting for this road and telling us how it is -- of course, I'm fighting for the road, but I just feel that as traffic increases like this and the danger increases, this should go on preemptively. There is no need for a ball to fix and build a road for safety of road users, to ensure that one of the largest roads in the country will be safe - indeed two of the largest roads in the country, the fishing route, and the tourism that travel this way. This should be done spontaneously in a professional process. That's how it's supposed to be. There's extra funding for maintenance the projection, more than a billion, and I hope it goes on this busy road and where the need is most necessary. I trust the roadmaker to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u92	Madam President. First, I'd like to be happy to know that the General is conducting a transport program. I've been one of those guys. Congress members who have called for this strategy to be submitted and felt it was very bad that this was a means of dispensing money to last year's budget without an approved transport plan. It made me uncomfortable that the roads and transportation were being taken out without us accepting a decision - making discussion. Of course, members of Parliament have a different view of the procedure. To begin with, I would like to mention specifically the goals set out in the transport program, different policy plans. It has a further 4.3 policy on sustainable transport. I don't think anyone is aware that transport emissions are an enormous part of our fight against climate change. It is a key factor to reduce transport emissions if we are going to achieve the goals that our existing government has written, let alone if we are to set a more radical goal that I believe is really important, which is that Iceland will be non-carbonized in the immediate future, 2040 or 2050, or whatever we can see. To do this, you need to take major steps when it comes to transport disposal. Thank you very much. Minister for staying here because I want to ask her specifically about this. It was concluded in 2011 that I recall the growth of public transportation in the capital area. Instead, it was decided to delay large transport projects, road projects. Part of it is to achieve these environmental objectives. The meeting has stayed, but it is true that you would have wanted to see further improvements in this agreement. If only we look at our rural land, we will be able to reduce transport emissions in urban areas. I think that's the first step. If we are going to take practical steps to take, for example, the electricalisation of our transportation, which I think is something we should take a big step into, the infrastructure is the best thing in the capital area. I'd like to ask the minister if she can tell us what steps will be taken to the electricalisation of transportation. A quick review of the transport program does not make me aware that any funds are planned for this. I'd like to ask the highest, too. The minister that this was adopted a proposal for an opinion of a light - train concordance in the capital area as well as a train link to the Chefvík airport, agreed at the General Assembly, and agreed that the Ministry of the State would consider such structure. The results were to be available in the mid - 2016's, and they could be very close to the target of reducing transport greenhouse gas emissions. This proposal is also completely in line with the newly released regional structure of the capital area, which aims to build up a kind of light - reading system or a speeding system so that we can expand the contribution of public transport in public transport. I don't see this place on a transport plan when we're talking about the south zone. However, it is said of seeking ways to finance a private cartel's Daffway. There's no money on the Sunway. I think this raises questions. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would be able to tell us where the work is to appreciate it. How will governments cooperate with the capital area in changing the pattern of transportation? As I say, these areas actually have the biggest opportunity to reduce transport emissions. It's here that we can really benefit from public transportation and then, of course, a bike and other transportation routes. But knowing what weather conditions are like in this fine country, I don't think we can help us look to public transportation on the other hand and electrical changes in the transport system. We'll see significant progress ahead of us in electricalization, but in order for it to take root in Iceland, the infrastructure needs to be built up. We need structures in the woods, on the other hand, in the urban areas, and on the other hand, across the country. This is what people want, and the demand is increasing for these vehicles. I think there's two things to look at. It is a public transportation in the capital area and their expansion in accordance with the General Assembly agreed on that and in a way that we can change the energy sources. This list lists specific targets for energy sources aimed at reducing the use of fossil fuels and to the use of transport tools producing renewable energy sources. Is there any money, though, to build up these structures? Where are the funds we need to build up wood? If we're going to get serious on climate issues, we're going to have to accept the cost. However, we can be very happy that we have a unique opportunity, a land rich in resources, to do this. We could become the pioneers in reducing transport emissions if we dare to look ahead and invest in these infrastructures, public transportation on the other hand, and electricization. I think this is important for both the capital area but also for the whole and international community and the commitment we have accepted. This is what burns on me, and in view of the big context, when we look at the climate change that, of course, are the big issues we have to deal with, I would have wanted to see the more emphasis on this article. Then I think that's what. The Environment and Transport Committee needs to consider these issues. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who spoke before me, mentioned that it may not be the proper way for us to be considering this, individual voters. I find it important because I am now a member of the city of Reykjavík to mention roads in many parts of the country. For example, I want to name the ring road and the road through Axi. I know that this is a controversial matter in view of the fact that the distance has been submerged, not the ringway that is often closed. But this is a big deal for all the Americans. This is not just a matter of private affairs in the Northeast district, as is the case with transportation in the capital area. I think it's important that we try to approach the whole thing when we discuss the project and what matters. At any rate in this regard, I have found it wise to finish the round and improve the road through Axi. I know there are other viewpoints up there, those who really want to move the road down into the distance. But I feel that this is an example of a political decision that needs an open discussion. I'd like to mention, too, that there are many roads you'd like to see walking faster. I can name a road near the capital area, such as rebuilding on highway 42. Looks like a mile away. You think that it is quite tempting to complete such a small task. I'll give you the number. 48, I mention a four - mile [4 km] chapter on Road No. 30 to complete such projects. How tempted we are to look for ourselves in those pieces! V.E.G. A minister sees that I am very interested in measuring miles remaining in a cut - off layer. We're in a hurry. But there you feel it would be so good to be able to finish some small shot that's left where you drive on a groundcapped road and then suddenly land on some washing board for a mile. We're looking after the safety of tourists. There's a lot of whisks out here. Of course, it has to do with finishing such reforms. Now I don't know how much it costs. Yet, you feel that these are short - lived ridiculers. The last thing I get to say, but no. paritaprevir Of course, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir made it a subject of the above, an animal tunnel that needs to get ahead of time. They are linked to transport in the West in general, which is still the area that we need to examine specifically. I realize there's not an endless amount of money to go on the road, but I want to be a member of the city of Reykjavík, driving all over the West, saying that everyone who goes to see that it matters that we have some perspective. I know that the Westerners have become very long behind reforms and, especially, by beast's tunnels and then by the highway of the Dome Empress. But the big questions I want to talk to the highest. Minister, if it can answer me, turn to climate targets, turn to public transportation, and the proposal that was adopted here for a light train system in the capital area, and evaluate its practicality from environmental, economic, and social factors. These are huge issues that are also linked to the electricalisation of transport and how we as a whole can be effective in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u93	A respectable president. I guess I can't, in short answer, handle everything as a boy. A senator mentioned, but I hope that I will make it better during my final talk. First of all, because of the topic of conversation. A senator is coming here with -- it's very important, I want to start by saying it -- then I'm thinking, I'm just gonna share it with the U.S.A., that we can do much better by changing traffic culture into the capital area. However, I believe it will take some time. I know why. A senator would have wanted to see bigger steps in this program. I'd still like to say, though, there's still a point on the subject that there's a clearly selected alternative, i.e. Then we might as well say that the car traffic is the choice. I think it's important for us, when we look for an extended period of time, not to set these factors against each other, I think it's important. A senator hasn't been doing that. Some will travel around in cars. They'll have to be expected. Others want wheels, they have to be expected. I think we should take much larger steps when it comes to other energy sources. These indiscretions to electrical vehicles are involved, but they also affect the funding of the road system. We're always applying these fuel costs; though they may not all come back into the road system, that's what the thinking is. I think the changed image we see, and I think we should look forward to it a little bit, also calling for us to make sure that the road system is all over again. I agree with that. Senator I think we can take much bigger steps. It would be a bit fun if we could join us through a big step further into the future. Because of what? A senator in particular asks about the Lightest Assembly resolution proposal, of course, being working on it in the Ministry of Internal Affairs in cooperation with local communities. That's part of it -- now I can't get it any further - so that we can continue with this case. [[The president calls.]] Hence, no longer is there to mention it. All decisions remain. The whole foundation remains. We need to get it out so that we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u94	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I do not expect her to discuss special road projects that I made as a subject. What I feel is important to hear from the highest. Ministers are the big lines. She mentioned what is involved in transport energy exchange, which contains countless subjects that are likely to demand investments. It is not possible that those who want to switch to electric cars - where these elements have certainly mattered - would have the situation wherever they live, e.g. to load such cars. Such a bioavailability should preferably be maintained at home if this is to be done for example. It's a lack of these infrastructures if we look at them. I'd like to mention with the public transportation too. Of course, they don't have to rule out a different type of transportation, but in order to be a good, realistic choice, I say, as a user of public transportation, it's important that we make sure that we make more travel. The most important thing is what I know these matters, the highest. No doubt, a minister has read many studies about this, in modern society, the time for transportation to be frequent and to get to the place as soon as possible. That is what we are seeking in our modern world, which, of course, requires money. I think both matters to achieve ambitious goals. I'm glad we're working on the synonym that I mentioned earlier on the easy-reading system in cooperation with the rural communities here in the capital area. I now declare again that I think there's a lawsuit we're supposed to invest in. It matters for the large context of the parts, not just for safe and easy transport, but for the climate goals as well. I think Iceland has a lot to do with parishion. I hope so. The Environment and Transport Committee considered this particularly in cooperation with the Ministry. I'm not talking about if we could get any indication of the results of a study of the practicality that I mentioned earlier before this discussion is completed by the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u95	A respectable president. I dare not tell it whether it is, I think men are still covering the foundation of this matter. I'm just saying that it makes sense for me to have a wide range of choices as to how people manage their transportation. Hv. A senator named the electric cars and connections and all of this, that's a thing that concerns many, the local community, this particular Ministry, other departments, taxation, partial industrial construction in terms of electricalization. So I think there are many things people need to look at when they discuss this. To me, it is reasonable to have a choice as to how they manage their transportation. I'd like to agree with that, too. A senator, out of public transportation and buses, that I think we can agree that all over the world where there's a most efficient system, the journeys are very frequent. You can count on a bus to be here in a moment. Similarly, the public transportation system costs quite a few things. But it may well be that they too must be taught by initial help. Maybe we haven't gone far enough. Of course, that's where we're talking about issues that are in some way at the custody of the local community. If we're going to see a bus work the best we can see, we need a different time pill than we're used to, and we can figure it out, at least, the way it's been in the past few years. I finally want to say, for other reasons. One senator mentioned: When we are talking about a transport plan, it's normal to be drawn up a little between terms, but I would really like to ask men to look up because it concerns all of us. The roads out in the country are about all of us, too. Hv. A senator mentioned that men aren't finishing things, and we're a little bit of a butt, that's just to admit it. [[The president calls.]] Often, it is a controversy that causes one kilometers to remain here and there, debates that can last for an amazing long time. It'll get involved too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u96	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I restate on the fact that such large issues require co-ordinated policy-making policies and different institutions. I think it's a priority for Iceland that we take practical action on climate issues. There should be goals regardless of the ideals because we've talked about it a little bit. I'm interested in the improvement of transport in all terms, and I feel that all members of the Parliament should be interested in how we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As a member of the assembly in Reykjavík, I look at the likely basic opportunity to begin here in the capital area. So I give high priority to public transportation. Otherwise, I'm not going to extend this discussion for a while, but I hope we'll see the improvement in the plan of the council and especially in the direction I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u97	A respectable president. I have to admit that I may be here to listen rather than to talk about this subject. Pirates have only members of the city of Reykjavík in the north, south of Reykjavík, and south of the south. Since we have no member of the country, there is much in these matters that may be more for us to listen to than to preach. But I must say, at least for myself, that I in general favor a great deal of reform that seems to be a bit too much for the rest of the world, see a tunnel. I remember what changed my view because I used to be more on the line that it might be overly costly compared to the benefits, for the population and so on, but then you see, for example, sailing and how it gets to be the most positive influence and area around the tunnel, which, of course, were controversial as all tunnels were at the time. I am a great supporter of funerals and interested in touching them where it makes sense. I mean, it's often wise, very good for the local law that's close to them. I come here mainly to introduce something that is not included in the suggestion itself, but there are several words of electrical invasion. Piratars recently agreed with a vastly greater part of a car's movement policy, and I would like to introduce it in short terms to review what we may need to consider in the future, thus providing consideration for members and laymen alike. I'm going to start by reading the whole course, with the permission of a president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. We're heading for Iceland's electric response. 2. To increase the proportion of electric vehicles, financial attraction is to be used. 3. As part of a general energy and environmental policy, the State should consider infrastructure, set the target of electrical vehicles, and take the necessary measures to achieve them targets. Today, there is a chain in which we have been referred to as an electric car - accelerator. She is that if people see the benefits of shopping, they need electrical vehicles to be there for the entrance. There's a particular sheet that I believe must, by the nature, step in from something other than simple market laws apart from the fact that, basically, energy exchange, which I think is inevitable, only a question of when and how fast it will be, requires the access of the government and public funds because I don't think the market works to solve problems on its own. As a result, I support very much this operation of electrical effort, viewing it as inevitable, though, evolution that we must begin to promote as soon as possible. Now I'm going to read out my course and have it as my guide. Here's a list of inquisitors available in Iceland for electronic cars both in the state and in the city of Reykjavík. There are no tolls and no electric product charge. This is permanent in the sense that laws need to be changed to make them change. There's no value tax in the first 6 million. K. of every electrical vehicle they take to the country. But he can't be older than three years old. This decline of merit tax returns to only one year at a time, i.e. To the New Year's Eve. To extend this law every year, you must provide a bill for a year. Of course, it creates uncertainty. It is free to park in Reykjavík for an hour and a half, but it is not true if the electrical car is on nail beds. Then there are fewer automobile costs. In contrast, an overview of the coincidences in Norway for electric cars is given. There are no tolls and no electrical charges, no additional tax on electric cars. It's free to park in space, free through tunnels and squares. We're allowed to drive in the priority lane for buses and taxis. Car costs are lower, there is a discount on the individual's income tax if the individual has access to a company car and no merit tax on electrical vehicles obtained from financing companies. It's just that I get out of this direction, I have to admit that I didn't do research to get all this confirmed for myself, but it's at least a policy, and I think she's worthy of advice in the discussion. The groundwork plan is to shape and introduce Iceland's electrical vehicle policies, set up a working team that follows its policy and introduce a national loading program for electrical vehicles. The course's report states, with permission of the President: ▪ The main obstacle to buying an electrical vehicle is the lack of stations. There is no schedule for loading stations either from the government nor from companies that could be useful in setting up a loading station. Enterprises and pioneers are not about to set high ground costs when government policy is unremarkable and wills only one year at a time. While there is no direction, it is not likely that anyone will be benefiting from setting up a system of loading in the country, which again means that people are hesitant about buying an electrical vehicle. As I said before, I feel alone that this trend will not happen automatically until it is really too late. The only thing that could possibly do that would be a terrible price for gas. Of course, it would have its consequences, and we must have responded for that time, in my opinion. We have recently experienced that there was a terrible high oil prices, and there were bad consequences all over the world, not just because gasoline is expensive, but because oil is a limited resource and needs to be found more and more. When it breaks down, we are in serious trouble. Similarly, we are in trouble if we use too much of it because the burning of oil affects global warming, a major problem that the market will not solve on its own. It's a clean line. You're also absolutely right. The Minister of the IWA said earlier about electrical vehicles, that electrical vehicles require access to many people, such as rural society and other recruitment practices. In fact, it requires, in my opinion, the participation of public and public enthusiasm to record it. It is not enough that the state simply puts forth such a course. Public participation must be involved, taking part in energy exchange projects among the public. Speaking of energy change, a respectable president. In a discussion about framework and what to activate and what not remember, I actually thought that there was a difference between whether you would support activation like falling water activation by what energy was used. If we make extensive and conscious use of energy for energy exchanges, I think it would help with the project that is the electrical vehicle itself, but also help with the debate on fortresses that often and times are extremely dangerous, and I sometimes feel that it is unnecessary. To say, since I've basically studied this policy, I strongly recommend that people study it on x.pritar.is, where there is an electrical hazard policy, and they are involved in the discussion of making this option practical. I would especially like to mention an especially interesting talk that was delivered from the mouth. 8th yrs South, Haraldur Einarsson, who discussed safety and pointed out what we may not often think about, which is, we have decided as a community, that the deaths of flight are unacceptable. We're just not gonna let that happen. We'll take the same pole in the hill when it comes to seawork. In some ways, however, the view in society that death is part of life is involved. I think it's interesting and obviously desirable that we'd be just as surprised that there would be a car death and if there were to be a plane death, and that they would have the same demands that people be safe in traffic, as we do in flight. It's an interesting vision that I think it's worth considering. I strongly urge people to listen to an excellent talk. Senator. It was also a problem. A senator on self-driving cars, and he did it with such a shock that I don't think I can do better, so I don't intend to deal with it this time, but assume that the dog. For example, a member of the body may consider doing a little more research, as I see that he is on the telecommunications list.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The last speaker for warm words to me. Clearly, we share our views on these matters. I have a short period of time now so that I will not dwell on the points that I had discussed in my earlier talk. I'd like to skim over a few things that I feel I need to address. I'd like to point out what I think is the biggest lines in this program, and where I feel the money is going. It's on the other hand, on the west side. I'm so glad they're going there, where there's a great need for a new investment. On the other hand, I believe a lot of maintenance money is missing in the South Sea, especially around our natural spheres and where we get an enormous number of tourists. Then I'm not only talking about a road but also a dangerous chapter like Selphoss to tell us what to do, but this year's mission is to begin and the Hellish oath will run out. I really like this. However, I don't feel that there is much work to be done on baseball. I've mentioned it before and mentioned again that I think we need to add to the harbors. The seas are very important to the country, they are important for various employment projects, and I want to specifically mention the harbor of the Cove, which is probably the national interest most affordable transport to which we could attack. Then I'm extremely worried about Landing. It was closed, at least ... Herjólfur,from December until Easter. I suggest that a minister consider setting up some kind of research work to help us keep this harbor open. A new ship, hopefully soon to arrive, can increase the safety of Western eyes and occupations there. A respectable president. I don't have much more time, but I'm going to mention one thing, unfortunately, that has not been present in today's debate, the Half above. The transfer of the Whale tunnel from Speli to the state could remain for about two years, and then this tunnel will be held by the state. Their run will cost the State some 200 to 250 million a year. Will we continue with our payback? Will we retire? Are we going to set up a new tunnel? I think we need to start taking this discussion very soon, because it will take three or four years to build new data if we are going to attack them. A daily forecast for the tunnel is expected to reach a peak around 2020,2021. I think there's really need for discussion for us to decide whether we're going to limit traffic when this happens and direct people around the Havell, or we're going to head for another tunnel next to us, and how do we make that decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u99	President. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing about a four-year transport program. I think it might be a thought that we have to reevaluate how long people will be able to speak in this discussion. Of course, there could be a double speaking period here, I think there's good reason for that. This is an uncomfortable short talk period, ten minutes, where the material is not only about princeship in the case but also a list of specific parts of the country, road users, etc. In accordance with the nature of the issue, it takes a longer speech period, but I will not spend this brief talk period talking about a longer speech period. That would be strange. A few things I would like to discuss, Mr. President, first of all, the things that have only been killed here, worried me some things when I came along. The Environment and Transport Committee for Visiting the Association in which all work is excellent and exemplary. This has helped to make the institutions successful and has done a very good job. The concern was how little space in today's climate and environment debates. I think it's a matter of time error, because we've wanted to be a cat on a international scale in this case, i.e. The environment and climate. There, transport is always very central, especially in transport systems such as ours, where for geographic reasons and various other reasons, cultural, etc., is relatively much about the private car. We've been working on changing these proportions over the past few years, but we're a relatively heavy nation, and our cars are relatively consumer. How much fossil fuels we use for our cars is a concern because they have considerable greenhouse gas emissions. All the programs and analyses we've been working on have been centered on the local vehicle fleet, and it may have looked down on the fact that over a mile - of - a - mile [ km] travel in rental cars is on the increase, almost in power growth, from year to year. We are also talking about significant increases in greenhouse gas emissions. I want to direct that thought to the highest. As a minister, because she is at the discussion, it will be reviewed specifically by the Grouping Office in ways that could be weighted by these views. I asked the highest. The environmental minister in an inquiry about the interaction with transportation authorities, and that was a very weak answer I received from the environmental minister on that matter. I believe that if we're going to live up to the Paris target and our vision in this case, we're going to have to make a much better decision on policy measures in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Second, I'd like to mention two views that I consider to be key to the construction of transport. First, a clearer cooperation with tourism services and the management of tourism is seen in different traffic routes and in different attractions of individual tourist places, and then a new disposal plan for infrastructure at tourist locations brought by the highest level. Environment Minister. I was told when we were discussing the matter of getting closer to the structure of the road system because the most important infrastructures of tourism are actually a transport system for each community. That's where we're behind, too. I'm talking about getting a flash in that our plans reflect the rapid changes in our business life and structure. Third, I'd like to mention the point I've wanted to say, for example, that transportation is a matter of well - being for our most scattered settlements. Then I'd like to agree with the words of those who have spoken here, and I'd like to have made a decision that, as members of the council members, we are, of course, members of the whole country on all matters and should be on top of all matters. We're supposed to be dealing with Langanes and Axes and Animal Straits and Halfgrounds and Great Ways. All of them. There are other things that are not professional, and we are appropriate only to be present in this way. I'm especially glad that happened by the night. paritaprevir Haraldur Einarsson, who wanted to see a road program more with the eyes of someone who wants to reduce accidents with the safety objective. I think there's a problem with the design of the plan that she's still old-fashioned in the sense that she's hanging a lot from this ballot division, so the trend is that each member reads his chapter and stands his watch in the Senate room. This is not good because we're talking about huge amounts of money, and we're talking about such an important aspect of structure and vision that the country's environment, both regional transportation and transport, we're talking about being involved in new jobs, such as fish farms or other projects that require rapid and more frequent transport than we have been able to provide. To the extent that there are other changes in job structure and then simply getting people to and from work, getting in and out of health care, education systems, etc. For people in the crippling regions, the concern is not primarily about whether they will be laid a new road but simply about whether the road in question is all right, the way to be treated, the way you treat it, the way you treat it, the way you treat it, the way you treat it. Of course, you'll think of Aarnesspector or such rural societies, where people who also pay taxes like us would, of course, enjoy the minimal service of having an acceptable transport system. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter considered public transport issues in the capital area and, of course, public transportation throughout the country, an enormous interest in the population and important environment, as well as the importance of road maintenance and construction. I stopped earlier that there is a small line on traffic safety or traffic education. I think there's a part where we need to do something much better. It is growing that tourists are travelling on their own roads, that they are not necessarily on buses, or that they are organized by the local people. It involves people who have little or limited knowledge of the road culture here or just because they drive through bridges or dirt roads. Sadly, as we see in our numbers, both serious accidents and deaths, these realities take far too much toll on our transport system. It's a factor that matters. A respectable president. Now, that is what happens to all of us in this discussion, that time is running too fast. One member of the council put it this way, claiming that time would be twice as fast in this discussion as it would be in all other discussions, since somehow the session was over before you realized it. Finally, I would like to mention that there is a total of too little money here. This program is, under all other conditions at all other times, internationally, and this is not the case with vast increase in tourism or the greater demand for intensive transport. Never, though, would it be that it would be the lot of a new government to set things straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u100	A respectable president. It has been very interesting to observe the debate here on the Senate resolution of a four-year transport program. Iceland is a relatively large country, and not enough of it, but we are also a little few who make it very expensive to run a decent transport system, no matter what it is. What I've noticed, however, on my travels through the country, because in spite of everything, sometimes I go outside 101, though not often, is that the roads in Iceland are far below everything else I've known. I have traveled to mountains in Caucasus, Georgia, where the roads were even slightly better than on the West. I have driven through Polish roads that were built in socialism and were considerably better than the roads that pass through the city. I have driven through a road in eastern Turkey, where you would not have thought that there were roads to talk about, but even there were the most beautiful roads that were wide with good shoulders and reasonably safe. I think it's a little missing in Iceland. Maybe we'll put up with just a little bit of the fact that we're a big, fresh country with relatively few people. But this is not to be an excuse. This may be a reason why this may be a little difficult, but I don't think it's supposed to happen that some parts of the country don't get out of the box, that they don't get to play. We see that some Eastern and Western roads have not really been updated. We're talking about a lot of trails being the original footprints and horse trails tied to a broken layer. It's hardly for big cars driving them today, but they do. How amazing it is that people survive! I haven't been there many times, but I had my life in the hatch all along and I didn't drive myself. What has characterized Iceland's transport politics is the eternal cost of transport. This transport program clearly becomes evident, especially when it comes to rejection. Everything's arranged according to votes. I find the most clear example of how high-poletic this document is. That is why it is also so important that there is a parapolitic agreement on this at the council. It would be best for the council to participate in some cross - political agreement in molding this matter much more than has been done so far, with the natural plan to go beyond the terms of the term. The transport program and the long - term, long - term, long - term plans do not all happen in four years. These 38 well - known senators who rule here today may not be the ones in charge in four years. It's kind of hard to get perspective. This is exactly what has been criticized for Iceland, the fact that policies cannot be arranged. It is expensive to work with the official simply because someone might think of quitting political winds. There is something that cannot be taken in transport. Parapolitic agreements must be made that everywhere the roads are safe. It should not be offered that the way from Patrekísto Reykjavík or to Isafjörður is unsambled at some road point or extremely dangerous because it is very dangerous today. There's one thing I haven't left an Icelandic transport force so far, that just in a new road, there's no new bridge yet. Many beautiful, broad roads around the country are still unique. Two foreign tourists were killed driving on a single bridge earlier in the fall, on a fine, broad road. When the road is better and wider than the bridge, it is harder for the driver to respond quickly. Me and the Pirates have often talked about communism. I feel like a line can be drawn when it comes to the road system and the transportation we have, and it's that all roads should be clear. Nothing to prevent. We're supposed to have somebody standing about what's a good road. Whether the road is in Reykjavík or Nessau, it doesn't matter. The bad road is a bad road, no matter where it is. Surely we can agree on this, and then the road must be updated. It doesn't matter whether ten people pass through it a day or a hundred a day, if we decide to have a proper road system that we can go through, we just have to make it real. I mean, our transportation system is a network of all of us to work on. This is not to be an issue. It's supposed to be something we can agree on, no matter what. That is why I find it so special to look into the transport program that it's an old - fashioned ball. It may be over, or I hope it will soon be. As far as I am concerned, things have changed much in recent years, the transport program in the past was much more idealizing. I don't think it's a particularly theoretical approach to how to divide roads or transport initiatives in order to promote a better transport network for Iceland. I also feel bad that this document will bring an election, it must say, because this is a great deal of heat for a lot of Icelanders. There are a lot of people who can't get to a doctor in Reykjavík because it's impossible or because the road is so bad. This is something that everyone connects to. I don't think it's a good idea that it's going to be so late for the council, just before the election is announced. I have to say, it's possible to work this way into a much greater transpirian reconciliation at open committee meetings or working meetings where people could come and explain this to us. Well, then we could make this some kind of test project. In fact, such a parapolitic work has been accomplished before, but this is an example of something we should work much more cooperate with, since it is something that has to do with all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u101	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a proposal for a four-year transport plan for 2015-2018. This schedule complies with the total schedule, as stated by law No. 33/2008, and stipulate the programme (s) for 2011/2022 where policy and goals are set for all articles of transportation over a 12 year period. I just want to refer to that plan, and I think it's very useful to take time to reexamine these plans together. It says: Transport management should be carried out in line with a transport policy programme that includes transport policies and key targets to work, the definition of the basis of the transport network that covers the whole country and is aimed at ensuring transport, transport funding programme, transport expenditures, and other key aspects of transport management, as well as the maintenance of security and new sea transport projects, air management and road conditions. The program under which we are considering the next four years will include the expected payment from a government fund. I want to make significant improvements in transport and investments in this form of infrastructure. But she's also careful, I think it's fine, since it's quite equal in a four-year period. I'm going to look at the goals specified, because this is a plan and dating as such. This is a priority for transport, which, of course, is very important for all human life and employment and all the general access so that the system works and transports properly and transports within areas and within areas. Such transport needs to be practical in construction, in systems management and maintenance, but it can be seen in the schedule. We tend to focus on the roads because we use them daily, both to get to and from work and to whatever else we have in our daily lives. There is a need for reform, that has been done well in this discussion, and we also demand to move quickly and safely. Third, the safety and importance of responding to the growing pressures of tourism and traffic into the country and of our country have affected our transport systems. Finally, transport structure needs to promote positive development based on the environment. It may be the most important thing to look forward to and consider the contribution of parts of the country to commercial and resource use, with the aim of improving the standard of living for all the people of the country. Before me, I talked why. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir and what? paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir and criticize the perfect schedule, so to speak. We should work on looking all over the country, I agree with it, but I'm not going to criticize it on the plan because I feel that it's just counterproductive to the parts of the country. Actually, it is not often that we councilmen in the capital area and the southwest corner have the opportunity to mark us in our district, but I feel that the transport program has good reason for that. I'm going to use this opportunity to celebrate a great deal of reforms in which the weight of traffic is large, the nature of the situation, in the southwest corner. The areas in which the so - called southern regions II, Reykjavík, and southwest are treated are very well, and the improvements available during the period are available. First, there is a plan to double the course between Langatanga and Skarholway in Mosfellstown's urbanity, which is today on three lanes without the middle and center road. Then, in 2018, Kjalarnes is organized to conduct a circuit around 2+1 runway. As we have seen during the discussion, in view of the change in road culture and use of public transportation, traffic congestion often occurs in many parts of the capital area early in the morning and late in the day when people are going to work, between eight and nine in the morning and four, five, six in the day. They are intended to respond. For example, there is the Anti - Hafnarfjörður Refjörður and Vifil Standards, but there is a need to respond there. It is suggested that three lanes will be in each direction. I'm here to celebrate the conclusion that has arrived at Kópavogsville for implementation at the Underground of Lindir. The ridicule of the road is an urgent security program. The last time we discussed a transport program, we discussed Cyslísavík, and it's estimated that this will be done in 2017. I'd like to say, "Colour Pass, but that road has been removed for a long time for other urgent tasks. " That road is getting pretty bad in terms of safety, both because of the large increase in public traffic and heavy transport that cannot reach the Havenhjörður tunnel. Here's a suggestion to continue with the recycling and reform of the Klondar Pass. That's a fine, respectable president. I'm sure the Quartal Scorp Committee will perform after years of fighting for reform. Finally, I'd like to mention that Eaglenes Road will continue to be carried out, where the chapter from Smokejanes Road will be finished next year. This is an important means of transportation, especially for the upper inhabitants of Kopavog. They're talking about high 20 points. Cars travel around Fifahvam every day and it can be formed, and I've experienced it myself, since I don't live far away, long lengths of cars, when traffic is the most important thing. This project will undoubtedly ease the traffic through the Fiifahvahvah Road. Many senators have come into play with the way the talk lesson flies from a person. I have the same experience. Sustainable transport is actually a matter of personal importance, and the purpose of sustainable transport is an important look to the future. I'm going to quote the 12-year plan, chapter 1, 3, which says that the strategy for sustainable transport will be implemented in cooperation with rural society, with increasing emphasis on public transport, walking and riding, with the goal of reducing environmental impact, transport costs, and the increased support of citizens. The aim will reduce the importance of private cars as well as reduce the energy demand for transportation and change travel habits. I listened attentively to the conversation which took place. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the highest. Olafar Nordal's secretary on this subject and prepares for better and better road culture over time, looking to public transportation, electrical vehicles, and all energy - sparing activities in these areas. I'd like to finally thank you for this plan and that it's being discussed, that's what we need to do. I wish to the highest. Secretary to congratulate you on a good plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u102	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Minister of the INS to congratulate you on your transport plan. In recent months and years, much has been called after her here at a council hall. What a joy it is to know that it is here even though it may not fully meet all expectations! It is now as it is, in many countries, financial resources are lacking despite the benefits of the government. Somehow, we're always talking about the same thing here in a speech chair. We talked here last week about patient health insurance and payment. It showed that they need funding in order to fulfill all that we would like to do. I'm concerned about the state of road and transportation in Iceland. I came to that, answer the question. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, that I would agree with him in terms of being a ballot, that it would be a poem in a transport program that could be called the competition; the senator's competition on who was the most successful in the campaign. You could look at it in the last term when they agreed to a Vállah tunnel. The decision was greatly disputed. Although little can be done today, I would have preferred to see that money go into the subcontinent of the Western West, where people have been allowed to wait for decades for road reforms and so on. But this is how it is, and we have to live with it. It's been decided, we don't have to do anything, we have to live with it. But it is quite clear that there will be extensive transport in the north, like all tunnels, in the desert. These are the largest settlements today; transport and communication are the largest cohesion in communities today. I was in the Faeroe Islands last year, but the Faeroe Islands are about to strike into an enormous tunnel from East Island to Straum Island. The primary objective is to keep places based on East Island, Rúnavík, and Street, that it is the absolute basis for eutrophication. This is very important. According to a report on road accidents in Iceland 2015, our last year was very bad. Sixteen people died in traffic four times the previous year, which killed four people. This may also be explained because there has been a tremendous increase in the number of tourists. In my district, since we're talking about the district, for example, six out of 16 died, and seven foreigners were killed in traffic last year. You can see for yourself when you drive around the country, and especially in the Southern District, that it's a huge round. I described it earlier that it was like going on an adventure mission to drive into the district because traffic is huge. I went to Vignar in MIr Valley on a road trip. Ólafur Guðmundsson, who has been in the discussion, gave a lecture on the road language. When I drove home that night in rainy rain and wind, I had life in my hatchs all the way mainly out of the blessed travelers on the rental cars that do not lower light and seldom depart; they just don't know how to walk the road in Iceland if I'm supposed to say exactly what it is, or very limited. I'm worried about the financing. Today, talks have shown that much money is missing into this situation. I'm looking at the summer with considerable concern. If there are any predictions, the number of tourists is about 500,000, I'll just say, "Guð help us." I have also realized on my travels about the district that there is a huge amount of money missing for law enforcement. If there's something that guarantees safety beyond anything else, it's the tightest legality of the police on the road. True, it is also necessary to fix roads. This is indicated by a U.S. Association report that the longest road in the country was in its time on Three Road Roads. Then, because of the benefits of an accident, it has made it necessary for us to take steps to repair our country's roads. They're terrible. It's the only word. For example, I live on Southnes and drive the Smokey Way every morning to work. Leaving in the morning is a small thing to rejoice about. I live in Grindavik, but Grindagur is one of the most driving roads in the country, as the discussion has shown. I've had the experience of meeting eight buses in five miles, from the leftover to Blue Laón down to Stapa. It says all that has to be said about it. It's got to do some counter-improvement. We have to get money to do that. That is also what you think about. How do we get money? This government has consistently reduced taxes since it was discovered. She put 80 billion into debt. [[Take it up in: That was a success.]] Whether she's successful or successful can be debated. It's money that would have been more successful in strengthening the interiors of society. I'm not necessarily that this is where we tax everything for killing, but during the last term, there were significant changes in taxes. Taxation was raised and the tax system was fixed and greatly improved, I believe. I don't think the government should have been able to interfere with anything to begin with, because it has been found to be a lack of financial resources in the community. It doesn't matter whether it's the transportation system, the education system, the law enforcement, the health care - it's all on the same book, there's no money to run it. During last week's discussions, I mentioned health insurance because there has been a lot of debate over demaritals and tax cover; it is estimated that some 600 billion are owned by Icelanders, who should be ashamed to bring them home and participate in the structure of society. 80 billion people cheat on taxes. I don't understand how people can, with a good conscience, drive around and live on their backs cheating their money from taxes, and I don't really think about people like that in Iceland, people who don't care about anything but themselves, and don't give a shit about society. You can't just say that these people don't give a shit about Icelandic society. [[Up front.]] No, and we're not supposed to accept that. Fortunately, the transport program is in place, and therefore it should be welcomed, but it lacks funding. There's no money in Icelandic society. We need to work together to get people to participate in the community so that we can take care of these matters firmly and in a way that pleases Jehovah. Taxation is the price for living in a civilized society. We need to figure out what to do with them. We need to have a conversation with those who have access to our resource, what they think is a reasonable amount of access to that resource. That's one of the things that have dropped dramatically during this season and should not have happened, because in the history of Iceland, the road to the sea has been so successful, fortunately. We're supposed to be proud of it. But those who have access to our resources should also be proud to pay to the community so that we can run a community that we can be proud of. We have everything to carry, Icelanders, it's not a problem. Once again, I say, "I'm looking out for the summer, but I hope it's best because we have some very powerful people in law, and we have good people in the road. " I really hope that we can get better information into the situation. As a member of the Southern District and a member of Parliament, I have traveled extensively in the district. The tremendous stress on the roads is one of the main concerns of those living in the districts and rural governments. In my district, there's also a land island crew that's a lifelong project, it seems, that we have to deal with in the years ahead. Hopefully, a new M.F. will make much more changes there and make transportation to the island better because it's their highway. He's got to be okay. I'm still going to wish the highest. Minister of the INS to congratulate you on bringing forward a transport plan. I hope we can work this out in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u103	V.E.G. President. I'll join you in good luck to the highest level. Minister of state for the development of a transport programme. The issue is that there will never be any delight in reading all of us while many projects await us. There will never be pleasure in a transport program while living in the back of mountains, such as in Sufjörður or West. While people live in impaired transport because of lack of water, such as those in the Western Islands and people in the capital area, there are 50 minutes between people disappear each day, probably because they do not seem to be too happy with the plan. Yet, there are many very positive things in this program. For example, what a joy it is to see in a literal sense the end of the Arctic tunnel! After 11 years of living in Eskimo, I know that when they become in use, they become a revolution for people living in common schools, working areas, culture, and so forth. It is also a cause for joy that we will see the beginning of construction at the Animal Strait in 2017. It's where we're naturally, on the West, in a bullshit defense struggle, and in effect, we're making sure that the West does not survive. I am a lover of the West, and I have been there almost every year since I reached adulthood and have admired the people who live there. I've kind of been praying every summer when I go there that people don't give up, and I've had one more winter because the possibilities of that part of the country are so much that we all don't have transportation or a lack of it to hold back from rural development and professional development there. I want to know that there are some things to be happy about my district, the Southwestern District. What a joy it is that we work for 380 million this year in Eaglenes Road and that we provide for the end of the project at the next year! It's also a pleasure, not just a pleasure, it's a joy to catch you when you know that it's going to be in a ignominious tournament south of Hafnarfjörður in 2017, and a double Smokejanes Way to the south because it's actually a mold, as says in America, an accident waiting to occur. I really hope we don't make it until we get the wrong corners. But there's still no way because it's the busiest road in Iceland and the road most of the tourists here are driving around and probably the first road they drive in Iceland, either on a bus or on their own car, a rental car. The fact that the Smokey Way is in good shape is going to be doubled all the way. It is also more important than tears that it seems that the road model was so broke during the past loss that only on one side of the road to the south is the lightiest, so in itself the description is actually actually worse than if it were not. This has to be fixed naturally because the cost cannot be set on Vega's side. When we look at the tremendous traffic and the security described, we must naturally improve. It can also be described as a delight to double the Mosfells farm in 2018 and then on Kjalarnes, since this will raise the natural security of those around it and save a lot of money. There's one other thing I'd like to strongly recommend to those who are involved in both the Environment and Transport Committee and the financing. Now there's an idea for a new warlock, and I encourage men to be careful when it is determined that the design and structure of that ship will be costable if I remember just over 4 billion, because the ship is about to be effective. I think we're going to live with it for the next few years, I don't see any change in it, that we're going to be stuck with a land island crew three or four months a year, and then we're gonna have to have both a powerful ship and a fast, so people don't feel the same way about having to go to the Coyotry when it's worth it. On the other hand, I cannot quickly see that there will be a solution to a landy crew so that I don't know unless you take the time they need to be with them enough speedy ship to sail to the village crew for no longer to be enjoyed. There's one thing I've noticed in this conversation, and I think I've been watching it quite reasonably, and I haven't heard anyone mention it in Reykjavík, and I think it's strange. It turns out that in this second fine plan, one dollar is not expected to be carried out at the airport. I have to admit, too, that I'm concerned about the future of the Reykjavík airport. As it stands today, there is an agreement between the state and the city of Reykjavík for eight or nine years. After that time, we know nothing. The behavior of Reykjavíkurburg in the affairs of the Reykjavík airport and how she has acted on the end of the disaster course is a natural scandal. I hope the Minister of the Interior holds lawsuits to stress in this case because it does not work that the interests of a few propertymen who want to build a large end of this course are going to compromise the safety of the airport for everyone else. It just doesn't work. Then there is another one that I have not felt was given much attention to in this discussion, the case of Keflavík Airport. Now it's too bad that a National Review has not returned a report on the operation of Istavia. The one standing here. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir then asked for a year's assessment of the business of that company because we believe it can be done better. However, we do not know whether the report confirms this or not because it has not yet been established. However, it has been identified as building up for several billion dollars and needs to be built in the near future. I've seen Istavia's strategy for reinvestment of the Keflavík Airport, which is expensive but necessary. I am more concerned with the things at Keflavík Airport that are not part of a transport program. I'm worried about the things the state is coming to. Among other things, I'm concerned about law enforcement at Keflavour Airport. I'm worried about customs security at Keflavour Airport. We've built up a lot of good things to pay for a passenger's flow. We've taken care of security. Although I'm worried about the firefighter on the field, we've taken care of security at the Cheflavour Airport, but what turns straight towards the state has been on the edge. In view of recent events very close to us in Europe, there is a lack of full security at Keflavour Airport. It just doesn't work. Although I know it's not the plan we're discussing here, we're simply going to have to improve there in order to ensure the safety of people traveling the field, to ensure that this is not an illegal issue or material that has a bearing on the security of the nation. I trust it to the highest. The Minister of the Interior Is there. I will support her on that subject to the very end, since this was my workplace until 11 years old and I know how the structure was in 2006 when there was a plan for building up to 2025, optimism, pessimism, and what people expected. I recall that the most optimistic predictions for 2015 were in 2011, so this is not a simple project. It is not easy to participate in such structure, and it is not easy to plan, but we must, because something else is not available. That's what I said, I thank you to the highest level. Minister for bringing up this plan, and I hope we can handle it properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u104	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion, which has been very brilliant. Many of it is familiar when the program for transportation is discussed at the council. A four - year plan is, in fact, a project plan, and it is natural for a person to consider individual tasks and divide such things, of course, that is the way it is and that has been for all the time I have been here. I believe that this has always been so that when it comes to transportation, it is the case. However, I would like to discuss just a few of the factors mentioned here. I think maybe the discussion was about two things, one on the other hand, one on the part of a unique project and the other, which is actually the basis of the plan itself, i.e. transport in general, their purpose, and their purpose in such a program. There are, of course, a lot of walking around in the whole of society. They're all about what we do. They go into every area of our daily lives, our whole organization, so, of course, it is a vast case. However, the four - year transport program discussed here is naturally unbroken in connection with a 12-year plan that is in effect. Thus, a four - year transport program is a 12-year plan. So, in a sense, it is a little difficult to discuss without having the 12-year plan in the picture because it reflects it naturally. The protocol is also in its nature a protocol that runs across the terms of terms, passes over a long period of time, and is in itself a plan that is, in effect, working across all odds. So I think it's important to bear in mind that when a minister at any given time puts forward the plan, it reflects in it a discussion that has taken place for many, many years, although, of course, certain emphasis is always presented. This is very important. However, I've been thinking a lot about it since I came to this issue now whether the plan is to be in some other way. We are often talking about things that may be growing in the discussion and that are difficult to clearly establish in a transport program, and that is, in fact, the cooperation between climates when it comes to transportation. They've been named here, e.g. Security issues that are extremely important. We have added emphasis on them, whether in general or in particular on the great stream of tourism that we are, of course, grateful that it has a great and positive influence for national preparation, but it requires considerable effort on our part. Although this is the underlying principle, a schedule may reflect in a vague way. I'd also like to agree with what happened by the dog. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter's trouble is that while we're trying to do better, we're trying to tighten the conversation between us, for example. The Ministry of Transport and Transport has to do this much more. Perhaps this would require some adjustment in the format of the transport program. I mentioned in my first talk today that although the 12 - year period is rather long, it is short when it comes to transport investments. I would be interested that we could make it to the point that we would be able to talk about transport for decades into the future. That's why I mentioned, for example, the highway system. It has been said that some chapters of the highway system are very old, and it can be said that the section of today's highway system is very old. The 60 Western Road, the 60 what we're trying to deal with, is part of the first generation of highways in Iceland and, of course, is completely different from what we're getting used to today. Of course, we're putting our hands on a show like this. I think it's very important that we do. We at the Department of Internal Affairs have been trying to open up this discussion, so we set out so-called white codices on transportation to try to control the factors we feel should affect the transport discussion today. I mentioned the above security issues, but the environment is of course part of this and other occupations, such as tourism and so forth. All this matters. And I'd also like to let it come out, because people have been talking about how to build a plan, that, of course, it's all very well fixed and under law. A minister is obliged to make the suggestion. It's a law duty. There is no choice on the part of a minister, apart from the fact that it is impossible for the national transportation authorities to have a four-year plan. There must be a valid protocol. Without a means of transport, people are suspicious of transportation, so it is of enormous importance. But that's the way it is, and this is more, a respectable president, a curiosum than anything else, that the transition in the plan is actually not elected. It depends on the territory of the Roadmaker, and it doesn't compromise the ideal split. If you look closely at the plan, you will see that it does not depend on it. But because this is the way it happens, there's always a tendency between the ballots. I've been calling for a little something to lift up over it and to do exactly this, to have a view of the whole transport situation, whether it is something in the capital area or somewhere else. A beach neck is an excellent example of a project that may not concern a large group of Icelanders, but is extremely important and should be a field of interest to everyone, I think. So this is how I like to think. I also find it very important that members of the capital area who have been discussing this matter today bear in mind the importance of being carried out on land as well. I know that people understand very well. I just wanted to mention this in connection with this matter. Since then, the main point of the discussion has been that they want to see the extra money on transportation. As I said in my opening speech, there are no throws in this program because it's my opinion that you need to see something first in financing, so at least not while I stand here that such plans will be made. There were a few comments. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir asked for a down payment on the debt and negative of her own money in Vega and in general about the economics of Vega and whether the government had dealt specifically with it. This conversation has not yet been resolved, so I answer the senator with it. She also mentioned Stinky Road and wished that he could be completed in the season. The rock road is an old story, and we all know it, but we decided last year to try to set a focus on it by providing special funds for it, so at least they got it and we're going on with it, though I understand very well that those living in this area have grown tired of waiting for this project to complete. I talked earlier about public transportation and other energy options. I think it's important to remember when we talk about electricalization that as soon as we have to do a lot of work in certain interiors, as they say, you can load on electricity, that's also so that every house in the country would have to be able to load the cars. I think that's one of the issues we can't find enough room for in this narrow system of design. That's why I think it's so important that we somehow get up a little bit, and I feel that we've been doing all right today. I wish that the Council be well discussed in transport discussions on a transport committee and look forward to seeing the results.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u105	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a new law on research committees. I present the bill on behalf of the Trustee's Committee for Presidency of the Generals. This suggests a change to the NTSB laws. The motive is the experience of the actions of the law and the orders of the two committees who have worked on their basis. As we have seen, it was particularly critical of the length of the studies and of the cost they cost. During the summer session of the prime committee in August 2013, an article on the experiences of the Council of the Research Committee of the World and the cause of the difficulties and fall of the savings and research committee on the apartment loans etc. was discussed. As a result, the Commission concluded that the Office of the Generals was involved in a report on the experience in the implementation of current legislation on the Committee to Study Committees. That work ended at the end of 2014. The report of the Commission in January 2015 summarises the points that must be considered relevant in the preparation and order of the research committees under the Commission's legislation. Special attention should be given to the establishment of the research committees and the access of the President of the Generals and the Office of the Generalis to prepare and make suggestions for improvement. The relatively short experience with the implementation of legislation on research committees and the criticism that has been shown to be too long, too expensive, and to yield little results is in many ways consistent with criticism that has been observed at the research committees in Denmark, and with the implementation of local legislation on study committees. In Denmark it has been criticized that research committees are costly, they take a long time, and they are very heavy in their jobs. Explains the criticism and discussion of other options in the work on the General Legal Office. Since the report was January 2015, the issues of research committees and other potential research tools have been provided for further discussion in Denmark and how it can be most practical to meet the needs of the Parliament on information and information issues relating to the work of the minister or administration in his field. However, direct recommendations by the government in that country have not yet come up for improvement. The objective of this bill is to provide a clearer basis for the order of the research committees, focusing on the more progressive approach of the President of Generalis to the professional preparation of the order. This aims to provide the best information for the Council for the Commission's decision. At the same time, there will be a clear distinction between the decision of the General Commission on the order of the Commission and the administration in behalf of the Generals, as well as the more detailed regulations for the activities of the committees and the responsibility for their activities. The bill suggests changes to existing law No. 68/2011, of the research committees where there are indications and suggestions that have been given on the orders and activities of the research committee. Is there a main policy based on a paper written by the General Law Office. First, the changes are aimed at strengthening further preparation to the order of the research committee and the implementation of the Allegorical Council. Is suggested in preparing a proposal for the resolution of the Commission's orders, but it is important to make use of the knowledge and experience that the council's office has of the activities of such committees. In addition, the President of the Generals will be authorized to prepare the Commission for the review of the government's state accountant and agent, while these members of the Generals'council have a wealth of knowledge of government affairs. With such preparation there is a better chance of evaluating an investigation, whether it is important to the public, to the extent and cost of research, to the availability of other resources and to the demands of the committee, and to include more carefully the legal status of those taking the research committee. Such treatment can be considered a form of forethought as to whether a committee should be appointed and what could be done by such committees. To ensure such an examination, the president of the General Assembly is counseling. It is then the Congress itself that determines whether a committee will be formed. With these changes, the president of the Generals is endeavoring to clarify the role of the President, who will then be in his line of action to follow Generalis's counsel by appointing members and providing the committee with facilities and equipment. Second, there is an effort to clarify the responsibility of individuals or lawyers in what way the research committee should discuss. In view of the fact that a committee of inquiry may be assigned to consider whether there are legal issues that can help to explain whether there is a basis for a government to know the basis for individual or legal responsibility. It is suggested that the board does not comment on the responsibility of a minister under the law of No. 4/1963 on ministerial responsibility, but wording 7 mg. Section 5. does not clearly indicate the procedure of the research committees. In order to prevent potential misunderstandings, however, it is expected that a committee of investigators can draw attention to the Commission's surveillance role of the European Commission, a administrative and monitoring committee, on the issues that may give the General Assembly grounds to investigate the responsibility of the Minister. For the final paragraph 8, Figure 1. 13th par. The Act of Parliamentary Congress leads to the work of the Commission and Commission, on the basis of the facts presented by the Council to offer suggestions for further action of the Council. A description of specific aspects of growth, including the duties of a minister, may thus result in the making of the decision made by the Commission on the basis of the Commission's findings in particular, such as Article 14. The constitution. Such an examination would be conducted by a management and monitoring committee. Third, it is suggested that the duties of the research committee be made clear to the President of the Generals for the progress and expenses of the research committee. The financial issues of research committees, including accounts of their jobs and of their responsibility, will also be clearly defined. Fourth, general opinions on the use of study documents are put into place. Fifth, it is suggested that there be a clear understanding of the data of the research committee in those cases when a federal committee has informed the prosecution of suspicion that criminal conduct has taken place until the prosecution has evaluated this case and has decided whether the prosecution will be. Sixth, adjustments are suggested in wording and conformity in the text of the law. Finally, 7th is suggested to add a new law to temporary development in which it is stated that the administrative and monitoring committee should be agreed upon when this law has been agreed on by the Council's resolution from November 7, 2012, on the investigation of the privateisation of employment investment banks, Iceland's National Bank, hf. and Iceland's Farm Bank, to ensure that the limitations and scope of the study will be in accordance with the regulations of these regulations. Mr. President. I think it is very important that this investigation is conducted by the Committee to ensure that the preparation of the study is carried out in accordance with Article 1. The bill. I propose, chief. President, proceeding to proceed with the Commission and Commission following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u106	A respectable president. It's nice to finally get this bill into the council and these changes. What I would like to ask is, Have the study committees especially been looked forward to providing a range of pages of the reports produced by a research committee? The European Parliament is very strict on the fact that over-exploitation reports are submitted, too long reports over the head. This often involves more cooperation between members of Congress and those in charge of the study. I heard why. A senator only spoke of the Danish Parliament and the research committees that have been there. There are research committees elsewhere and where, during the European Parliament, I know the best of all, the Parliament itself directs the investigation, and it is largely open to the public. Likewise, I want to ask why. A member of Parliament whether this is not a further requirement that when it comes to specific issues at open committee meetings and examine them into the basement, which happened with the City Department, insurance, and so forth, they submit a report. What happens then is that the public investigation of the council does not necessarily include a research committee. However, I would appreciate it if the committee had to produce some of them as the result of this commission work, as has been done in a pay - and - pay financial committee. [[The president calls.]] I hope you understand my question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u107	Mr. President. I thank you for these questions that are very important to me. First, ask why. A member of the council whether this was intended to be a predetermined size or size of these reports. Perhaps what this bill is going to do is try initially before the report, observation, or study starts with the subject. We who know something about methodology, as we are taught in college, realize that this point is extremely important. I think fair enough that this may be one of the points we learned from the previous reports that we may not have thought the whole matter through when we went to that job. Perhaps we have been following a completely new path. Therefore, it is so much suggested in this bill that before we begin with the Council's Office and following the events of both the Constitution and the Subcommittee over the matter in order to ensure that the work to be started will definitely achieve its objective to deal accurately with the points that the Parliament wants to be considered. You might say: No, it is not to say that this can be just a page number, but we are trying to set the subject down. Of course, some committees report, it is the decision of each members of the Senate. Here we are merely discussing this particular subject of research committees, which are specifically developed. Then let us not forget that we assume that research committees are not set up unless other options are emptied. First, of course, various committees can study matters, and second, we have both a government accountant and an agent. I think we need them immediately to wonder if we can't get some results by using alternatives to research committees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u108	A respectable president. Yeah, I agree with what. A member of the council that the research committees are supposed to be our last resort. But in that case, I think we also need to rethink how committees can function properly, including, properly. by returning reports if there are panels involved in a study on specific issues. One of the things I had to do in my work at the European Parliament was to write what was called the 'working Pope' to do. It was only eight pages long, and it was designed to explain the study question and the problems of a single specific area. Thereafter, it had to be introduced to the committee before the European Parliament I was working for was allowed to continue the study. I think there's some sort of arrangement like this - I think we can learn a lot from the European Parliament. It is very large, very moving, and international, so this would have had to be discussed in a very detailed way at the time of its arrival. I would have liked to see more research in the back of this. It is not always bad to limit the number of pages, sometimes necessary, simply because it is possible for a person to read the report and reach the core. I've read half of the AWA's study report on the conduct of the bank crash, four volumes, and it has to be said that much of this material was an additional substance that wouldn't have had to be in the final report, though it's a hell of a lot of data. Now I speak both as historian and also of someone who is just interested in knowing what happened. That's the main problem. That's why I think it's better to have a more clear rule of work and to explain the rules of responsibility, including having to return a job document first, I'm sure it would improve the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u109	Mr. President. I think this is an important part of our history. A member of the council brings up here, the evolution that we have only recently seen that committees take up with their own initiatives, issues that have appeared in the national press, issues that may arise because of information that may be raised by the members of the Parliament for another reason, which may give special reason to consider the matter further. Parliamentary committees have the authority and space to settle such issues. I think it's grilled that evolution was in the sense that members of the Parliament are filming such cases and dealing with them. In some respects, this is published in the form of a committee opinion, but I'm sure it's right around the corner. One of the more interesting questions for the council would be whether it should be more effective to produce some written product that would be possible after the incident at the council. This may call for even more assistance to members of the council, which, of course, is just part of the discussion we've been wanting to promote, to promote professional assistance with the council. It has been in the right direction if you look at it in some context. These are interesting things, even though this issue is not going to work out because it is all about the research committees. Like what? In this context, however, a senator correctly points out that there is good reason for us to consider how we want to develop it in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u110	President. I'm glad this bill is in the way. It's taken some time to come here, so the work of research committees has been delayed. It is absolutely true that the work of the research committees that have studied the apartment loans and the savings seemed to have become quite out of touch and become much more extensive than people expected. It's my opinion, a respectable president, that the council could have set a stiffer frame than it was, but good and good with it, it may just be my private look, but then it's here in shape. The bill suggests that the Council can frame such committees. This is very necessary, and it is good because we need an opportunity to establish these research committees. I wanted to ask the president of the bill if it's right with me that the investigation we've been asking about what we've called the personal development of the banks is considered complete in this proposal. You're not pushing it aside, are you? That investigation, then, would have to follow the laws given here. Am I right?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-19-101.u111	A respectable president. It should be traced only to historical history. In the summer of 2013, when a new bigger part came into existence, one of the things I used to do as U.S. President was that we tried to figure out where we were regarding the research committees. The nature of the studies seemed to be more than we had planned, which included the cost and length of time that we planned. I felt very important that we tried to learn from experience, and that's what we've been trying to do. Our cousin Danir has faced similar challenges. We sent representatives to see if they can learn how to handle such matters, learn from their experience as well. By then, our decision on the Presidency Commission was that the monarchy was waiting for a new bill that hopefully became a law that I really hope would apply to this matter. They would be taken along, previously approved by the Generals. A senator pointed to it, through a new needle's eye. In other words, this approval was adopted in the light of this law, and if it led to changing because of these new laws, to make more demands on the delinquency of a subject, etc., it would have been odd to conclude that we were starting a review of the NTSB laws than would have started work on the basis of the old law. This is no way to prevent any investigation that is currently under way. It is merely to say that it is the most natural thing to have this issue in the currently created frame so that once this investigation occurs, it will be defined in the same way as expected in the bill. [[The president calls.]]
