ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u1	The President wants to report a letter received from the Department of Employment and Development that asks for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 1576, about three phases of rural electricity, from Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u2	There are: health ministers, industrial and commercial ministers, foreign ministers and social and housing ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u3	A respectable president. No one has missed the fact that widespread dissatisfaction is the status and status of a pensioner in the country. ... toexplanmentof a very, very, very, very busy meeting in the University of America last night. A welfare committee has been reviewing the bill for changes in social security. I'd like to ask the highest. Social Affairs Ministers whether it is considered an option to make changes in the bill available at the council, thus increasing the share of sensibilities from what was originally expected and to reduce the excessive revenues we have in the system, and surely they are highly critical. This is especially why I refer to income support for employment because it seems that due to the limited funds involved in these changes, people who may be involved in half-work by 150◯200 you do. K. Business income is not as good as it used to be. Of course, there must be a problem with the expectations of these changes in social security, but this is because of the lack of money. So I'm here to ask the secretary if they've discussed this in the government, if she's spoken to the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget, Bjarni Benediktsson, or whether there is a discussion in the members of the board to clear this frame, put more money into these changes in the social security system that are clearly needed to make this possible, toward what people have hoped for. And if that's especially this factor, i.e. to reduce loss of employment because of people's employment, which would be an option to change for the better from the originals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u4	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. We've been reviewing the comments that have been made on the bill, especially on the subject. A senator mentioned the sector's income. The bill we've been working on, and I recommended here at the council, we're adding much of the interaction that has been a major requirement for older citizens' interest groups and disability, and we're adding the partnership to the pension fund. Those who have pension stakes come out much better with this bill. On the other hand, professional fairs have been very high, especially after the changes we made at the beginning of this terms. The conclusion, then, is that there may be some who may get worse off the bill. If I don't forget, I think a minister of finance said in the leader's speech that he's ready to consider changes that are moving to the point of view. A senator mentioned here. I can confirm that we have been counting the cost of installing the job market and therefore meeting those comments. I have informed both prime minister and secretary of finance on those figures.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u5	A respectable president. How important it is that our social security system be encouraging! That it is not discouraging. That it does not cut people apart as hard as it does in itself, whether elderly or desperate. I'm glad to hear it. A minister is having a field of vacation checked on employment income. It is important for people who are trying to improve their quality of life by working part - time, perhaps after they are in pensions, not to be paid. But I pray to the highest. A minister to inform not only his fellow minister of the numbers being considered in this regard but also of the minister's credit goal and the cost of making these changes. I understand that it is a government's will to meet, of course, the elderly's demands that humans not be worse off on these laws than on the contrary, but on the contrary, they are better off.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u6	A respectable president. As we both know, me and what. A senator, it is important to secure funds to make needed adjustments. I've stressed it out and fought to get extra money into the social security. With the bill now located at the welfare committee, it is assumed that over 5 billion will be added to your social security right away during the New Year's Eve. We've been calculating this and compiling information, and of course we'll also agree with the members of Congress who work on it. I can't express myself any more than what I've already done, but I've fought to get more money from the jury and think it's very important that we react to the comments that have been received about the revenues, as mentioned here. The bill is based on the proposals of a committee as a subject. A senator sat in, and we followed exactly the suggestions made there. But, of course, it is up to the council to decide what to do better. I'd also like to point out that it's a set of regulations that came from the Committee that people can get half of their pensions with no money reduction, which is new in social security, and that they've never known each other before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u7	A respectable president. This morning, the job board was cleared up on a case that's involved in a post-traumatic case that has been given to the Krita Line and Theistse Log line, i.e. National Network Corp bill. to build and fire these lines. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers because there has been considerable concern over this matter in the Committee, and as a representative of the Environment Committee, I have found that they have found themselves extremely concerned about this matter. They worry about domestic and foreign commitments, including conflicting with the Ásse Convention and the EEA Convention, with the European Convention on Justice, possibly the bill does not agree with a constitution, and then I'm talking about 2. "Tr., 70." gro, 60th pars. and 78th par. At a meeting of the Commission yesterday, a representative of the Ministry of Presidency showed that he did not believe it was the role of the Ministry of Presidency to specifically review this commitment and conform to the Constitution. Rather, it would be the responsibility of the Ministry to give the bill to the council in sufficient ways in this matter. Today, both the committee's doubts and speculations have been raised, as well as the renowned domestic lawyers, as they have today's last Dutch law professor yesterday. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he believes that the Ministry of Industrial Affairs has provided a sufficient assessment of whether this bill will last both this international and international commitments, as well as the Constitution of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u8	A respectable president. I would like to begin with this bill not only at the prosecuting and innovation services but also in cooperation with the Ministry of Directorates, the Ministry of Environment and Resources and the Ministry of Development, the side of the Ministry under me. In addition, when preparing the case, there was an external legal opinion from one of the largest legal agencies in the region, LOGOS, where the Office was specifically asked to review international contracts. A senator and a captain of the post, including the Aggressor Convention and the EES bonds. It made it clear that if they are read on contracts and commitments, the Árús contract will take over the reigns and rights of the citizens to uphold these opinions and charges. This is a legal arrangement in which members of the National Committee serve at the General Assembly and live on this legislation. The agreement goes according to a legal entity that we did not create for such decisions. It's true that that that's the process. It has always been obvious and completely stated in all this work that the process is being taken, but according to the information and opinion we developed there is not a possible violation of these contract commitments. Furthermore, in view of the constitution, the Law firm began to consider these matters and concluded that the Constitution was not being violated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u9	A respectable president. The meeting yesterday's committee made a very strong comment on how a state-of-the-art law firm had dealt with the Persuasion Convention, since it is actually just dealing with what the Minister calls here, not the part of the legal legislation to disassociate the lawsuit. Hence, this aspect is not addressed, that is what is reprehensible. The European Convention on Human Rights is not considered, and it is very likely that these rights are violated, and this will be observed by the author of law. Clearly, this points to one another, the Ministry of Presidency points to the Ministry of Industrial Affairs and the Ministry of Industrial Affairs pointing to the Ministry of Prime Ministry and the Ministry of Ministry of Ministry, and ended by the statement yesterday that it was appreciated by the Ministry of Ministers. All right. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on a letter that came from the Environmental and Resource Declaration Committee into the case where it is said that a decision may be issued in the week 10,◯14. October. Why don't we wait with this clearly unconvinced legislation and allow natural legal legal procedures to be completed when such a short decision is made?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u10	A respectable president. I want to make it clear that we are not pointing one another out. It's this way, and it's very clear in a paper with the bill that the bill in question is working together with these three schemes, and we've created these data, and everything's in place. Opinions on the Ásse Convention have been made. Regarding the European Convention of Human Rights, it is well - known that it may not have been violated. Regarding this letter from the Environmental and Resource Commission, it is reasonable to say that the result could be prior to the week 10,◯14. October, but further notes that there may be delays. As we were winning this bill, they had received answers from this excellent committee that it would probably be much later. In view of the work that has been done, in view of their interest and their urgent tasks, it is considered appropriate to complete it by legislation in order to eliminate any further uncertainty about this important project. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u11	President. V.E.G. The minister of the State of Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddóttir made an education, and the struggle for improving government and respect for the legal government was the principal subject of his speech at the UN General Assembly of this month in New York 24 C.E. That was an excellent speech, but I would like to ask the highest. Ministers on how she intends to use such respect for the rights and government of this land. In this context, the foreign minister withdrew. While conflicts in Syria and Iceland's contribution to the refugee problem are well - known, we do not agree with those who are applying for asylum in Iceland. Unfortunately, our story in this context is not beautiful. It's just that way. That's why I thought it was the best. Ministers only tell half the story when she spoke of how great Iceland was in this context in her United Nations speech. The foreign minister turned aside from human rights and rights and said that if human rights were not based on human rights, they would never have public support for long periods of time. Instead, they would plant seeds of discrimination and undermine social values. Thus bad government practices could threaten national security and cause instability. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how the Minister feels about what he's done when the former officer. The minister of foreign affairs not only ignored his own promises to the nation but also the council at the time of Brussels and stopped Iceland's negotiations with the European Union. Is it a constant and respectful way of handling the rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. What a fine tour of my speech by the United Nations General Assembly last Saturday! She made a great effort to review the points I had in that talk. She asks us how we should increase respect and improve government and other aspects of government, and I think it's a very good question and a good thing to do in the General Assembly. I think that a good discussion here and that sort of question time is a good thing and can help us with that. Besides, why? A senator how I feel about my predecessor's work as he went to Brussels and drew back his party application. I think that everyone should be aware that neither of the board of directors had any intention of moving on with them. For myself, it is very important that if such things continue, there will be a national agreement to see if we are going to apply for involvement in the European Union. I think it's very important. What we're supposed to do, too, and I have strong conviction about it - we shouldn't be afraid to put more cases on national terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u13	President. How beneficial it would have been if those who were running for the last election before the forwarding party had simply made it known to voters that it was not for them to have a national fee during this terms and those who would represent this party at the council would see nothing wrong to ignore a Congress resolution that would have been approved at the General Assembly. All of our international covenants, all of our international commitments, in the form of the synonym, were being undermined by this act. I'm asking the highest. The minister in all sincerity whether or not she feels that the basics of the state of justice are meant to be, as when ministers of the government of Davíð the Oddsson of Odddson and Ásgrímsson the son of Ásgim decided to participate in war without agreeing with the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u14	A respectable president. As I say, the policy being carried out by both administrations was in line with their basic opinion of this matter. Neither category intends to enter the European Union and its policy at that time. I don't think there's supposed to be a reason. A senator's surprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u15	One question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u16	- Yes, I'm answering her. Thank you very much for the question. I think it's very useful that we have this discussion here, which really helps the legal world. But as I say, this policy was in harmony with the policies of the board of directors and should not be surprising.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u17	A respectable president. This week we have seen reports that people with disability have had to wait for a contract to be handled personally. Last night there was a news report about a young man who has waited for five years to receive a necessary contract for user - controlled personal assistance that would make a big difference to him. I find this news sad to see that the council has long since decided that using personal help, a key factor in ensuring the disability of independent lives, is a legal form of service in Iceland, offering to all people with disability. It was adopted by a synonym and also by law in 2014 that it would have to be a permanent form of service and offer to all people with disability. But the highest. A minister had some part extended by two years for a particular test project on the user-controlled personal assistance, a introduction project I'd like to call. This was to become the 2016 law. For disabled persons in 2016, personal assistance was to be a legal option. Now it's 2016. The second section of the Ministerial Action Programme is decommissioned. Minister, at least for now. There's no sign of that bill. Why has personal assistance not been legalized as a service form, as the council has decided? And another question: A study was to be made on this induction project, how it would have worked, what the cost, what the benefits were, whether users or other people would like it. Now I know that this investigation is long over. Why has the conclusion that there is a very positive result of the user - controlled personal assistance, a very positive attitude of users, people in rural governments, people in this service - it comes out there, I understand that the improvement is much greater than the social cost. [[The president calls.]] Why has the report not been presented?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. Guðmundur The Steingrímsson for the inquiry, saying that the experiment was extended for something. Hv. A senator should recognize that the task was under his direction was delayed. Then there was thought to be a reason to extend the assignment so that we could get results. A senator is also calling for. I've been waiting for those results to come on my level. They're not here yet. It is based on who is, in fact, the proposal and frame that the project management will suggest regarding the legalisation of the user-controlled personal assistance. Then it is also mentioned in the question of why. A senator that he does not seem to know that this summer there has been a bill on the Internet for a review of a committee that I ordered to change the social services and laws on the affairs of disabled people who are asked to be legally hired by the user - controlled personal assistance. However, it was in the bill that the experiment project would be extended, something I don't agree with, and I wouldn't suggest. From what I understand, we've been worried about our communities. Where it is. A senator is a member of a team with people in a key position at least three if not four of the largest rural areas in the country, I would like to strongly encourage the senator to have a good conversation with his local representatives so that we can get settled over how we can work with the legalisation in good cooperation with the rural communities as I have always done. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u19	A respectable president. We have a good partnership with our local government on this and other matters. I don't understand why it had to be extended by two years. It was in my day that the head of Project Management made 50 NPA contracts in the country that provided the basis for this experiment project, an introduction project. It would have been possible to get involved very quickly and skillfully to evaluate the results of that assignment. Now a report on the results of this project has been made. I can't believe I'm familiar with the contents of this report, not the Minister. It may be of the highest interest. Minister on the case. I can tell you what's going on. A minister on the fact that, according to my knowledge, the pleasure is very great among users, the pleasure is very great among local people. There is a search for services in this sector where pleasure is so great. The report shows that social benefits are far more than social costs. Why does it have the highest power? Not only did a minister rent the Harpa, proclaim a press conference, the government has now made it of all kinds of resources during the election period, and proclaimed that personal assistance will be established by law, as the General Assembly has decided, and disabled people thereby offered human rights and independent life? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u20	A respectable president. I will surely wish for an explanation of why this is so. A senator has come up with information that I have not yet received.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u21	Reading at home, Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u22	In case of a moment. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is interested in getting involved in this discussion, I'm sure he may be able to set up a meeting board later. I'd like to reiterate that I have emphasized in my profession the use of the money for disabled people, in the interest of my clients, so I refused to suggest that I would rent the Harpa to this mission. However, I stress that there is a bill for discussion. [[Up front.]] I really hope that we can get together to resolve that matter, for I think that is a matter that we can all agree on. I'd like to encourage some guys, too. A senator is eager to consider that part of the problem now affecting the services of disabled people is people. Not that money is lacking, because that's when I've guaranteed it, but that there aren't enough people to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u23	V.E.G. President. There's some uncomfortable news coming out of the clinic. On the front cover of the newspaper, the concern of the regional director of the health care of the capital area in Grafarvogi was read up to 60 million. K. medical surgery in Grafarvogi solely according to the currently proposed plans. In this context, I'm going to ask the minister: In spring, we took in the United States and other minorities a very responsible stand in the payment of a bill for changes in health insurance law. They were to set maximum health care payments at 95 points. K. with pressure, we got it down to 50 o'clock. K. Max of a year. Then we shared in giving the minister additional authority to put on a service control that would, of course, increase the pressures of health care. We are confident that if a minister were not inside, there would be an increase in money on the health care. In a committee party, both the highest. A health minister had knowledge of and the highest. A financial minister from the Committee reported that 300 to 4,400 million people are to enter the medical facility right this year. It was money, not money, to finance new clinics. So I ask for an explanation from a minister and ask: "Why does it have 300 to 4,400 million? K. Don't you think it's a bill for financial support? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u24	A respectable president. It is true that health issues are now on the front page of the press, a magazine, in various ways. I don't know what to worry about. The senator's methods are the means by which we finance this system. However, in view of the current coverage, I would like to say. A member of the U.S. Senate describes the local manager of Grafarvogi as the statement at least in the News magazine that is quoted by some misunderstandings. There's a change in health care funding, I suppose that's what it is. A senator knows this system, both the sector that attracts the demands and the financial resources of the medical facility in the capital area, i.e. Money will be distributed in real time by the same formula for all stations, after registration of stations, disease burden, access and quality components. This will lead to another distribution of funds that were previously distributed in a certain way, which means that some stations will reduce their budget while others rise. I can see that those who don't understand this grin will have to give them a special chance to find out what this is all about. There is no plan other than to fulfill the promises made in good cooperation between government and government, when changes in the health insurance law were made. There is no plan other than to live up to it. I'd also like to mention this in terms of, just to remind you, that the changes made that talker in the News magazine will not take effect until February 1 next year. The next year's budget has not arrived. It's a budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u25	V.E.G. President. There's a big neighborhood in Reykjavík. If a new formula means a loss of medical services to this neighborhood, then this formula is ruined, so much I know. But I'd like to reiterate here with the Minister for our support on the welfare committee based on confidence that he and the highest. The minister of finance was in line with his word. The above article says: "There is more to life than there are in heaven. " K. in the current year. Very much. Ministers bring in this money between discussions? Or is he betraying our trust that, in fact, we were sharing in improving our health care facilities in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u26	Answer real time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u27	A respectable president. You don't seem to know what a real time is. All you need is a special course in it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. I have no reason to believe that there will be an increase in money on health care this year, as we discussed. My plans all stand for it, that it may be said. It's totally out of the map judging this funding system ruined by the news reports that came in the News News News. Naturally, the funding of each station is a concern. But this system is built on the basis of the fact that these are the financial resources of patients, not those of health care professionals. The budget we're setting is 6.2 billion a year, in patients instead of staff. We expect to do so, and it is necessary that the clinics be equal in their funding by obtaining a guarantee that they can serve the patient collection recorded on it, from 8,000 up to 15,000,16,000 people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u28	A respectable president. I vote with these changes and the whole case, but I want to help it be important that we review at some point the information collection of the Huns Bank. I realize that it is necessary, but it is the result, in my opinion, that we have an Icelandic dollar and economy, which is the nature of which we need methods that we might not otherwise wish to have. That is very important, as the time comes for us to reexamine whether we will keep the sources that have been obtained through the years to maintain financial stability. According to that, I vote with the case. Indeed, it is vital and absolutely necessary that this be done with responsibilities and caution, but we must not forget to reconsider this in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u29	A respectable president. Here we are referring to a public invitation that we have been working very hard during this terms, with good results. There are some factors that we are going to take a closer look at, so I suggest that the matter be discussed by the committee. This is interesting in many ways. One thing that we may first be dealing with is the problem of cooperating with the European Union. This makes it very clear what has become the nature of the European Union, which involves the administrations of governments who are not responsible for anyone and cannot be concerned. Those who have the best access to them are the big, classy girls, both drug and financial systems, and other things. Therefore, we are in this EU waste management business, which is specifically designed to increase the cost of high-cost products, such as Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We try to counteract this as much as we can. [[The president calls.]] This is a way to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u30	Mr. President. I wish to be taken into account between discussions, including the following: The share of rural society and the shopping rules. I think we should let our locals keep their shopping rules as they are today. There's not been any trouble with them or formal complaints about them. This is another expense increase for the rural communities that complain bitterly. This is not only due to the Commission's under-and then to the weight of rural funds due to tenders. It has been said in the case and in the argument of the European Union's support of rural society that this resulted in the proliferation of the cost of expert purchases, e.g. correspondent in Denmark and Norway This has changed the reference height. It's worth it, by reason of it. A senator before spoke about the European Union and all that, this is not in the directive. It's the government's decision to put it in this way. That's why I feel that we can totally handle this situation and, in fact, let our locals keep their shopping rules in the way they are today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u31	A respectable president. It is a joy to see that our transport program is finally on schedule. There have been many attacks to get her through. As a result, we have been disappointed that it did not succeed before, so we have not had the value of a transport program for the past two years. It is first reported that in the smaller part we support all the adjustments made in the section suggested in his committee. It may be said that because of the starving group of paintings in recent years, which are having a significant negative impact on the interior of the country, all the suggestions made in transportation can be accepted. It has been so difficult for us to look up at historical minimums in transport donations at the same time as tourism is growing and the pressures on roads to increase. As mentioned earlier, a smaller section of the Committee describes the support of the adjustment proposals of more part but wants to present the following comments along with the proposal for further changes in transport plans. The minority strongly criticize low transport contributions during this most ideal period and the problems of transport management. The smaller portion is estimated to be a growing strain on the country's road system, including the U.S. Because of the rapid increase in the number of tourists coming to the country, the government's responses to the transport program are called for. Transport contributions as a proportion of GDP in 2006-2015 can be seen in a picture in the minority of the Committee, which shows beyond any doubt how starving this group has been in recent years. In a question I meant at the highest. The minister of the previous winter simply gave an honest answer to a political decision made by the government to set different priorities. In other words, it was a political decision to contribute as little money on transportation as you can see. But it does. It has a tremendous effect that I will go over when we feel further. In 2008, transport contributions rose to more than 2.5% of GDP. Then important investments were attacked in the interiors of the country. However, since then, the proportion has remained in historical minimum, around 1.13/4.1.3%. In 2009 the proportion went down to 2.3%, in 2010, to 1.8%. 2011 it was 1.3% equal to 2012 and 2013. In 2014, when the government's budget was much better published, the ratio fell to 1.1% of gross domestic product. So right began to take place in 2015. This group of subjects has truly been starving, and it is obvious that contributions to transport have not been accompanied by a general rise in the economy in recent years, as well as a growing stream of tourists. In the chart on page 24 of this article, see the box on page 20. 2 shows the number of tourists who have arrived in the country since 2006. At the same time that transport contributions have dropped as much as they have seen, the number of tourists has been measured in two figures per cent over a period of several years. This year it is estimated that the number of tourists is up to 1.61.7 million. This means between 2015 and 2016, there was a 33% increase in tourist arrival. In the preceding year, it was 29%, the year before 23%. The previous years, 20%, 19%, 15.8%. Yet, there has been no basis for caring for important infrastructures, such as transport systems, which are the basis for reaching the goals of how we are going to distribute tourists more effectively in our country. In this context, I'm going to say, after a year's massage, it's a lot of joy to say that the more part suggests we in the smaller part, that a project like Kappos Road will finally be completed. Smalls have been a bit awkward about how they have carried out this project, and they are totally at odds with travel policy, which has been about spreading more and more tourists around the country. If this is to be achieved, the access to major tourist sites must be improved and the possibility to build up, e.g. a new gold ring, a diamond ring, or what we want to call it elsewhere, but only in the South. The same could be said of other areas, so I'll just take this one example. This is a cause for rejoicing, and all of us on the board are doing this, and we have always agreed that this is an example of a work that is of enormous importance if we look to professional development. We need to look for some of these when working with transportation. I know it's been a bit of the committee's will for more parts and smaller parts to do more on transportation. We've been that kind of light. On the other hand, the funds have been rather reluctant to fulfill the wishes made by the committee. In the smaller parts, we severely criticize the government for neglecting the transport system of the country during the time of this massive adventure in tourism, with an unprecedented increase in tourist populations and an increase in pressures across the interior. In most places, because of lack of maintenance, a situation is unacceptable. At the meeting of the Committee, representatives of the Roadmaker pointed out that an 85.9 billion will be required. Every year in maintenance of roads alone, but up to 11 billion dollars. It would be necessary every year to improve the overall safety profile with only this general maintenance. According to a proposal for interpretation of the transport plan as it already exists, this figure is 7 billion. That's how she came from the Minister herself. In other words, the minister's suggestion was not to keep onto investments that have already been attacked. With 7 billion, we still see the road system going down. It is not possible to maintain the road system and investments that have been attacked in recent years by 7 billion people. The majority of the committee points to our support that this number goes to 8 billion and is well off. But as mentioned in my case above, that is not enough. That takes 85.9 billion. You can always assume that it is nearly the amount that really needs. Then there is no adding in order to improve the road system according to increased pressures. That would require 11 billion. In our smaller section, material is available in this situation to increase the amount of money further, making adjustments in order to increase the amount of money to 9.5 billion so that we can reach at least to maintain the road system and to go on the way to update it and bring closer to the situation we wanted to see. We offer very responsible changes, changes that do not involve the high cost of our ability to cope with them each year in the years of 2017,2018. We hope that any member of the council will agree with us on this proposal so that the road can begin to look to the future for security and improvement in the road system. Although this is just a fraction of what they need, we at least set off on that mission. Thus, the construction of the road system could be resumed after a period of starvation and neglect. The minority of the Committee also considers it important for transport planning to be the knowledge and opinion of the experts in the field to appreciate and try to avoid random decisions. A clear work programme will be set up to take into account such factors as pressures and security and regional and job development criteria as to which to implement and how to plan for them. This is done to a large extent in the road and in the European Commission, but it is less likely to cover such arts or analysis when working with a transport program at the council. Then I'm not necessarily blaming just this council, but we can look back in time with this. Then there's a good focus rather than a cold assessment of the need I made of the views I mentioned. We also feel in part that transport programmes and effectiveness of individual projects should be determined by climate targets at the end of high opportunities to reduce transport emissions. They consider the less part of the part of the country to increase the share of national activities in the priority of implementation. I'd like to mention one of the cases that the committee fully agreed on having to attack, the Smokey Way from Fitum to Leifs Station. There is no doubt that this is the case. A greater part suggests a suggestion that we support our mind, a short - term solution consisting of setting up two laps that will matter to ensure and improve safety. However, when you think about these matters, it would have been better if you had a list of the sites and the areas where security is lacking so that we could evaluate objectively where to act. It doesn't have to be a problem like that. The project on the Smokey Lane. I think that's pathetic. It's easy to get such an analysis into a job, and I call for this to be done on an increasing scale, and we try to do more in this way. In addition, the smaller part believes that increasing the rate at which fossil fuels in transport are to be reduced and increasing the use of renewable energy sources. The smaller parts want to stress the variety of transport methods and feel that it is important to promote public transport and to provide better care for walking and wheeling road users. The smaller part calls for the forward implementation of special race management plans and plans for the growth of public transport as part of the transport plan. The other part suggests that the money will be placed in bicycle trails north of our mind. We know that bicycling is growing very much. So we are to look around the country in an organized way to make sure that we can make sure that we are driving. The minority also feels that it is important that good consultation should be made with the long-term transport programme and the safety, pressures and development of employment and rural development, will be carried out on priorities. As an example of projects that must be considered in the preparation of long-term schedules, there is the completion of a double-Sandjanes Way. With increasing tourist currents, the pressures on the runway have increased rapidly in recent years, and it is clear that projects are needed to improve safety, as set out in the Fits chapter and the terminal I mentioned earlier. This supports the rapid attack of ring-circuit improvements, but it strongly emphasizes that there is only temporary solution and that it will be attacked as soon as possible in the doubled road, with the function of the designated intersections. It also stresses the development of the Southland road between Whos and Selephos as a long - term plan, as well as the development of the bridge over Jölá, as well as the Laxyer Valley Shrew to Hurfjörður, Brefjörður, and Langanes Beach roads, for example. The minority also suggests that there will be a survey for Eelfjörður tunnels, a study of complete separation between Reykjavík and Akureyri, a serious increase in tourism, and a long-term plan will be carried out on biking and public transport across the country. The above tasks are not an exhaustive list but examples of projects that are time to evaluate and implement a long-term schedule. The need for clear vision and assessment of projects has become urgent in all areas of the country and places a high priority on priorities based on objective parameters. Again, the smaller portion seems to have needed even more money for maintenance, while the changes in the budget are being made. The smaller portion is estimated that it is urgent to add as early as 2.5 billion. to the funding provided for this transport program annually in 2017 and 2018. Our suggestions say that this is 1.5 billion, which is because our suggestions are actually added to the modification proposals of the greater part we support. We make adjustments to them, so it's inconsistencies between numbers. This is technical implementation. When people read our new proposal, they should think of it as an additional way in which the approved suggestions for the greater part are adopted. Then we also recommend 1 billion bucks. if inserted in addition to improve safety, including by reducing one-weighted bridges, by increasing funding for public transport, and by extending the following project to the current transport programmes as well as to those mentioned earlier. This is a project on the Dorass and Roads of Aarnesfjords that have become long since timely, as well as malarunate on the Forest Coast, road reforms at Dola, regional and network roads throughout the country, and that we cross the Öxi River immediately after the construction of the Berafjörður. I'd like to briefly mention the effort to reduce the number of one - sided bridges. The majority of the committee have made a choice of improvements, but we believe that there is a much greater need to be done and that 500 million each year will be added to the proposals of the more part and the existing transport program for the simple reason that when the road is asked for what one will do about one thing, i.e. The decline of one bridge, which may range from 200 to 300 million. 500 million each year to make the bridge grow are two bridges. Two of them. Although this may sound like a lot of money to build bridges, it is not really. There are few bridges that are behind half a billion. That's why we suggest that we add at least two each year to improve road safety due to increased traffic. In 2013 the budget was set up at 45 million. K. As a contribution to making walk bridges across the River of Mark. In addition, the funds for the project have been collected by other people. According to the Commission, the available funding for this work will now be about 84 billion. K. and is estimated to be about 130 million. K. lack of time for action and completion. The minority suggests that money will be provided to complete this project in the next budget. Increased cooperation with rural society in education, culture, employment, and service increases the need for strong local roads and the need for funerals when people are more and more common in the country to drive long distances each day. In view of this, it is important that priorities be worked out in hierarchical activities in cooperation with rural areas that take into account regional policy, job development, and safety issues. In this connection the smaller part will stress the continuation of the preparation and implementation of animal soils and marine soils for example. The minority would like to encourage that when large transport projects are assessed and prepared, their influence on the status of the sexes is appreciated. It sometimes seems that when transport is being assessed, the gender change is not taken in. An interesting evidence from research has now been shown, e.g. is being done at the University of Akureyri on the influence of Hyinn Strait Walking on the position of the sexes, which are extremely positive for the position of women in the surrounding communities. That's an interesting viewpoint I think we should look to more. We talk about it over and over at the council that in order to stay in the country, women's equipment and opportunities to work and enjoy life in the country may not be discussed often. That's why she hit me and I thought she was interesting. I think we should take a closer look. I think it's myself, so I'll make it up to you, that all the talk about hiking in the country goes too often in a bunch of holes, that you're doing some small group of people out in the country. I can't agree with that discussion. I can't believe we really want to talk about being built up by some city state, and then there'll be just a few heroes who keep it out of the country. That is not how we want it. If we're going to change this, reroute our settlements and strengthen the settlements around the country, we have to look for transportation. A variety of fun activities can be done in the community, but in the end it's about how fast and sure you get to health care, culture, and recreation, and even to work. To enjoy life and work much bigger. This happens with better transportation. I believe that at the time of development and urban development, transport should have a much larger place than it has ever been. We're supposed to stop talking about walking like there's something that's best for little groups out in the country. It's about how Iceland's community develops, how our country all develops and how we want to see it build up. In the opinion, the smaller part also reminds us of the sharp contribution of flying aeroplanes to the transport program, which calls for clear policy of the government in that area. In addition to the above, the smaller ones want to encourage cooperation with the rural areas in the capital area on the development and funding of a so-called city line, a new light - reading or fast - moving system, based on the regional structure of the capital area. Such a system would make extensive public transportation and facilitate a densely populated area of the capital, thus working in behalf of climate targets and reducing transport emissions of greenhouse gases. In this context, the minority reminds us of a synonym to consider the practical transport of trains presented here. paritaprevir Katrin, Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, was adopted by the General Assembly of 144th, where the Council decided to hide the Minister of the Interior to have the practicality of train transport between the Chefjord and Reykjavík's airport and the easy - to - read system in the capital area, on the other hand. That work was to be done according to the approval of the Generals to finish in the middle of 2016, and it is important that it be completed as soon as possible. Only about this further. It is a pleasure to see the interpolation of all the rural areas in the capital area, the public transportation and the better linking of the capital area to one another. It is possible to make things right for us who are sitting in the car in the morning, often a little longer than we wanted, and are trying to get us out of Hafnarfjördur or Gardavor or the Southnes into the city. There's something you need to do about it. We're not getting any less, we're just growing. That is why the organization of local governments around the capital area has to be viewed as a government, and it has to be worked out and taken care of. They've studied it, they've got ideas on how to ease traffic in the city by improving public transportation and other public transportation. I feel that we need to work with them better on this. There's no party political in there. There are larger areas of the community that are put together differently depending on the communities in which they live, but they still work together on these priorities. It's because it's not also participant, it's just a practitioner on how to get people around and thus improve the quality of life. According to this, the memory is a highly agreed process of transport, with the changes made by major objects and smaller items proposed in special Parliamentary documents. In 2017, we provide nearly 3 billion improvements and just over 3 billion improvements in 2018. We believe that a moderate addition is and we hope that more part of the council is prepared to take the step of coming with us to the additions, though only - and now I intend to beg the members of the council here, which, in fact, are not many in the territory but I hope they are in their offices listening - to agree to at least past where we're making more money for maintenance, 1.5 billion. We can, and so we make sure that we protect our previous investments, and we begin with an update on the road system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u32	Mr. President. I thank a senator for his speech. I'd like to ask her about a few things in this transport program, or that's not there. It is a good thing that she is finally looking at the day just before the election after the three - year session of that government. Undeniably, it smells a little like an election plan, even though we all agree that this money is going to run into the system, it's not gonna hide it. Then it seems that there has been some agreement between the Ministry of State and the Ministry of State until now. That's why I've found this to be an election taste for me. I'd like to ask you a few questions. In a speech or two. A leading reporter in the major part yesterday found that there was an additional production in the domestic flight of up to 300 million. Mr. K., I think he said. If I've understood why. I'd like to ask you about what's been done at committee meetings and if I'm right enough to cut the pay or the cost so that it gets cheaper for people to fly. This morning the Ministry examined whether the international flight was private or if Istavia continued the operation of international airports, i.e. the waltzes that have that position, and the making of the road takes the other. As a matter of fact, I think it's completely unacceptable, since the road's abject. I'm gonna start with this. I see my time is up. I'll add some questions later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. We have been so furious at the commission that people have not been able to agree with a transport program earlier during this term. As I mentioned in my speech, the Minister of Internal Affairs answered my inquiry so last year that people were just setting priorities differently and had made a political decision to keep the road system waiting. That's an honest answer, and all right with it. This does not change, however, that this year alone comes only 6 billion for maintenance when it seems that you need 85.9 billion just to keep on the lost projects that have already been under attack. It doesn't make sense. I'd like to get a positive approach and say, "Okay, if it needed an election to remove the stopper and get money into the system, then that. I know that all panel members have been pressured to get more money. Let's just give everyone what they have, but it's been about the execution of the project not ready for that. Then we'll just rejoice and be glad. I've said that any bitch that comes in addition to this group of bitches will be welcomed. With regard to the international flight, it is thought to try to cover the costs. It is expected that there will be the best way to try to distribute these resources, and it has been a political duty to try to meet special residents in the country and have to attend services in the capital area, whether health care or so - most often the things you need to go to Reykjavík - they can have some support to do so, because the price has become quite high. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think most groups agree to try to find ways to meet these costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This is what disappoints me. I agree with what. Senator, it's a good thing that this clot is taken out, but it takes an election. I agree with that and celebrate this plan, but it's actually pretty late in the butt, as it has happened to a lot of people and those who handle it. In view of the fact that the matter has been covered for three years, a report on what to do with domestic flights and the reduction of fare costs and all that, I feel that the matter is kind of at an early stage in view of the committee's opinion. I have made a point of saying that no report was taken. I find that very painful. I'm glad these funds are going to do the job. There is also concern that the Scottish route referred to repeatedly has not been examined all this time. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator into the financing of public transportation. They only talk about public transportation and their troubles. I, like many people, have been very concerned that there has been a great loss in these ways and that the northern region, especially among us, has been in a lot of trouble. Has this funding been discussed in the Committee, i.e. how to proceed? Here's a suggestion for 75 million. K. to meet congregations at a angle, but it is as if it is not formally accepted for a long time in terms of the oil reimbursement or such. This is just to handle the present position, not to the future, and not to see how the situation should be handled in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u35	A respectable president. Only again with regard to the pay and travel expenses for those living in the country. That is correct, this report was not discussed in detail, but various avenues were discussed. The decision was made to put the money into place and then let the professionals work to find the best way to get it out. There are potentials, as we know, and there is nothing in the EEA that inhibits it. For example. pay residents on land at Scotland's lower square fee. You can watch such a model, especially if you have to go to Reykjavík to see your doctor. I don't doubt that there's any way to find this money. Then I'd like to mention the public transportation. I agree with what. Senator. That's why we suggest 400 million. K. In 2017 and again 2018, to strengthen public transportation. Almost every rural society and part of the country that sent us envelopes requesting that the government come in a stronger way from public transportation, including the name of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. The oil charge. I think we're supposed to answer a call if this is to become self-sustained and so we can run the road properly and we don't always come on a break year after year because it doesn't show up. We know that while men are building something up, like a new public transportation system, as has been done in recent years, it can begin to be paid with it. [[The president calls.]] I hope that will change in time. In the meantime, we are happy to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u36	A respectable president. I want to do what others do, and I want to be happy that we are discussing a transport program and also celebrating the members of the Parliament's interest in this subject. It is a long, well - versed list that shows the importance of this group of litigators. I hope that a body of Congress will show attention to this category as well as to priorities in the affairs of the council. I've always said and consistently insist that transportation is the most important welfare issue. As I have often stated from this platform, there are about 200 people each year who are pretending or seriously injured in traffic, including accidents related to other vehicles. This puts tremendous pressure on the security services of this community and on the health system, the social security system, and other factors, apart from the social loss there will be. I think it's very important to take this action. So we also know that all transportation is the basis for so many other things, that increasing the work area, that there is economic management in both public and commercial businesses that provide increased economic growth and increase in government funds, that is the practical management of the households, and other things that enable us to place more money in the welfare system as such, which we all want to set priorities. It's all very important. At the beginning of my talk, I'm going to recommend the changes I've made to the transport program. In a way, it's a technical change. When we were winning the majority opinion, or case of the committee, and we made our opinion, it was not revealed regarding the situation and the campaign with General, but it was offered to General whether it would be a new business or a business agreement. Now that the proposals have been opened and covered, most of these indicate that the innovation is a far more practical way to go than a management contract and is now prepared within the road to settle such a matter. Therefore, you should expect that change in transport plans, money to build a new ferry, a new Navy. Thus, this adjustment suggests that 500 million people are coming in this year in 2016 to begin building the ferry, 1,700 million in 2017, and 1,400 million in 2018, when the ferry is due to succeed. Actually, this is a technical adjustment in which the funds in a financial programme are expected. We've agreed with a special law on the construction of Hermanns in the past, earlier in spring, and therefore this is a logical continuation and should be an easy case to accept, I believe. Then the transport process itself. It is a very diverse group of subjects that is of great importance to society. The talk about him has usually gone a little on the road, some roads, and a little stuck there. Thus, the overall effects of transport may not always come into the discussion. I began my talk by pointing out who they are and going to talk more about them in my talk. In order to inform us about the whole road system and its bridges, tunnels, and roads, and what is connected to it, all the flights, international airports and airports, not all the international airports at Keflavík, but other airports, the squares and service agreements on road strength, all the ports of the country, the strength to the ports, and the only ports that the state's own treasure is the landstay, the rest of the rural areas, and there's the strength against it, and then there's sea protection, which are crucial to protect the country's shores and so forth. So there are many things to take, and this is very varied. It is estimated that between 2017 and 2018 28.7 billion each year, but the amount goes up by more than 5 billion each year with the changes made by the majority of the committees, to be seen. When discussing transport matters, it is very important to make it the goal we want to achieve. To me, we're supposed to put traffic security first. That's what this is all about, to have safe transport. It can be achieved in many ways by both small and large projects. Many projects in the transport program contribute to safety and to the security and to the extent that we plan, and I do better afterwards. It is also possible to take a so - called star present and set the goal of making every road with 10,000 cars and more a day of five stars, all roads that have five to ten thousand cars on four stars, etc. This is how we can work our way down and set our goal for safe roads, five stars and five stars of cars, and then it's just after five star drivers, which I think will be difficult. 90% of all road accidents are because of human error, so it is very important to have the roads and cars reduced in order to reduce these mistakes and to address the mistakes safely. This will not cost nearly as much as a traffic accident cost us every year. In response to a request asked by a health minister at the council, it was found that a traffic accident cost an Icelandic community about 50 billion a year, 100% more than we put in the whole transport business each year. By taking part of the road system and making the roads five stars and four stars road, we should be able to reduce accidents while increasing law enforcement and monitoring, which can be done in a variety of ways, which will also be of great impact. It is also important to respond to the large number of tourists coming to the country. They're adding pressure to the road system. They are not used to our situation. Tourists also test the land's rural and commercial limits. All of this requires attention, welcome these tourists with safe roads, but let this also be done for the countryside by improving the road so that there is room for both the home and the community. It is often spoken of in this discourse the importance of uniting societies, that is, practical for practical purposes and other things. This is done only by means of good infrastructure, good roads, and transportation. When schools are being combined and increased, students must be able to move safely between home and school. We have such a suggestion in the greater part, e.g. To make a way over the river of Peace that was supposed to come together with the rural communities there and together in school. It's still coming back into the plan, and hopefully it'll be all right now. It is also relevant to the tourists, rural boundaries, rural communities, and the distribution of tourists in many parts of the country, regional and network roads, one of the most important projects. It is, therefore, a great joy that we make significant improvements in this way. It's extremely important, so it gets bigger. I think one of our major initiative projects is to build the national and national network roads across the country to distribute the tourists, to increase sectoral activities, and to increase traffic security. It compares to Iceland's campaign lightrelated, which is also important and may be part of the transport programme, but it is part of a communication plan. About 85% of all tourists travel through the South. As a result, maintenance is urgent there; improvements are urgent. It contains most simple bridges and is important to deal with them. So I would like to mention a few things about how things are being handled. As for the one - build bridges, we add 500 million to the estimated 300 each year for the next two years, so there are about 800 million each year to wipe out single bridges. Three of them should be reduced each year accordingly. Then I would also like to point out a new route across the Horn of the Earth, which is in a transport program that is now being started in the next year. This project reduces the number of one - build bridges by three more to what I mentioned earlier. We're getting ready to build a new bridge over Mústän, and they're reassigning a major plan for the Panorama. The cutoff plan in the road, not on Singles, but inside the road, allows for the reduction of one-burned bridges by up to five. Besides this, there are other suggestions for making new roads on Eastern Europe and elsewhere, and these are one - sided bridges. According to these programmes, we will see a significant decrease in the number of single bridges over the next few years, which is a great source of joy, and we are building up a way in which Euro RAP is an important road to traffic security, very risky, and also traffic - weight roads. It includes a great deal of joy and one of the most important challenges of transportation to double all the root roads from the capital area, using separate vehicles, making changes in this road, and separating road policies. These are the largest roads in the country, the Smokey Way, the Southland Road, and the West Sea. All three projects are in the transport program and have these adjustments. It starts now with 500 million. K. financial gain in the Southland road next year. In 2018 the road will be improved through Kjalarnes, and immediately next year, the so - called temporary operations at the Rhine Way, from Fitum to the air station, will be added to the calls of dangerous corners. In 2018, funds are expected to connect Hafnar Road to the pay phone with Fitjar. It is important that this happens as soon as possible to reduce the risk of these very busy roads. It is not just a variety; it is also varied. There's a lot of job structure at the airport, in Helga, and then there's an apartment on both sides of the road, and there's a lot of fishing and other goods going through that airport. This is important. Then there will also be the beginning of an assembly of roads at Krysavík and Smokeynes Way, so in this transport program, a handsomely continuing of two -fold Rhines track on either side. Then there's a 12-year plan that I want to point out. It is held in Parliamentary documents, a transport program until 12 years, and it is assumed during a second period, from 2019◯022, that the Smokey Way, from Fitum, will be doubled. The road made it clear at a meeting of the Committee that they had started preparing for them and that they had the funds that came from the future construction. This project is now under way, and it's a project that we're building here, phone mornings, it's not going to delay the project, which is important. I mention maintenance of the road. The National Association came together to meet us at the Committee meeting and put priorities in order, and I think we've managed to answer most of their requests for priorities. They all made maintenance roads, and we add to them. They covered a lot of local and network roads that I came in earlier. It is important that the funds are taken according to the analysis so that the road will assess the level of road pressure, where the risk is most likely from traffic safety and other factors. There are roads, such as Grindík Road, that are vastly crowded by tourists. There is the largest tourist location in the country, the Blue lagoon, and a lot of the fish transport of all the South and the other stuff that goes through it. It's the kind of thing you need to watch. They need to watch the South, where 85% of tourists drive and are the whole year, whether they are looking at the northern lights, over the summer period or at other times of the year. Of course, there are dangerous roads around the land that must be looked at. It is important that such pots are taken in a responsible and safe way. This is the main thing about the roads. There are a number of very important initiatives being made in the council resolution and our proposals to ensure traffic security and response to the tourist currents and to build up jobs in the countryside. I'd like to list some of the roads that connect with all of this, such as the Hornland River, one of the most dangerous roads in the Northwestern district, a great tourist road, a French river that is linked to a community and school together, as I came in, to Mount Skarstan Road, a very dangerous road in the country, a river of refuge, and a way to escape to the capital area, the Sólveins and Höunas, which increases the traffic in the area around Gold Falls and Geys, and there, and the development of the Tugun River. This can be continued for a long time. It's all about it. I'd like to know before the time ends to mention only the harbors and the flights that are very important. That is quite a bit of a waterfront in the transport program and in the rest of us. The ships around the country were all built at a similar time, or some 40 years ago, and the walls of the land are being damaged. One of our basic roads needs to be used, and they are important for our settlements, so they build up and provide a basis for a strong business life. I'm especially talking about situations where this can matter, like in the Gangsterate. There's now a lot of discussion over the fact that trade sources are being sold and others from the local community. But a strong harbor that can guarantee both ferry cruises, freighters, and so forth, if a strong harbor is built up there, you can create a lot of work around it. That's what's important to the tunnel. This is also true in my rural society, where the fishing road has been building much, as it did in Grindavik. This port is extremely important to the rural community, although the public does not see it with their eyes, but it is a lot of projects below the sea level. I was going to come in at the end of the world. How important it is that we find ways to strengthen it! That is why we have suggested 300 million in 2018, and then we are to consider whether to reduce the fare by reducing the law of the State and whether or not we should take some form of an assignment. I would also want to see if we can do this the same thing as with the harbors, that someone else is taking over the airports, who will find some work for the airports, and if they meet certain conditions, they can get the strength from the state to fire them, as the government strengthens the harbors, try to get a little life in the airport and find them. 20 minutes is not a great time to talk about the main interests and goals of the council. I look forward to having further discussions with all of you about them in the coming days.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u37	A respectable president. This program of transportation to 2018 is the most painful form of transportation that has been proposed, at least since I attended a council in 2009. Not only is it late, but it is far from putting enough money into the transportation system after two years. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, co-star of the Committee's review of the share of the Environment and Transport Committee, is a historical minimum in transport donations. The road has estimated that until 2018, about 400 billion dollars must be spent. to transport if transportation is to be comparable to what happens in our neighboring countries. However, according to the government and the government budget, the budget for transport over the next 12 years is nearly one quarter of what needs to be done. This transport program only reaches two years. But there is not even enough funding left here to maintain the roads. Know them all who want to see what conditions are like in the country and how rapidly the road is breaking down, especially after the rapid increase in tourism that we see here each year. A greater proportion of the transport and environment committees have undergone a number of changes in the transport process. It is interesting, 22 adjustment proposals for the same board of directors, and a majority of the committees. Nine guidelines for port and five flight transport suggestions, i.e. Suggestions for a total of 11 billion dollars. in the next two years. It is not too much to agree with all the suggestions and has been suggested by the less part of the committee that this will be done here at the council, since the need is urgent. But a smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee has, as noted in the previous committee review, probably because of this same, added a number of additional improvements, in addition to the main points, which would certainly wish to be agreed. It would be a challenge for the Council to leave this ambitious document unscrupulous and to accept all the added benefits made from both a position of government and a smaller part of government. For example, there are 400 billion leftovers, and many used future income resources, including some of them. unregistered resource expenditures. Thus, money should not be lacking in the center of kindness, even if it had no other value than maintaining roads. Our transport system, not just our roads, but our whole transportation system, has been a success in recent years. Many people with concern, the organization of tourism, law enforcement, rural areas, and others, have expressed considerable concern over the harsh conditions of transport workers, especially the roads. The situation is bad on national level, but the parts of the country are not well off on transport. According to the Economics of the West, which came out earlier this summer, it is clear that this situation is the worst in the Northwestern District, especially in the West and West. The economy is based on statistics from the road type and polls among the people and companies in the area around traffic and the state of the road. The evidence reveals that the northwest corner and the Westland run the train when it comes to a number of roads that are bound to break. In the northwestern country, about one third of the roads are bound to fragments, while the western region, in its secondmost position, has a 39% cut off layer within the region. In contrast, in the Southnes, 84% of road roads were bound in 2014, while traffic since 1980 has increased relatively to Western countries compared with e.g. Smokeynes and Southland. I don't mention it to evaluate the Southlands or Southnes for the road money but to make a decision that we have to keep the bigger picture in view when changing public funds. Aggression between parts of the country is especially a matter of transportation, since transport is a vital source of community life. They depend on employment and all the habitat development. To attain it, comparisons need to be made, often and often. But, in this light, it is good to know that less part of the environment and transport committee should be included in their Committee points to the need for urgent road improvements in the West and the West. In the context of the latter part's list of the need for effort in the national and international roads, but especially in the case of the need for road construction, where the road is unsurpassed and directly harmful to motor vehicles; in the Aarnes field where there is still no way to talk about whole - wound transportation; on the wood coasts and in the Dara, where there is an increased incidence of accidents in the Western land. The valley settlement is the fifth most dangerous road system in Iceland according to the practicality I quoted earlier. We know that increased traffic in recent years has been accompanied by an increased incidence of accidents. Outside the capital area and the southern regions, where traffic is highest, the incidence of accidents was highest in Western, Western, and Northern countries. So I take my heart to suggest my share of the Environment and Transport Committee that already 2.5 billion are being added to the budget provided for maintenance over the next two years and a billion more to improve road safety. It's a lot of work and it's urgent. As a road manager has noted, foreign tourists are not accustomed to driving under the conditions available in the Icelandic road system. So here you need to understand that road policies, single - edged bridges, shape corners, and increase the number of rounds to name just a few. But if I stick to a lot of projects in my district, where I know the best of what they can do, it's obvious that there's still no water in the water or in the hellholes. In this suggestion that transport programs are not expected to be funded on D.C., but we discussed the benefits of making the Sunway our own. Although the tunnel is hardly mentioned in the program, it can be clear that it has little more traffic than the current situation. Spain's agreement with the State is about to expire, but there is no clear evidence of further implementation, either on the behalf of the Spartan or on the official side of the current news. Of course, there is concern in view of the ever - increasing speed of traffic that is already going near the major footways to and from the capital and the Halfland tunnel. Then I'd like to mention another project that everyone sees and knows is urgent but is not mentioned in transport programmes. There are Eelfjörður tunnels, tunnels between Skulls and Eelfjörður, between Isafjörður and Seysavík, to replace the infamous Seaslíðar. It is a large traffic security issue for all the daily travel between Susafjörður and Isafjörður in winter, including children in school cars. During the winter, the Slysavík road into the Deep is the main transportation point of the people in Isafa in the highway system. There are 22 definitions of avalanches, and in a few days, there are fine weatherlines. That happened a few years ago. At that time, 20 avalanches fell on the tip of aerodynamic slope, pushing all the rocks and resources from the island. The circumstances formed there were unacceptable to northern Western citizens who attend health services and other basic services for Isafjörður. The reports show that the rise in avalanches has been due to changes in the weather and the prevailing winds that cause avalanches and floods in the slopes. Thus, a year, 56.2 avalanches were measured in the Slysavík of 1991◯2000, compared to 42.7 on the deadly ashicle that has now been replaced by a tunnel between Isafjords and Bolungarvík. Exploitors have noted that a tunnel is the only action that can ensure security on this route, as well as that it would significantly shorten the distance between communities with the potential for communication, employment, and service in the areas. So this is a subject that needs to be addressed. During my last term, I moved a synopsis proposal that Eelfjörður Straitways would already be installed on a transport program as the next trajectory in the West following animal trajectories. The matter could not be resolved. I made the same suggestion again for our last spring with the support of all the Norwegian-western district members, but the proposal has not yet been implemented. However, it is urgent to take this matter as a professional consideration and put Eelfjörður tunnels in the priority of transport. Therefore, it is a pleasure to see that the less part of the environment and transport committee suggests that there will be an attack on Eelfjörður surveys for the construction of Eelfjörður. I remind you that in 2006, 1,439 people in the north of the West signed a challenge to the government to start them when research and preparation for a scaffolding project between Susavík and Isafjörður from social and safety issues. A fourth link between the Western Union has often been concluded on the same subject. A respectable president. Finally: This transport program is far from meeting the basic needs of our transport activities, not the roads, ports, or flight projects. Some are beyond human control. The problem of shipping in the Gufu Valley and the Coastal Coast, i.e. The route through the Forest of Chets has run aground on other than governments. There's nothing to do about it. The animal tunnel, on the other hand, has fallen from rock. They were suspended in another part of this government at the beginning of the terms. Walkings that have enormous significance for development and the potential for living and living on the West, link job and habitats, administrative institutions and rural communities, tunnels according to the first geochanic programme were to become the first geograph are now being reached. Guð will tell you good, and hopefully there will be no more delay. But you have to admit, you're afraid. Although the government's plans for transportation are a low priority, as this program shows, it is important that it be accepted in order to be done in transport. It is also important that all the changes made and supplementes with the projections from both the majority and the smaller parts of the environment and the transport network are approved here at the council. When the European Commission fails, the council must take action. This should be done by the General now. The money exists, and everyone knows that there is a need.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u38	V.E.G. President. We are finally discussing a proposal by the government for a transport program in 2015-2018. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee, what? paritaprevir Þórhallsson, who carried the Commission's opinion on the greater part, explained that there has been no transport plan in force in the past few years, i.e. A short plan. I don't think anyone would have handled that case as well as that. The head of the Commission, a representative of one of the board's members, is traced to this committee's opinion of how these short, short, transport programmes were created, including last year, when more part of the environment and transport committee recognized it by their work to suggest that the decision to make a resolution of Congress from the highest level. The Minister of Olöfu Nordal proposed not to do anything; Iceland's record of transport to do nothing. That's the way it was. When the more part of the last council proposed additional projects and more payment, the matter simply stopped. Therefore, he now has it here once more for these years to create a transport plan so that she can get the approval of the Allegis and the Vegas and others who need to cooperate with it would then have an agreed transport plan to work on it. It came first of all because of a conflict between the highest. The Minister of the Ministers of the Ministers of Transport and the Government Directors who stopped this last year. It is appropriate to draw this out here, though, because much of it is to be said to praise that there are many suggestions and suggestions. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, a representative of the Environment and Transport Committee, reviewed it well in the I.A. section of which she declared that many of these proposals were improved and that it would probably be helpful to support suggestions on further projects. The first page in the opinion of a smaller part of the transport committee will discuss how the transport contributions of GDP have been from 2006 to 2015. Then we will see that the lowest ever to be seen is in the first year of this government, i.e. In 2014, where this is going right above 1%, slightly more in 2015. But there are also 2008, 2009, and 2010, which are the most successful years of transport in Iceland, as we know. Thus, in 2008, during a difficult year, the ratio up to 2.5% of GDP. People must always keep their minds on the interaction of other factors in this regard, but it was given in and there we also enjoyed the decision that was made by the Supreme Court. Governments to contribute to transport because of the difficulties that resulted from the 2008 economic collapse, on the one hand to create work, have something to do for contractors and others, but as well as the need and good work to build up land, as well as, of course, often of course, to increase the security of transportation. This is worth remembering because it is in those years when the then government of 2009 inherited between 220 or 230 billion dollars, if I recall correctly. which was so processed with blood, sweat, and tears, and often with a bad taste in the mouth because of cuts and changes in the system. All of this, however, was in rebuilding our economic independence and in working to make the state funds at a loss. I do not hesitate to say: This government inherited what had been done last year and can so proud of what has been done since then, but the work of the previous government is worthy to bear in mind in this regard. Of course, a number of lottery fans get involved in it, like a huge drop in global oil prices, a number of tourists coming to the country as never before, so predictions of the statistics of the banks have never come true; visitors have been much greater than anyone has planned. It is also worth keeping in mind that the last government made a conscious effort to try to get more tourists to the country, more currency in its country. It has certainly paid off and is a part of economic restoration, along with the arrival of a single species of fish in Iceland, see the mackerel, and a good year tour with a lot of fish being fished, etc. This, along with other factors, is the basis for what has been done in the financial affairs of the country that makes them in the good ports. As a result, the members of the board of directors are expected to accept changes in transport schemes to expand their implementation and take on a number of important tasks. I don't know where to best start in this transport program. But I'm going to start by talking about the intensification in general and taking as an example some projects that have led to great success, a work to be done by the State, i.e. Strategies and tasks to come upon, privates, public companies and unofficial, etc. It's only natural that I might first take what I know best, The Fear of the Landways, which were opened on the autumn days of 2010, then a great project. It is a large and large piece of work that was critical at a time in terms of performance speed, i.e. In the 2008 and 2009 financial collapse, but fortunately it was solved. The foreign contractor who was involved in the project with an Icelandic contractor said: "We have never left a job that is half finished, and we are not about to adopt it today. They wanted to finish despite difficulties and ganglocks, etc. So, what has happened in the course of that, a respectable president? I can say, for my hometown and the Mountain in general, that this was a big deal. Much has been done since then, by the local community, by general companies, by the local public, and by a private member who has built a magnificent hotel and restaurants and impressive tourism. The towns have been full of tourists ever since. Tourism is abundant, and many other factors are thereafter. This may be the most clear example of rural society that had a problem with defenses. I do not hesitate to insist that this is primarily due to the appearance of The Bible. All of this will follow. In other words, I am not sure that what has been done in the construction of Sigludar would have been done if Sigludur had still been a final stop some 90 miles [90 km] from the highway in Skavegur, or some 60 miles [60 km] away from Akureyri in the summer or 120 miles [120 km] from wintertime. This may be one of the most clear examples. Let me give you another example of the country's construction of Bolungarvík. They have completely made a difference, have been laid off by a dangerous road through Ophem, and have been taken into use at a similar time and are much more likely to have been applied. It has been a prerequisite for the development of various developments in the north of the West and in Bolungarvík, and it has certainly paid off. The exact same thing will happen when a promise finally comes up for the next year's opening of a new North Ground march, unfortunately not in the fall as it could be done, i.e. If governments had taken action, however, the road was suggested for a year and a half that if the money grew up, it would be completed and the tunnel opened in December of this year. If so, we would have escaped the difficult road that is one winter earlier. It's gonna make a difference, too. I'm not sure I'm going to take V.I.A. Pass as well. I make that clear, because there is still the bad thing about the construction of a Venal march that reassigned other projects, tunnels, or other means of transportation, that it is wrong, completely wrong. It does not come from a wealth of money as a contribution to the project. The action on Vadle Passes has not pushed any other tasks back. Of course, they were borrowed from a government fund after discussions with the pension fund were not successful, mainly because the talks showed that the pension fund wanted to grow too much compared to predictions about future growth and to the status there. It has to be said at the moment, the more dignified president, so to recall, that the pension funds were completely different in their talks about the construction of Vault and their financing than in transport reforms that were to be done in the capital area and turned around to and from Reykjavík. This was solved by a reimbursement of the state's funds due to unexpected incidents that have come up in the much spilling of water, largely boiling hot water on the other side of the French Valley, excessive large amounts of cold water, etc. These are the factors that are always uncertain when it comes to soiling. It's gonna cost money, and it's gonna cost a delay. But in the end, to be told, it is those who pass through the tunnel that must pay the additional cost of the unexpected and unfortunate events that have occurred. They'll pay for the road, not for 25 years, but maybe for 30 years. However, the point is to bear in mind that the ever - growing traffic around the Viking Passes is to expect that much more happens in traffic around the Venal Passways when they are in use, and also to remember that never was expected, in the models prior to it, carried out on the Backka, and increased traffic due to them, it was never done, but the better carried out at the Back did not work. We're talking about going to an animal tunnel next year, hopefully it'll be done, and we'll discuss further research for the Steadroads. I think that then I ended my discussion about a tunnel, but I can't help reminding myself of my proposal to be held by Congress thinking that the road will be assigned to do research on a new tunnel between Sigurfjords and river that led them off the bad way of the public and Kid tunnel that was a child of its time and should never have done at the place where they are; there is a proposal to do it, but it has not been established. That will be carried out after 10 years or 15 years or who knows what. General with another road model, a respectable president. I have talked about the need to make more money on the road, and following it always involves the members of each district. You should be a specialist in your own district and in your territory. Opponents call it a ball, that's okay, they can have the words they want them to say. But we know the area, we have meetings with local authorities and residents, and we know how to listen and bring out what is discussed with us. I take as an example various improvements to be made in my district. Here's the money paid in to finish up the Kappos Road, but, as we remember, it was in the past. The local minister of Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who was tagged by the ear-marked "Greasure" was taken into the general hold of the country by a promise that money would be maintained for the next year and turned to Rock Road. It was betrayed. It was not up to us. That's why it's necessary to suggest completing Jiggle Road as this one assumes. But it will be four or five years later than it had to be. And I can't pass by, most respectable president, talking about other roads at the northeast corner. At the time I was speaking here, in 2009 and 2010, the way was finished at the northeast corner, the road to Raupfarve, and the Way of Avenging, a great assembly of transportation, and the road to weapons. There's a chapter left at this corner that's quite insufficient and needs to give, but there's not enough to be done in my opinion. Then, on the other hand, I'm talking about the road through Brenhönach and the North East Road on the Longganes Way to the Sun and then another chapter that follows. In the inquiry I made here at the General Assembly on this matter, the roadmaking responds very well and brings out all the information as it is expected and referred to. It is very interesting to have that in consideration when discussing these matters. The same is true of Langanes Beach No. 85. It may cost nearly 1 billion, on the one hand through the British Catastrophe, and then there are other figures about the rest of the chapter. There's a very bad piece of worm coming this way from Thors Harbor to the ground of weapons, if I may zoom it up like that. I refer to this document, a respectable president, who is a candidate. 387, in response to this request, to the images and information specified in it. They need to be kept in mind. But if I remember correctly, the suggestion of the greater part is put in here to start this piece, but it's too small. These roads can continue in general, and I reiterate what I have previously said about the need for these projects. At times, there are disagreements between the members of the country and the capital because of the projection and selection, and it must be kept in mind that the northeast corner I was talking about is a road that I think is comparable to the roads in the capital area 50 to 60 years ago. There are still hollow roads with hills, hills, blind turns, and such things as are utterly inadequate. That is why we, members of the country, voters, have maintained our views and demands so strongly and have pointed to the need to contribute more money to transport; we have discussed a transport program to work out these roads that look like roads here 40 to 50 years ago. Here's a little step in that direction. A respectable president. I think we need to look for new ways to get paid to finance the road system. Then I don't hesitate to say that it is the future of having standard equipment in cars, a certain chunk, which then goes up in a satellite where it is registered, a place and a time, where people are going. In this way you can raise more money and save from oil tax and gasoline. I then agree with what has been said in human speeches that it is very interesting that in the time of this government, oil and gasoline costs have not been raised. It is part of the budget that has characterized the transport programmes of this government so far, they have been plans for virtually nothing at all. [[The president calls.]] There is a small amount of communication now, but it can be better if it should be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u39	A respectable president. Today, so after lunch break on this fine day, that according to the council plan, the end of this afternoon is now. Since we have not been informed of any other plans for anything else, I assume that this will be done and that the council will be suspended here at the end of the day and no further meetings announced during this most elected period. But if the president of the council has any other plans than those that can be used in a revised work programme, I think it is important that he introduces them to members of the council. We must then request that a meeting of presidents with members of the House and review the plans for the Continent, if there are any plans to be made above the top, or anything that might be presented. This incomprehensiveness has become so indiscriminate that it should, in fact, be called off trials, as a work programme assumes. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u40	The president believes that there must be some contact with the leaders of the smaller section, and these matters will be discussed sooner or later, another is unnatural.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u41	A respectable president. I would like to thank the President for making it clear that this request is perfectly normal, considering that today's work schedule is running out of place. It's totally unnatural, except for us to sit over it in some way, councilmen, what's going on in the hands of a president. We can't go in next week without some plans available for what is on the part of the section. We have repeatedly pointed out that we are in a void. It's absolutely out of control here. There is no vision that comes from the Ministerial Class. It is a song for the Council itself to take matters into their own hands, for President to put his arms around the situation that has come up and put it into place today and at a time when it is realistic to do what is right. We need a meeting, a respectable president, with the highest order. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u42	President. Thank you so much for the answer. It was precisely stated at a regular assembly meeting on Monday morning that the directors of the board would arrange for a meeting with the presidents of the government. This meeting has not been arranged. The purpose of the meeting was to be just a work plan and a purpose for it to be changed. It expires today, and there has been no new schedule. I don't think that's an acceptable thing to do. I would like the president to invite a meeting today with members of all classes of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u43	A respectable president. I've been sitting here for the first time at the council many times, terrified of the omnipresent that is in equal proportion to the council board's administration. Because I'm one of the senators who are disappearing at the end of this election season, for this reason, I'd like to say, that it's not advisable, of course, that at least at all, there is not an option. a weekly program that is published to members of the Parliament so that they can prepare for the events ahead, prepare their talks, read them carefully, and prepare themselves for discussion. It is a way of ruling to cover up and not to give up plans. It is a management method that has been given bad names in administrative and administrative studies and is called exercise of power. Sadly, this abuse of authority is customary at the council, and not necessarily one part of government rather than another. [[The president calls.]] I agree with members of Congress that this time the appearance of the end of the next few days will appear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u44	Madam President. It is now now more than 2:30 p.m. on the last day of this council according to the schedule. That is why it would be unnatural to call to the highest level. The president was meeting with members of the council to see what lies ahead. We must remain until we are told to assume that we are completing our work at this legislature in a few hours. I thank you for the answers to the highest. The president mentioned earlier that it was normal for such a meeting to be preached, but he also wants to reiterate that it is a very short time to go. It's really a matter of hours. Now you need to have quick hands and action on this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u45	A respectable president. I want to say the word with what. paritaprevir Kjerúlf by the Þorvarðardóttir, who said before that it was a abuse of power that had become a custom here. It's bad habits. What I find boring also now, and especially sorry is that at the government stand, we decided to change how we approached things and the Senate by just looking at things and doing them as well as we can through the council, not to sue a hostage in an attempt to create a contract and call out for a conversation, which is the usual method. What do we get for that? A complete silence. It is now September 29, the date advertised on the front page of the Senate's press release as the final date for the Council's work schedule. We're not hearing anything from government leaders. [[The president calls.]] This is not welcome. Is this really so that we are being called for to adopt the strategy in which we try to establish a contract with a proprietary at the council? We're not interested in that. But that's what's being asked us to do with this silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u46	Madam President. I'd like to join this call after a meeting of the council groups with presidents and thank the President for her words earlier. Of course, it's really annoying that we're here on the last day of the Senate as planned and it's in the air that she's not to stand. This is not only intolerable to the council and to us here but also to the thousands of Icelanders who organize themselves from observing the council on the Internet and on television. It is a democratic question, simply, that there is some idea of what the work here at the council is like. I'd like to state that I met the directors of the board this morning at a town volunteer meeting. It is a matter of democratic participation in the field of choosing whether to attend a meeting or to observe the General Assembly. It is very important that we know what the rest of the Order's work should be, not just from us, but from the public and his democratic involvements as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u47	President. As other members of the council mentioned above, I would like to be impressed with the fact that nothing is heard from the council president on how to complete a council. For himself, he has my sympathy because he has it under government directors to tell us how long next week's council will be or whether it's going to take weeks more. It is because of the inadequacy of government leaders to settle matters and to make it known to us what they want to stress before the council ends. We don't know. Neither does the president of the council know this because they cannot be drawn to tell him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u48	A respectable president. I welcome the words of a sitting president when it was stated earlier that it would be unnatural not to talk at this point. I'd like to inform a respectable local president that this has been happening since the end of the last week. On Monday, the talk was made on Monday or finally on Tuesday. So now that we're going to point out that we're just supposed to talk, it's going to be a part of the board. I hope a respectable sitting president, who also has a bad temper. 6th. That's the north side. For their independence party, go to their party members, and inform them of this abnormal situation, which a respectable seated president has noted to be there. There are young people here, I think, at the villas looking at us at the last day of the council. This is the situation that's up. Do you think it's a good idea at the Council? When people here are watching us, should we not be showing them the best they can do? [[The president calls.]] It's a disgrace, a respectable president, and the more part of it has to fix it. [[The president calls.]] He has had ample opportunity and motive. It's just about to get up and do something intelligent. It's not complicated. [[The president calls.]] This isn't fair. It's all right. It's all right. It's simple and it's been simple for days.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u49	Madam President. We're here on the last day of the council according to a plan. It's a special job, the Allied, the Lawgiver. It would be strange somewhere that workers - representing the nation, we here, 63 senators - didn't know what the next week looks like. If the director wanted to give up except perhaps in part at the workplace. That's how it looks to us, the smaller part, we don't know anything. It seems to me that the situation is that we are being held hostage in the forwarding party, where there is no prerogative for who is elected the head of the forward party, who is not to be negotiated. That's just the way it is. Congress stands and falls by who becomes the chairman of the forward party. [[The president calls.]] Gallup had already checked this out for us, can't we just start making a deal with the one Gallup has thought to be working in that election?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u50	A respectable president. It's a strange situation to be in, working at this workplace, and you're asking for a conversation about how we can get things done here at the council, how we're going to conduct it like men doing at work. I've been through this many times in other places. You keep in touch with others, and they sit down and meet. But here no one wants to take the conversation, and if we politicians didn't get a thick file, you'd take it personally. Why don't they talk to us? Although the forwarding party has its problems, we have the head of the Independence Party, the minister of finance, the leader of the other administration party. He can't talk to us? What's this about not answering a meeting party? I think it's really rude. I don't think there's a job market known to you that people don't talk to each other. And having to stand here and complain about it in the front of the nation, that's ridiculous. [[The president calls.]] It's just that we're some monkey cats, not us, but more of the thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u51	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm very sorry about the position that's come up. Now it happened in April that suddenly the world's sights were focused on Iceland because we tried to be with the heads of the government in the Panamas. We were on the pages of the magazines and in the media all over the world because we met, and three cabinet ministers of the Icelandic government were in the Panamas. It was a disgrace. The world looked at, how is Iceland going to sort this out? What's Iceland going to do about this? What happens is that the prime minister resigns, the secretary of finance sits fast, and now it is the situation, when we are here on the last day of the Senate for the election, which was hurried because of this matter, that the council is just like an expedite. Is it not fitting for the president to try to keep at least the rest of the Allied Council of Iceland, even though the execution was indeed a disgrace?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u52	A respectable president. It's a familiar situation, and it's always as surprising and it always sucks that, when there's a limited time, and there's a lot of cases waiting for us to pay off, the directors of the board can't sit down, can't tell us what they want, can't give us a list of the things they consider desirable to be, and the smaller things also come in and try to process this situation. This is something that just needs to happen. Why on earth does that never happen? In the past, the Presidents of the Generals have always had room to focus on the work. We've had a president who's stepped into a series of events and simply decided that there would be no meeting until there was some plan coming from the greater part of how they could see the end of the council. This can be done by the President. [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that during this term, the President of the Generals has not used himself. [[The president calls.]] I'm critical of that. He is to use much more of his power in order to be a proper body of Congress here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u53	Madam President. These are the days when you may find the least enjoyable here at the council, but there are a number of cases in the winter and the coming council that is about to be completed, and the government has been fully involved in them. In fact, the chairman of the council has protested the government's opposition to a good cooperation and praised her for her lack of language. Now it's time for the work programme to be concluded today. It's one-third of the major part, members of Congress, right here in the house. They are obviously doing their business somewhere else rather than participating in a conversation with us on the important issues of transportation, except a few. Of course, it is unannounced that a schedule can not be held, as it was earlier, as a week at a time, although it can, at least, be moved by some way, there is at least something available. This isn't a good thing. [[The president calls.]] First and last, though, to Einar thesson of the Kristinn Guðfinnsson, the highest. Minister, to take...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u54	President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u55	... President, putting his arms around the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u56	A respectable president. I wanted to agree with it. paritaprevir Olinlin Þorvarðardóttir Þordóðurdóttir spoke of an organization earlier. The person standing here takes the very serious task of being a member of the council and of the discussion here and feels very important that we members of the council have the opportunity to prepare for the discussion and the work here at the council. I just wanted to point out today's program, that after discussing the four-year transport programme 2015-2018, the Agency is on schedule: the creation of an intermediate level, the general market, stock development, interest and security status, i.e. consumer security loans, and support to buy at the first apartment. These are all very important matters that are not to be discussed at some point. I wonder, if the discussion doesn't end today, will there be a meeting on Monday to discuss that subject? It's very important that we get a meeting with the highest power. A president to discuss this and get some vision in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u57	A respectable president. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to share a little lexico to those very up there, explain what's going on less than one minute. What's going on is that the Council now has quite a bit of time, for years, worked so that the only way for so - called smaller parts, which are in a position of government, is to get into some conversation with the greater part, is to waste time, spend quite a bit of time, and to create pressure. It's a tradition that was taken away in us in the efforts of my share in trying to improve the Senate work. The lesson we are learning this week, on the last day of the Generals Work Programme, is that it does not pay to be materialistic, that it does not pay to discuss matters just to discuss them. It pays to waste time, it pays to be boring, it pays to be a lousy senator to get an audience of the rest. That's the lesson we're learning today. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President, that I had to share this lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u58	A respectable president. In fact, it is good to take time from time to time to reflect on the campaign on the work of the Generals. We know that during the last term, the honor of the Allied Council was severely discouraged. This was the last reason why the government's opposition to the people was so intense, including some of them. In the conference of technical tackles, the council suffered damage as an institution. Now this has changed during this terms, especially since the government has resolved to take decisive action, taking care of the respect of the Generals, and it has paid off. But it's not coming back, it seems, in cooperation with those who are in charge of this institution. Lack of information, incorruption, and failure to get the conversation, as mentioned above, is to become an acidic atmosphere and not to improve the work of this high meeting as the legislature meeting. [[The president calls.]] So I agree with the people who have spoken here, and I insist that, of course, they have to sit down with members of the council and give details about the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u59	A respectable president. I agree with what we've learned here that being put in a situation where we need to talk or to lead in order to force the government to talk to us. I find that an apocalyptic proverb of the evil, which, when you put us in that position, is kind of offensive to me. I would like to direct it to a respectable president, who seems to be some kind of contact between the council and the government, to promote that now something has to happen in these matters and even if it had been before. We're not going in here next week like nothing's happened. And listen to the highest. Secretary of finance says it here yesterday or early that the painting just comes forward, we'll just see how things turn out. It is not acceptable to make statements like this. It is the role of a respectable president to conduct the council and to ensure that we shall conclude a proper assembly. [[The president calls.]] If you need help from some of the Presidents of the North who have experience with this case, all you have to do is fly them in.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u60	Madam President. Of course, this is an amazing situation. Now that there are only a few hours left in the council, the members of the council have not been invited to a meeting, and we have a program that seems to have two issues on it. What is it? How does someone think that we should be able to handle matters and complete them in a matter of hours? Since we as senators must be more important than what we want to do, we want to make such an payment. This, of course, only underscores the fact that there has been no policy here. For weeks the program of the Generalis has been completed today. Hence, there is really nothing more to do than call back and forth because we are going to sit down and meet. We're simply running out of time here. [[The president calls.]] We can't go on like this, and then nobody knows what or if anything happens on Monday.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u61	Madam President. I can think of these students here, and a couple of teachers and former Deans in here that you can sort of put this into play. Suppose a teacher attends a class but does not comment on what he is going to do, what he will be on the program, what he will learn, what students may know before midnight, but should arrive at eight in the morning. [[Take it up: And there's a test.]] - And then there's a test, yeah, it's kind of like that. That is exactly what we are facing. What I find unacceptable, too, is that the Chairmans have begun to present meetings next week, despite today's work schedule has expired. There is also something to wonder about. Is it okay that we have a meeting here when conversation with the government has not taken place on how and if it will be a council next week, which we expect to meet next week? At least I'm sorry. Could not connect to torrent %1. I don't believe that much of today would, but if they were in our position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u62	Madam President. In spring, the current government announced an election in the fall and not because of nothing, because of scandals and corruptions. We are now on the last day of a work programme and it's as if this government can't let go. She will try to get as many things go through by giving up nothing and continuing to press things through at the last minute. It's a total disrespect for the council and the nation. Of course, the requirement for democracy is that the people who are now making themselves available for the work of the nation as members of the people, representatives of the nation, at one time, go into the districts and present their own policies. Democracy is being stepped on with this kind of tactics, continuing blindly, moving on, and not giving up. [[The president calls.]] Are we in the 21st century or Middle Ages here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u63	A respectable president. I want to do my part in teaching people what's going on. I'm making comments that we're using the word "communications" about what's going on here, that's not a saying. The reason we come up repeatedly is because we disagree, that we cannot get answers. We don't know what happens next week. If there were any answers now, we wouldn't be coming up here. We're in a hurry about the President's conference board because we don't agree with the President's conference board, and that's our right. That's not a saying. Then there is a characteristic of the end of Congress that is so much of what we are discussing, such as a road program that is extremely important. It is not surprising that 17 members of Parliament want to talk about transportation. It's gonna take a long time. There are about 20, 30 cases here now that are such that there are even 15, 20 senators who want to talk about them all. Now people can count. We just have so much time. We'll never allow 15 to520 members of the United States to talk in all these matters, there's no one talking about a filamentist. [[The president calls.]] There's a deal to be negotiated. The senators need to give up the right to speak in these matters, and this need to be discussed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] No one's talking about filibusters or anything like that, but this conversation isn't going to take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u64	The president believes that it is normal for members of Congress to speak to other members of Congress, but he still leaves this unconcerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u65	A respectable president. According to the Work Programme, there are four, five hours left of this longest assembly of Iceland's history. What's going on? There are three members of the administration board here, probably to show some color, but there is no attempt to approach us in making decisions as to how we will complete this council. The disrespect is complete and perfect. We're sitting here trying to get things together, we're discussing the transport program that we're going to support, we're going to support each of the government's changes. We are trying to work as hard as we can so that we can get ahead of ourselves into elections, and we are here with silence and disrespect. A respectable president. This calls to my opinion that there will be a recession at this meeting and review of how the last four hours of work programme should be used. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u66	A respectable president. Before further discussion of my four - year transport program, I think that it would be right to set up the requirements presented here and ask for a dignified president to have something to tell us at the end of my talk about when the president intends to meet with members of the council, it would certainly be to pay for Congress. We will discuss a four - year transport program for 2015◯2018. Then someone might ask, " Wait, is it 2015? ' What does that mean when you're making a plan for a year that's over? This is because four years of transportation is a law of law, and the current government has not ceased this program until it is too late. Therefore, we are in the strange position to discuss the proposed proposal for a four - year transport program for the year before the past year, and for the current year, and it is September, so for 2017 and 2018. Sadly, this is not an isolated example of how the government does its work, but it certainly is reason to discuss specifically, not just because the plan is late, but because it is so unbelievably ambitious. We know, and unfortunately, the news is almost weekly that we face the fact that our transport system in Iceland is very badly neglected. This is where the neglect of sin is rising because the transport systems in the country are not being maintained and new ones are also being kept to a historic minimum. Transport contributions as a proportion of GDP are embarrassingly low. In the smaller parts, we were severely critical of these limited transport contributions during the term all and the serious problems that have taken place in the process of transport. We're talking about this crippling and neglected road system in Iceland getting involved in the tragic accidents of tourists after each other. It is unacceptable that Iceland is going to beat its breasts as a growing tourist country to invite people to her large ways and so neglect society's infrastructure and road systems that we as a community are responsible for serious accidents and even fatal accidents. That's embarrassing. It is shameful for a rich society that teaches itself well to make such a thing happen. We can see that these transport contributions were most effective in 2008 when more than 2.5% of GDP, but since then this ratio has remained in the historical minimum in the last few years around 1,1.1.3%, so clearly, if we consider everything else that is going on in the Icelandic economy and the motive for giving in there, it's clearly seen that it's just been in the transport system, it's just been starving, it's been starving, it's been generally starving. If we were to stop a number of tourists in the last few years, then in 2010, there were 488 thousand tourists here. In 2014, four years later, they were 997 thousand. They had doubled in four years. What is the number of people in the current year? We are likely to be here on record because in the first eight months of the year, we have 1.2 million tourists, in the first eight months of the year, and we are not even in September of that number. This lack of transportation is very serious. For this reason, we would like to contribute in the memory of the section to increase the money with the adjustment proposal for maintenance of the road system. What advice do we have in this regard when we want to assess the amount of funds needed to maintain minimal maintenance in the road system? We talked to the Roadmaker. The road has to be maintained every year for maintenance only to keep it gone, just to keep it gone, not to improve anything, but 11 billion are needed to improve the situation and to improve its security along with the necessary maintenance. According to the proposal from a minister, this figure is 7 billion for 2017 and 2018, and if this proposal is adopted, as it is clear, the road system will get worse, while the change of the body will allow a billion dollars each year for each year, so we are talking about 8 billion on 2017 and 8 billion on 2018. We suggest another half a billion people, since we cannot allow ourselves as a civilized nation to watch the road system drop like this. I expect, most part of this body to be supported by a respected president. Let's face the situation. If we're going to take care of the transport program, we're going to have to give more to maintenance. Of course, standing here and talking about some money is really weird when the council is almost over. And who will pay them money and who will make that decision in financial matters, etc.?? It is important, in my opinion, that we as members of a community, whether we are independent, left green, piranha, or Bear Future, partners or candidates, we must agree that we want to show greater respect for this class. Why don't we agree to put enough money together for 2017 and 2018? Shouldn't we? Is there not good reason, good material reasoning? And, indeed, a table is served in the government business to make significant improvements in the construction of infrastructure. We're supposed to do this. A respectable president. The subject has been discussed here with what? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir considered my share of the environment and transport committee I sign along with others. In view of this and the general debate, I would especially like to stop at the position in the capital area, the transportation in the capital area. It must be done tirelessly to strengthen the opportunities for public transportation. Public transport needs more in the capital area. The rural areas in the capital area have set up plans to develop a city line, a new relief network or a speeding system that serves the entire capital area. It would be a system that would serve the future generations, young people today primarily, for it takes a long time to do so, and it would make the capital area competitive to the capitals of the Northern countries. Young people look to you for ways to get around. Young people want public transportation where the cars come in tight and cheap. It's transparent. It's a good system with frequent trips. Such a system must be built and strengthened in Iceland because it is a large part of the daily lives of young people, i.e. Strong bus, light trains, and fast-caring systems. This is what rural society wants in the capital area, not only Reykjavíkurburg, but also Kópavogur, Garden Town, Hafnarfjörður, Mosfellstown, Seltjanarnes, etc. That's what we're supposed to do, too. We're here to support this, i.e. The power of the Kingdom, by directly establishing that structure. Strong public transportation would also make it easier to build on the capital area. Then we'd also be working on what may be one of our biggest issues, not just this year, but for the next ten years, 50 years, 100 years, and the young people are going to have to worry more about what we do, it's the climate. It is the fact that we who build so - called prosperous or industrialized Western lands are responsible for releasing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. We have the most responsibility. Therefore, we also have the highest responsibility to reduce that emissions. How do we do that? How does Iceland do that? What opportunities does Iceland have in reducing greenhouse gas emissions? True, we use hydropower and geothermals more and less to produce electricity, but we also use fossil fuels, gasoline, and oil to run virtually all the transport system. That's why we have to stop. We have to contribute to the international community in it, not only to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also to be there to make more money than we are released, i.e. That we really give back the non-carbons of Iceland. Our goal is to set ourselves. Parts of achieving such goals are simply reducing transport use of fossil fuels. This we do by contaminating the capital area primarily by major public transportation. We have often talked about the importance of supporting transportation. Near the capital area, we face the fact that almost all the transport organization is built around a private car. The number of parking lots, phone grounds, even misdirected corners, are set up in a way that is virtually hopeless, really impossible to walk. If you're drawn to a bus ride, you risk your life if you cross a major road mechanic or a large parking lot to get your way. This is a child of his time. It is a traffic system that does not serve young people and not future generations or those who want to live a mature city life. We have to turn this thing around. See, cars are not just areas that serve to keep the car somewhere; parking places are a source of traffic. In some ambitious European cities, cars are banned in the middle of the city, and in the middle of the city, you have to park your car in the center of the city because the only car doesn't belong in such areas. This is one of the things we need to look forward to if we are going to have a capital that is competitive to other cities around us, primarily to young people. Young people, mostly, are the judges of whether we succeed. It is a challenge for us here at the Council not only to talk to one another, not just to talk to those who are experienced and mature and know how to do things, but to talk and listen to those who come after us. Because the voices of young people are future voices and are very important in this category, especially when we look to climate targets and greenhouse gas emissions. I would also like to agree only with the importance of meeting the long - term policy of transport with all possible partners, talking to rural society, working life, talking to those who really need to rely on the transportation system, that the transportation system is not something that will develop in a narrow context, but will arise in broad consultation. Of course, the priorities of projects would have to be this way on transport, such as in a lot more matters, that we here at the International Parliament in cooperation with transport, and our rural areas have standards for what matters most, and then we are looking at security, climate issues, policy-making, job structure, etc. Then, when it comes to setting priorities, the local people should have a much stronger voice. We have this route through national parish programmes. That is exactly where these meetings were held, where people of good faith, rural society, representatives of the industry, representatives of the school system, etc., sat down at the table, and said: "Yes, now it is so that the result of the economic collapse in Iceland is going to change how we work. We're going to change how things work, and instead of watching some minister tell us what they're up to, no, we're just going to say what they're up to. It was a project that was exemplary. The Protocols of the part of the country were transversely implemented. It didn't matter which group of people came. All were open - eyed and filled with confidence in their work on national conventions. All of us believed that this was the way to set our priorities abroad. We started that. Ministers went across the country, local government met, professional meeting, community institutions, etc. and everywhere they made lists of the most important things to do. Everywhere they made lists. Then, when the present government came into power, this work was put aside because it was under the tears of Jóhanna and Steingrímur's terrible government. If so, let us not look at this method. Rather, let us use someone else who has actually not yet appeared because it was a good method. It has been used since, not with sufficient force, not with sufficient confidence. Modern government groups do not have the size within themselves to raise this project as a real and meaningful democratic project into the long future. But that is how we should do it. This is the tool to look to far more closely on the structure and development of the transport system. It should not be our job here at the General Assembly to interfere with the terms of funding in the political road in individual territories, thus not thinking. As members of the capital area, we are members of a council of the United States. We in the capital area are people who want to lower one-border bridges in the South and double Smokejanes Way. We're members of the Parliament who want to build regional and trajectories in the East. We're members of Congress who want the Forest Coast because we're members of the community. Thus, each senator should view his own role and work when it comes to building wood for the community in general, for the settlements, for the career, for the tourism, and for the future. So, I would like to say, sir, that I think it is very important that all of us make sure that when we discuss transportation matters, we can discuss them from this broad point of view. This was earlier explained by the changes we make in the smaller parts of the transport committee. The more money you can get, the more you need, the more you remind me, the 11.5 billion when all is counted for 2017 and 2018 as a change in terms of improvement in the state of Congress. Minister's offering. In our smaller parts, we contribute primarily to the maintenance I mentioned earlier, 1,500 million for 2017, and 1,500 for 2018. I think we must be able to agree on that. I'd also like to mention the grants of public transportation that are well-founded in the Commission's opinion. The importance of public transportation across the country may not have to be largely large. We add to the section on the west side; a road around Forest Beach; a bridge; and a resounding in the Darla; a Microshaft Road on Hvalfjords. We'll add a hunting necklace. In the heading east, we talk about starting Axes Road on the front of the straight following procedure at the Berfjörður Berfjörður. We add a link in the chapter Joint and Total 200 million for 2017 and 200 million for 2018. As the bridges improve, we add 500 million totals in 2017 and 500 million in 2018. It may be a unique project, if you can refer to a reduction in single bridges as a single project, which increases in the most clear way of traffic security in Iceland, especially for those who are not used to Icelandic roads, i.e. reduction of one-burner bridge. I don't have a rhythmic number of bridges that are single in Southeast, an enormously growing tourist area. Since the number of tourists is increasing from year to year, there are more and more people who travel outside this traditional core in time and bed, as it were, longer in place, even travel during winter, spring, and autumn, and travel differently from traditional times. This is one of the factors that must be taken into account by traffic safety measures. A respectable president. I wish to be put back on the rosary in order to improve in specific matters that affect individual parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I'd like to curious about one thing because it's so amazing that it's starting to go along with a transport plan. The majority of the committees traced it, it has been submitted today, to 141, but not to 143. They did not receive their payment and returned to 144th but did not receive the final payment. I've never really understood what this is all about. In case of a moment. A senator can explain to me only why a travel program has not been completed, as if it were made up of budgets and all kinds of important matters that take place here at the council and are finished. There's one thing. Then there's something. A senator was talking about our responsibility in dealing with foreign tourists, whom I so wholeheartedly agree with. I think it's a responsibility to stand in the market and open the country to tourists, then we must be ready to receive them too. I realize this is a big and serious challenge because our road system is very large. I haven't even started talking about the one-by-one bridges and the dangerous roads and the sorceres in the roads that I think are very dangerous because when a man goes off into the mackerelman, we even have experienced drivers in Iceland having trouble with that. But then there are things like markings that I don't think are so expensive at all to correct. I was in Slovenia this summer. There were some really good markings. Even at one point, access was banned - yes, the European Union - but if you hadn't accidentally seen this huge signal, red with a white bar, something was just inside. [[For example, the European Union.]] [[The president calls.]] I think sometimes it's because we know it here, but this has to be just like children so it's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u68	President. I wholeheartedly agree with the senator on this. Not long ago, I tried to drive myself around the capital area with the thought that I wasn't a local stranger, that I didn't know a single area, let's just say inside Hafnarfjörður or Kópavogs, etc. It may never stand Hafnarfjörður on a sign or a Kópavogur; it may simply be referred to a neighborhood and so on. I think there's a weakness in our meaning, not just in the capital area, but in all the country, that we are marked by a particular standard knowledge. That's what we can say to a child of our time. Actually, it is only natural for us to be in this situation. I'd also like to mention that, of course, we know many of the tourists abroad when you're using your wife or your friend in the measuring table, who tells you where to turn and where to get out of the ringorg to get out of our way, people can get into unfortunate and unpredictable adventures, such as the man who ended at Saturday's Sports when he was going to go down Leye Road in Reykjavík. All of this is important, and information and education for tourists feel that there is something that we need to do better in view of the fact that this road system is not a coward. One is driving a shark that we all have to wrestle with at some point, but driving on a narrow dirt road or on a road that's so narrow that it's kind of a malar road when you're out of one width, that's something you do nothing on the first day. Hv. One senator wondered why the case had not been completed before. That's at least clear that the government's opposition has not been in the process of completing a transport program before. It has simply not been enough political will or pressure from the administrative sector to do so until now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u69	A respectable president. Yeah, the whole thing with the markings, though I know Reykjavík well, I've had extraordinary times in driving a bunch of jars because I know I'm going up to A yeartown, and then these are East and West labellings, and it can be complicated. I think this is something that doesn't necessarily cost much and can be done very much. Of course, we've talked about meanings to single bridges that tourists may not even know, and there I think we can do much for not necessarily so much money. I know that the roadmaking is aware of that. There are adjustments made to a transport program that I see to it that all committees agree. That's good. It is also wondering in the majority opinion that I find interesting information about flying and the role of Istavia, even though there is not a direct basis for anything to be suggested, that Istavia handles the international airport operations. I read it in the papers today too. It has been criticized that people are building a very large amount of money at the Cheflavor airport, which no doubt is necessary. Was this something that the lesser part had opinions on? Then I mean both the national and the international airports and I think they're probably just Akureyri and Egress, outside of Keflavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u70	President. As I understand it, these airports are already at the custody of Isvia and, in fact, all airports in the country. What's been going on is cutting between them, and Istavia really only notices those who serve international flies by some means, but the rest are actually moving under the road model in maintenance and operation. It's as if I've understood the matter at least. with all the notices that I have nothing to do with this particular case on my desk. There have also been some speculations about privatization, etc., but it's not part of the committee opinion, but I don't think that much of it is there. However, we discussed the situation with Istavia, at a meeting of the Committee, not just in the transport program, but in general. This is one example of decisions taken into the community in the past, and some kind of phenomenon was designed to submit to some of its laws. I'd like to include also Landsnet, I think it's a good example of this, since everything is actually on the grounds of the public government, but without the prosecuting of the public. We've been discussing with the Committee that there may be a need to examine the legal environment, the agreements, etc. So like Landsnets and other such phenomena, the operation of Istavia reflects a democratic will better than it always happens for some time. I want to agree with what. A senator may not need so much money on these issues that she mentions on the subject of meaning, etc. However, there has been a financial problem at the House of Transport to make possible that there is not enough money for education and traffic security. That's where we need to do better. We need to do more in cooperation with our tourism because we need to reach a conversation about traffic security with the traveling services and our good guests. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u71	Madam President. This large and important transport agenda at any given time is a good pay in itself, as it looks after the changes made in the majority and even more if the smaller part has been about to be added. But there is shame that this should not have been achieved until now. I say it again, mind you. The Minister of the Interior State said that her sad plan was what she trusted to do, that it smells like an election coming. Although we all agree on that, and we've been these three years, that money needs to be put on, it seems like everything is slow during these last days. V.E.G. In view of the way he acts publicly in all the media, almost a left man is now doing everything for everyone. For this plan, I'm going to start by going over something that concerns our district, going through some of the factors at least. Hv. A senator and head of the greater part agreed with the joy of a national financial program, which is the policy of every government that I found to be very important in view of the fact that he has fought for more money in a transport program, while the transport program and financial programs had a difference of more than 3 billion. At that time, I felt very clever that he would not sit by and comment on it in this way. You can't agree to something and be very happy with it at the same time as you have another plan going that doesn't work with it. The addition of 11.5 billion to this one. In this schedule and for the next two years, it also means that the budget is by no means a valid document. It is actually being thrown out into the ocean if the government is here starting by breaking everything that it says. If we let it remain, I don't think we'll have much more money in this program. I'm gonna start by talking about flying. The flight has been considerablely under way and air travel. It was in the papers yesterday, and it's in the papers again today. I've made it clear that there were people here, both from government and government opposition, who worked on behalf of the Ministry a report on how methods and procedures could be taken to meet an expensive national flight. It is shocking if that work has been left down for over a year and nothing done with it until now. According to national newsletters and Internal Affairs, a team of workers has now been established who are to offer proposals for reforms to improve air transport within the country. According to the opinion of the greater part, some 300 million are being contributed to the improvement. But it's done first now, the other layer is down for about The year and time of starting a working group. This does not indicate that people's time and money are being handled well. We also need to be careful that people who use the ministry cannot wait indefinitely. The structure has called a lot of calls for this to be revised. At every meeting of the national body, I presume, transportation is referred to, i.e. Roads, flights, fiber optics. This is the main focus of every local representative involved with members of Congress. I'm on a budget committee, and for three years this has been exactly the same thing. I think it's kind of sad and kind of lame that it's time to start a team again and look at this future. Of course, we should have already done so. About the ideas that come out there, i.e. Whether the operation, the domestic flight, should be private and put the small airports under the road, but the international airports, i.e. Reykjavík, Akureyri, Egeils, stay under Istavia - I must say it, a respectable president, I don't like it. I can't see it. This is a suggestion that the making of the road remain abjectious. If the international airports are on top of the challenge for money, I think they're being screwed. I have serious doubts about how wise this is. Yesterday, a process of transportation was developed, and I would like to go into what appears there. I can agree on a lot of things, as soon as I'm very unhappy that the minister has not fought enough for this group until now, although I still enjoy what is available, but, of course, it's not enough. As for urban development, it is said that the quality of living consists of six key elements of health and security, education, employment, access to services, culture, and recreation, in which good transport is really essential for all of this. It is talking about a transport plan to support this and this target should also be carried out and measures that cannot be considered economically acceptable, but it will be considered necessary to create the country's equal position regardless of farm location. I can totally agree. Investigating the challenge of human development in that large area, the tunnel was named before. Of course, in connection with other services, it is of great importance. As here was very well traced, by reason of reason. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller, it's not about government funds in a bad way, but as a loan, not directly from his pocket. You see, we're talking about a vast service area. If we think about Akureyri, it's from Skagve left to Shiverpool. It overlaps with a service area in the Plains of Sheep and Húsavík, and in the Middle East, it is Rotegaven, Eyjafjörður, and the Thiing Islands. This is where the domestic flight plays a very important role. For example, it is Akureyri, Húsavík, and Reykjavík. There are some 30,000 people living in this area. That's why it's very important. In the Middle East, there are about 10,000 people from the armed forces in the north to the southern Deepvogur, some 200 miles [200 km] away. It's just in the Valley of the River and the Far East and the Valley of Breið are about 9,000 people, i.e. That's the biggest core of all. Therefore, we see in our hand exactly what it means to have it at a reasonable rate, as it has been said about the Nes shops and other places. 90% of the population in Middle Eastern lands live less than 60 miles [60 km] from the airport at Egls. We would be evening people's positions with an enormously important factor, not just for their tourism but first and last because of the people living there. In this regard, it is also worth recognizable, since Istavia has been often set up as the evil party in this case, that the international airport system is all run according to the government service contract of Istavia and that is the State Department of Internal Affairs who determines the service level and carried out at the airports. It's the Ministry of Internal Affairs that makes this service deal, and there are two thirds that come out of the box, and then there's the user fees and the pay we're paying around one-third. But it is important to think that Istavia is not the only one to blame, even though we can have opinions about how that company is run. It is also possible to review and modify the service contract there. There's nothing unchangeable in this world. The international flight can hardly be counted as part of a national public transport system, as long as it is possible except for those who own money or business and public institutions to use it. This has not been acceptable for a very long time. Because there are times when people here are talking about saying no to health care because of poverty, we're also talking about people who live very far away, they don't have access to all the health services offered here in the capital area, which is why this is also a huge part to respond to. I feel that this has been a bit of a waste of time when it comes to transportation. Naturally, once there's been a lot of money in the long run, it's all important. But now the demand has become different, as soon as we want to take the international flight and the passengers who are coming to the country in other directions, this is one of the most important factors. So when we go through the position of the committee, so I take it a little bit, it beats you when one of the first things you read is that more of the committee admits that it's a fiasco plan. The low proportion of GDP has been placed in the transport system and infrastructure of the country during the past year, especially by the government that accepted good living and has been able to set aside money in a completely different way than it has. And it costs to keep it waiting. It's taken a lot of time to make this wait. When it has been said that paying off debt is a priority, there are times when two things have to be done. You can't just turn down the debt and let everything else go away. It just means that we're stuck with more, bigger, more complex tasks than others would have been. When it comes to saying that a transport system cannot be maintained properly by these contributions, you ask yourself: " Is this ambition, or is this a total lack of ambition? In fact, we've been saying here that this is by no means enough. It's not even enough to hold back. Then there's a limit to the income. There is reason to discuss the limited income. They are to be removed by means of the new budget. We've been criticizing this negative personal money, which has been called, i.e. Money that has been put in the middle of the road for many years and was never intended to result. It is absolutely unacceptable that once the new law has gone into effect, it is not yet settled in the way it should be handled. If your income gets taken away, it's just already there, and it really means that the government's budget just has to cut it off. There's really nothing else. It was not instituted with the thought that this would be done in this way. Of course, no income stock is left, as stated in an antiquated note this morning, to pay off this debt. It is good in itself that the majority feel that it should be unwinded and removed, but it does not. That's what worries you. Nothing's happened in this. That's what they've been talking about now for at least The three years, so, of course, nothing happens. The time runs away from you like it when things are so big and so big. I am here to give a second talk, especially when it comes to my district. But let me just mention that there are, of course, certain projects that you are happy about, including, are proposed. to complete the Kappus route and to travel to the Bay of Brufjörður and that is to continue; it is being done in many parts of the economy that have been expected to complete, even if only for safety. Because I mentioned theifth floor, we see pictures on a regular basis, where there's a hole by a hole and totally unacceptable, and people literally destroy their cars by driving there. It's kind of special that it's like that. I must also say that, because we've talked quite a bit from the Öxi road, I would have wanted it to be stated in the Committee of the Greater Part what they were attracted to Öxi. It's being pushed back all the time. In fact, I see it is stated in a longer term schedule that it is expected. There's been a huge round over Axi this summer. At the end of September, now this week, more cars are going to cross Hofkas Pass, Sandvík, and a combined military force. This is simply a practical procedure beyond the fact that there will be no more shortening of the ring route than that way, and this also guarantees security. As it was tore in the opposite direction, there are too many roads in a circleway 1, except for all these monotonous bridges that are off the road. Here also is the name, and I'm worried about it, the Northeast Road south of Brekkith. One reason is that money is always being cared for. It is said to try to do what is cheapest. All right. However, the key safety issues such as blind hills and safety areas should be observed at the side of the target as shown in the original schedule. I think we should be very careful about making things cheap. For a time when we were going to do much, not with a vision of the future, our simple bridges are less effective. I think this is one of the things we have to think seriously about when we get into action. No one wants to wait, but it may be wise to wait a year or so in order to complete the road. Then I'm not specifically talking about this specific project, just all the projects that are normally under here. Mr. President. I'm going to do better in some particular projects planned for the following, i.e. In our district, the Northeast especially, and discuss it. There is no time for that in the few minutes below, but thankfully, there are many good things to find in this additional. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this document was less than hando-new, it was almost unsurpassed to propose it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. An interesting picture of transport donations as a proportion of GDP is included in the context of the memory of the part. It shows that in 2008 the proportion is enormously high, is expected to be due to man's implementation at the time of the crash, and the rate of domestic production declines substantially in that year. However, it is interesting to see how much effort is made in 2009, in fact, in 2010. Of course, I'm not quite sure, but I imagine that in 2008 this is part of it because of that, although the land production is falling very much by the end of the year, that man has already started in January and continued throughout the year, although men have surely reduced it by the end of the year. I find it interesting to see what our share has been in 2008, 2009, and 2010. We are now entitled to a couple, perhaps in 2011, despite the fact that the state's funds are quite successful. The committee's opinion also shows a table of tourists. What has happened is that in ten years, visitors increase from more than 440,000 to less than 1.2 million. No doubt these tourists use very much of the country's highways. Everyone has to get out of Cheflavík to Reykjavík, and then there's all over the place and maybe we'd like to get more of them to the country. I feel totally unacceptable how low the percentages of traffic are compared to what we have been driving and how much we're also in need of maintenance as well as brordy bridges and all of that. What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with her, and it's really a shame when you look at the future as a proportion of GDP. After a collapse of almost bankrupt state funds, however, the correct and reasonable response was made, i.e. it was carried out. If we meditate on it, then in the three years that this government has taken, there is really no new development. What's being done, big projects like Norwegian tunnels and more, actually, all of it goes down to the last term. So bad is the government of good living, but as I said in my speech, the insides are made to bleed. Of course, you find it very unusual that there is no greater ambition in fighting for extra money on the part of the minister for the secretary of finance for this tribe. Like what? A senator entered when the number of tourists is huge. We have heard from the Roads that security has become lacking despite trying to keep it at an acceptable time, but we see accidents that have occurred and that are not so. Because our road system is just not okay. Then I agree with it, and I want to emphasize that we want to distribute tourists, whether on the road or on the flight because I made it a significant subject of my speech. This is part of the fact that it has not been followed, i.e. This increase has not been followed in any way in the infrastructure or distribution of tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u74	A respectable president. If we later turn our backs on the good thing we belong to, and I know why. A senator may not be more generous later, for it is no longer possible to drive through the Vádlehafa, it has become such a disaster. But that may not be the big money. What we know has been about and what we know are the projects at the Berufjörður and then the road across the Ox. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator knows this better than I do. I thought they were going to the Berfjörður bottom, that's where they're headed. But as for Axi, I feel it's a significant project because it's a road, although it may not be able to use it entirely over the winter, which will shorten the tremendous way from the South Coast to the Shire and is a road I know men are fighting for there on the South Coast. But it's just as important to the bitter end of the world. I'm quoting my section's committee opinion. I find it interesting, too, that there should be some surveys for Eelfjörður and a study of the complete separation between Reykjavík and Akureyri. This sounds like music to me because it's just the way it is for everyone who lives in the country who has to go south for that way. If I'm ever afraid of my children, it's when they're in a car between Akureyri and Reykjavík because, unfortunately, the most serious accidents often happen on the highways and in other places, they're just not good enough at all. A double road policy is probably the safest option. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this would be enormously expensive, but one would like to see a double road going on in some chapters, just as at one time the road between us was not malabundated. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing so far since it was like that. What does it say? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u75	Mr. President. It's this thing about our flight charge, because we were driving past that wrinkle a few months ago, and it's getting huge out there in front of the Valale-Hall tunnel. It's kind of amazing, and I say it again, I think it's a tiny sign that elections are up ahead, that's an election smell because you can put some money in it now. Yet, I do know that the chairman of the Committee has been very fighting for this flight. This is not large sums, but it is of course important for domestic flights. In terms of theiftieth bottom, this procedure, according to the long-term design submitted, should not be completed until the next period of the schedule, around 2019. There was a dispute between landowners that caused the work to be delayed. It has now been solved by the local community, so it's all set. It's just literally been waiting for money for this project. Of course, the end of transport has been stressed. I agree with what. A senator that this is one of the most important things, not only that the roads are so wonderfully ruined, as it has been, but to ensure the safety and safety of the local population, it also matters, not just the tourists. Of course, preparation for the tunnel, both the South Ground tunnel as it is for us and the Animal Strait tunnel, is a vital factor. This is the next major project, these two construction projects in my opinion. For safety between capital area and other ideals, i.e. on the highway and double your driving policies, it's very important, especially between Akureyri and Reykjavík, and also about how well public transportation is decent, I think it matters too, and especially to keep up with security. [[The president calls.]] I think this would be a very wise decision if she could make it through here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u76	Mr. President. The position of the government of Independence classes and the forwarding of these transports during the election period is quite significant that they probably do not have any parallels, taking into account circumstances and changing populations, except for the restoration regime. I have come to remember that it was spoken rather badly in the country, that it would have spent enough time building up roads, and that it would probably take a little time in those years until the left government took over 1971 and put a lot of energy in the construction of roads. This is simply a disastrous performance for the board of directors during the past three years. It's three lost years. It's very sad to see the front of this time at least were ideal situations to spit into the palms of the hands through construction of infrastructure and investments, to support recovery in the economy, and to reduce projects if you began to worry about overheating the economy. In 2013, 2014, 2015, a very good offer was made, often under a budget, but now it's changing, understandable, more practical. During these lost years, the current ruling parties bear all responsibility. No matter how you look, we'll be here late in September on the last day of the Senate's last day after a work programme was extended trying to overcome the first transport program of this government. She's in the death stretch, in the last yards, and then maybe it'll go through. There is the first major act of neglect. It simply hasn't worked by law. She has not been able to establish a transport strategy here and ensure that, with more of her part at the council, they will be provided. Why is that? This is because the methods of transportation that were displayed last year and met were so tragic that governments themselves had no interest in passing them out. They simply did not trust in it when it came to doing so. Of course, it is typical that not one member of the board in the hall is seen here. Nobody. Where are the leaders from the greater part of the case? Where's the bottom line? Minister when this grand moment has arrived in the fourth year that we are here in a second discussion about the first transport program of this government? No, it's seen under their feet in every direction. I think I saw the web at the highest. A minister is opening a pier tube, cutting for dinner, and opening a pier in the country rather than being in the Senate to answer for his party. There has been no increase in funding during the three years and, in 2014, in spite of a greatly improved national economy, in spite of a very large increase in traffic and the screaming needs that all agree on. No matter where you take it, the road itself says it's an emergency, the transport organization, the rural communities, the people living on this road system. It doesn't matter where you've been, everyone agrees on one thing, the road system in Iceland is going down. That is why there are three wasted years of animals. The most precarious failure in my opinion of this government, the incomprehensible thing I am about, is that they have not even given public income to road income in terms of price. I tried to criticize it not only last year but also a few months before I met him in charge of the budget. One year they were not raised at all, the second year about half of the estimated inflation or inflation. This has resulted in a lack of these marketd incomes of 7◯8 billion. This is the more attractive it would have been, of course, to pay extra cash if the income, the special fuel fee, the oil tax, the weight tax, and that would have been paid in price. I'm sure it's up to about tens of billions of dollars in the history of this government. That would have allowed every cent to be used for maintenance and new construction. It's also a lost time, a lost income. It is not as if this was difficult because the inflation was difficult to deal with or the fuel price was very high, so people howl to raise these markets. No, inflation has been well below the limit of normal for more than two years, and global fuel and oil prices dropped by one of 303/40%, if not more. The sale price at home has dropped by a hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars per liter. No one would have noticed, even though a few crowns had taken them into steps in the gasoline charge and oil charge to keep those revenues in place. To be honest, this is an amazing performance. In turn, there is an enormous increase in the number of tourists in the country who are increasingly traveling on rental cars. It is enough to mention the tragic accidents, serious accidents, and even deaths in foreign tourists that have become a significant part of all road accidents in the country. That's even. because in the condition of the road system, that is because there are not enough meanings and many more things, which I have actually asked for the highest level. A minister, whether or not there is anything he will try to do about it, but no answer is given. Then, as always, the traffic is increasing for us when there has been some years of good economic growth, and the interests of people improve. Then it'll travel more. The traffic's growing. There is an increasing level of employment activity, growth in transport as a result of increased sectoral activity, etc. Of course, we should tax this traffic so that she would contribute to building the road system, or who else should pay for it? In the context of my share of the environment and transport committees, it is well defined by the proportion of GDP that this will take place over the years. It's striking that this ratio is dropping in this government during the first part of the term. It goes down to the bottom, below 1% of gross domestic product in 2014, when the great miracle workers were in power. That's just ridiculous. By 2015, last year, this is hardly close to the proportion of 2012, 2013. It's less than 2011. That's what I'm talking about. It's not much better this year, as we know. True, they now plan to say that this is just going up next year. It's the campaign pin, but it's late. And actually, it's pretty dreary. I have to say just as it is that I had not criticized it, unless less so, and we in the smaller part, though they had struck themselves with much more handsome adjustments in the process of raising. Everyone agrees that it needs to be done. The spring pass program was such an enunciation that there was nothing to do with it but to throw it away. The senators now acknowledge the greater part of it. Of course, they are acknowledging the shame by making adjustments, scratching in the tray. Have likely not been excited about going campaigning into their own districts, if they show up there, with a road program on their back. But now only scratched into the tray and put a billion in maintenance each year, something only on the road, and then so anointed as a $100,200 million here, and then into projects that cost 1 and 2 and 3 billion, to say to men in the Bárda Valley or to citizens spending spend an island or somewhere else: There is only one thing set for you. But it's 1/10, 1/20, 1/30 of what would cost to complete the relevant procedure. After that, it's very slow. I saw in the news the other day that the road model has charted the cost of 400 billion getting the road system in Iceland to the level we wanted to have, to a good degree, according to the standards we're living on today and trying to build a new road. If we were to replace the road system and replace it, it would cost about 400 billion. The total budget for building costs and tunneling throughout the long term programme that this government presents is some 150 billion. You're right about 1/3 of that. Of course, no one is necessarily required to meet all of these in a single period of long - term schedules, but this shows us how far we are from achieving the goals we must set in these areas, that Iceland will eventually have an adequate modern road system that meets all standards, security rules, carrier tolerance requirements, and similar factors. It takes more, much more, and, of course, traffic to pay for it. That's the order of what we've been through, that traffic is taxed. I don't talk about it while it still uses fossil fuels with related greenhouse gas emissions, of course, taxing it. There are also three wasted years behind this government in that it has done nothing to continue reevaluate the tax environment of traffic, nothing, and yet it does not need to be asked. We made great changes in these subjects during our last terms, fortunately. We made the tax system pretty much green, we kept tax freedom for environmental energy sources, electric cars, methadone cars, etc. and we changed all the anti-emerging properties of traffic so that it is carbon dioxide emissions that form the basis for taxation, whether you buy a new car or pay for it tolls or to pay the car costs, the less the car releases from greenhouse gases, the less taxation will be reduced. In this way we made our way of making the tax environment green and fostering transport exchange of energy. What has this government done? Nothing. Yeah, I forget one thing, she dropped the carbon bill a little. That was the contribution of this government to climate. Then she went to Paris and signed a contract. This is very encouraging because there is an absolutely urgent need to shape a future policy on how we want environmental energy sources in transport, encourage energy exchange, but at the same time we know that in due time this traffic also has to pay something and contribute to road transport. In order for humans to be confident that it will be practical to be on an electric vehicle or a metal car or, therefore, because of hydrogen or what it would be, there will be a future taxation policy. At the time, while I was there, we were working at the Ministry of finance, but since then nothing has happened. It's gone out like so many other things in this blessed government, and especially when it comes to everything that has to go on the road. Now it is that when humans examine climate and what they can do, e.g. In neighboring countries, I was at a good conference in Stockholm on Tuesday on that matter and had more allowed it to come to an end, especially looking at the transportation. Why is that? Because they are quite large emissions and are still based on fossil fuels. While agriculture is certainly a fairly large source of emissions in these countries, much of it is more limited to cut emissions. Land transport, especially in the air and sea, is now at high level to achieve significant levels from there in the aims of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's why it's serious. It's supposed to be part of our plan for the Icelanders to succeed. And that's why we, so lucky with our energy production, have a lot more transport. Although there are international flights and international cruises in Paris, we have a large domestic fishing fleet, and unfortunately we are moving ashore. These are not railroads, and we were now so lucky, or the other, to shut down the coasts of 1992/1993, to the marvelous damage to the road system and the climate as well. That would never have been done. I suppose it would be nice to consider as a team what we were going to save, and what results we were going to achieve in terms of emissions and the maintenance of the road system if we were to strengthen the coasts by several hundred million a year and have a proper service around the country, two locations each week for each base? That was the case once. The heavy transports began to take place through the sea, and the road system was so soon damaged that it carried them to the lowest part of the year. But we were so fortunately fortunate in the miscredulous politicians to shut down coastal cruises on this island, which have a chain around the shore, totally attributed to using the water as much as possible and shielding the road system for heavy transport, responsible for the longest stretch of roads, and also partly to the security issues. That's what happened, Mr. President. I have to say, as it is, I've only been in the long-term program, even though I realize that it's not on schedule today and will not be discussed at this council, perhaps because it needs to be reviewed from scratch once again some men come to power in this country. Then I hope that this will all work out too slowly if it should be our future for the next 12 years. There we can see just how small the points we aim at the big task that we push all the way ahead of us and do nothing about it. In fact, getting all the habitats of the country and the main road to a comfortable state is not going to work. Of course, we cannot invite citizens to the city's side forever if we have to drive a dangerous, dangerous road to get into the national road and to the road system. Fortunately, one of the last urban areas in the country is that of living with that condition, but this is not possible. They're supposed to take a job like that and put it in high priority. The same could be said of the Langanes Beach and the Brekki. It is absurd, of course, that after a tens of millions of investments in building up all the northeast way, 85 way, from aquarium in the South Þjóning Island, through Húsavík, Tjörnes, Köldur, the Axleur, the Granddaddy, the Langanes Beach, and the highway 1 of the Má Langadals, we'll leave two pieces of malaria behind us so that the whole way would not be possible. [[It's a memory protection.]] It is even attached to heavy limits because of these two pieces of malaria. It's a smart order for things to happen. Of course, men finish this kind of work, just as the present government was made aware by powerful protests that they are offered only to finish off after more billions are put in it. But it was supposed to stop on schedule. Change of plans? Yeah, fine, it's coming back in. Better now, I'll just say. I can come around a lot more. I think I know the country's road system quite well after some international visits in the last few decades. A year - long jump on the beach, something like this should only show color at the end of these plans. A new road over Oxi, which is quite practical and a great shortcut for traffic that leads east along the coast and up on the Shire or onto the ring road. Of course, a direct process of finishing the Valley of the Cradle is to be started. Then we might start to wonder about the big picture. How do we want our nation's route west and north from Reykjavík to Akureyri to look in 10How 15 years? Is it not the modern - day way of apart driving? Should we be less ambitious than that? Let's start with at least To the city fun, and to the east of Selephos, or east of the town plain. Of course, we need to make sure that we can do so by means of the road at least. North to Akureyri. We could start out of Akureyri and go to the convention, e.g. with separate road routes north of the Mold dump neck and forward in Hrafnagil and east of the Venetian tunnel, etc., because there's a lot of traffic there. It is the second - largest circuit in this sense in the country following the southwest corner or surrounding the capital. There's work to do. Connect Soynjörg, airport performance, land transport, and much more, Mr. President, could be discussed in much more detail if time permits. I accept the will for the project that the adjustments are, of course, improving. You welcome everything, no matter how little it was in itself, compared to the disaster that had been offered for three years and that was to be offered with this plan. Then may I remind you, even if the government is here now, this was a government proposal. It was the entire government and both administration groups behind the transport program set up here in the spring or the spring of last spring. Didn't you? I'm not going to start complimenting them out of nowhere, though they now only try to scratch the tray. [[The president calls.]] This is what they're offering themselves. The members of the House of Governments agreed as late as our last spring that this disaster would be on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. It is fun to listen to experienced people who know things through and through. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator into the funding of the road. In fact, the problem might be said. A senator in part answered that in his speech, pointing out that the income did not really go along with prices and that we take a lot of money taxing fossil fuels. I agree completely with what. A senator, how remarkable it is that we do not have the new opportunity of forming with low global prices on oil, to place no greater spells on fossil fuels in order to make use of the road! Just like what? One senator put it this way, in effect, wasted three years. But now we are in this position, and hopefully this government will not remain in power. We have a transport program that is highly ambitious. I would like to direct people to review the tables in my section's committee sheet showing transport contributions as a share of GDP in what position we are. It's amazing. But what can a new government do? We will surely agree that the palms of this group need to be spitd out and added. How can we do that? Where does the money go? Like what? A senator's trace is an enormous number of projects ahead of him. With all these tourists and increased transportation in the country - we're trying to have a regional policy where people are supposed to live in the country - we have to build roads, destroy bridges, and do winter service and what all of this is. We had 80 billion in debt that we could have provided in some part of our roads. [[The president calls.]] We haven't taxed fossil fuels like we should have. What would be the first task if it were. A senator would be a minister tomorrow and should be able to finance the road system and improve further?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u78	Mr. President. I'll try to answer that. Now I hope I'm about to remember this for a while, and I won't be embarrassed. In a rough way, this means that the so - called market income for road construction is part of an unbound fuel charge, part of an oil charge, and a weight tax. It is both a special and a general fuel charge, a special and a general oil tax and a heavy tax. The government receives a large amount of tax money from the fuel to the roads. However, it is after the government receives all the worthwhile extra tax from a fuel trade for traffic. The government gets tolls all due to new vehicles being brought into the country. The government receives the car fees. The government takes in an enormous amount of taxpaying from traffic. It is obvious to me that it should be brought up to the standards we've used in the past few years, to bring up the marketed incomes, or their values, in liters per mile, per mile, to the standards we've used in the past few years. With increasing traffic, I guess that would mean an additional 8 billion next year. That's a good way to go. But while the need is so great and because of the rapid growth of the government tax revenues in these years, we must only move some of them through the state's funds into the roadways. Because we need more than 8 billion. We need to put 12 to 15 billion new ones into this every year for the next few years. To start working out the slack. Otherwise, we'll just have to hold on to our disappeared. I think it's very manageable. And it has been quite easy to do so because of the low fuel price. Now OPEC was reaching an agreement that may mean that something is going up, but then it's not later a good time to get ahead of it, to take at least a significant step in working out and moving that income directly into action. So it's just a matter of political will and half an hour's work. I think it would be half an hour to write a memo for officials on how we were going to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u79	A respectable president. Then I'd like to go back to the airport and ask questions. The feature of the largest section discusses airports and any future arrangements, whether Istavia should handle both domestic and international operations or how it will be handled. Istavia has been criticized for focusing heavily on building at Keflavík Airport, which is certainly necessary. In fact, even the subsidies on national flights, the sightings of international flights as part of the transport system, and the west, the east, and even the Arctic and the cost of reaching the capital. It's a huge group of paintings. We always seem to stop talking about the airport in Watermamur. Of course, the matter is bigger than that, though it certainly mattered. [[The president calls.]] Then I just generally ask about these flying issues, what position do you have? A senator has.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u80	Mr. President. I was now serving on committees that were to submit proposals to the government for action in an effort to reduce domestic payload prices. We had a little work to map the possibilities of the environment, and we had calculated that we should translate such a 15-18% reduction in average international flight. That was direct suggestions that governments could have chosen between them. A single and very simple effort was to drop or reimburse the value tax from the fuel in the domestic flight. So today, airlines pay worth tax on fuel in domestic flights instead of international flights. Because it's not a valuable tax duty, they don't back off. They eat the sink, as they call it. Sitting with him, and no embezzling against him. Two hundred million would go out of the equation. Then we are talking about 300 million into this, which, of course, may be considered in various ways. I don't like the idea of changing the airports and throwing away at the little airports. I would have felt that Istavia might have considered the possibility, since circumstances are more favourable to negotiate with local residents for the ministry and for the business. [[The president calls.]] There are precedents, and they have been successful, with local communities with their own house and the service of the airport on the basis of a contract with Istavia. It could be a practitioner in many places.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u81	A respectable president. I listened to an inspired talk. A senator and a lot of things were done there. I must admit, though, that I felt angry that the coasts were down some 23 years ago. I hope, now, that people sitting here on this suit never had to put up with being angry all their life. It doesn't look like everyone's been at 23 years. But such a review would be helpful to mention that today there are beaches that are excellent. It must also be kept in mind that production companies and more, and only residents of the country, accept only the rapid and reliable availability of goods between parts of the country. All the products transported by manufacturing companies sometimes have to make the same day in the house. Then it's not. A senator agrees that we will look for all the ways to strengthen domestic flights? The following are some suggestions. There are various ways in which you can do this. It would clear the highway system, like a skunk. A senator rightly pointed out and is very important in increasing the flow of tourists and in increasing traffic safety and relief. I think it should be a priority. That's exactly what I think. And then you spent it. A senator has considerable time for a long-term plan. He is displeased with things that are presented there. I'd like to stick with the schedule we're discussing today. I was very happy to hear that. A senator would accept the will for the project. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir described it as an election plan, that it was being improved and much in, and clearly, that the election was about to come, but I felt that her fellow party was in the opposite direction, that it was a half-hearted paper and had to be done even better. Anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u82	Mr. President. If you had an unlimited talk time and could go over general government performance in regional languages, reading would have become even more intense. No, I wouldn't say that I was angry because the beaches were laid. On the other hand, I'm having a heat wave. I have passion for these matters, and when I feel that something is as infinitely wrong, it's a national interest to tear it down and let it out of my hands. It is a challenge to unwind the number of land transport chains once it is made monotonous to this, marketing giants who have it just the way they want it, and men have no choice but to pay the dues set up. I'm not talking about vegetables or daily products that need to be moved quickly. Of course, a lighter product with limited shelf life would not be remembered. And though, if it were now twice a week, there could be quite a deal of such a bludgek-wars to go on like that. But what about cream? Do cars have to carry it all over because it has so little shelf life? What about concrete iron? What about bulldozers? What about oil? It's all come up. Has a what? A senator, e.g. Be out on the northeast corner when there's most to be in the ocean cover for the rest of the Thors and the armed forces and the great ships are coming in, both the processing ships and the ships with fresh products? And take more tens of thousands of gallons of oil. There are trains of cars, one after the other, to bring the oil aboard. Wouldn't it be nice to have a distribution system on the beach, as you once knew? Is this what it needs to be? No. Not if we have opinions about it and contribute to the success of evolution as we wish it to be, for environmental reasons. Then there are tools and tools to direct it to a specific channel, with motivation and/or direct control procedures. We're supposed to have a complete tour of transport, with the environment in it and the settlement and other factors, since all of this is a natural composition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u83	A respectable president. I think both of us members of the Parliament have experienced just what conditions are like in many parts of the country. It is a fine example to refer to the situation in the northeastern country. I was just pointing out that even if beaches were worth a lot of money, and I don't object to growing them, they need to be practical in some way. And they're there to some extent, even though I totally understand the point of view. A senator, that he would like to increase them. What I want to point out, however, is that we should stick together for the international flight. More part of the transport committee is not to be suggested that Istavia only handles three flights. However, I have made my own suggestion that all these airports, the Loftur Airport, and the Akureyri Airport will be placed under one hat and that they will be named like Cheflavors Airports. That committee, with the Allied Council as Ruler, would rule there. [[The president calls.]] I think it's the best. On the other hand, Istavia spends some 20 billion on Keflavík Airports and is to be used in the construction of the road system around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u84	Mr. President. It's just a few blocks away. A senator says that the coasts are in progress, but little information is there, at several of the largest places. How did that come about? It was so that the last government was preparing a shipment of beach cruises. The terms of the divorce were about to become public and go out, but then they suddenly jumped in with the shipping companies and proclaimed the coasts. First one and then another. But they are very limited, and anything other than men had in mind, i.e. Coastal cruises that serve all the coasts with a front end have some urban area. Of course, with regard to the international flight, there are ways to try to make more money and to pay more with the airports that will never be expected and there is no need to make such demands. However, we know the rules, the European and competitive rules, that we must, in some respects, swallow that we are bound by. But of course, the path I think is good. A senator knows well, to let them pay its owner, the state, its profit, and the transfer of this interest to others, and the more adverse parts of the airport business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u85	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator for this great and powerful speech. Afterwards, where there is nothing. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's palace asked about the airports and the Icelandic airports. A member of the committee who was to try to take the fare in domestic flight: Was the committee considered going the same way as Nordtavia, or is the Norwegian way? There are airports, for example. Gardermien, paying off an airport somewhere else. This has proved to be good. Flights are naturally just part of the transport system in Norway. It's hard to travel, it's long distances, it's big and wide, and I think there's a lot we could learn from them. If there is more competition between these little faults, more traffic, then the price could go down. Similarly, there was difficulty. A senator, too, about beaches. Now I've heard that much of the heavy transport in this country is being taken from East to Cheflavík to sell to foreign lands. Wouldn't it be better to add these opportunities and try to strengthen the airports in the East, in the West, or wherever it is now, so you could fly the fish straight out of there instead of driving them all the way to the Chefavour airport? It was considered in that committee as a course of thought. When the passenger flight arrived and more were involved, a senator sat there?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u86	Mr. President. Yeah. Of course, we considered only Norway's arrangement, and we knew some of it. We even examined ferry cruises from the islands on the north coast of Germany and in a country where, in some cases, the population guarantees free fare in the ferry so that they can be fully involved in cultural and other activities on the mainland. In Norway, this is not exactly so that the income of the Gardermoen is moved directly within any system in another airport. It's like they're building it up on roommates. They have a mother's club, and there's money between them, and they have to be that way because of European competition. However, in addition to that, the Norwegian state has a handsomely handsome strength to support much of the smaller routes in Norway. I remember a few years ago as their main international airline, in addition to the SAS, and now Norway, Widerøe. 70% of the flight routes that Widerøe flew on within Norway were state strength. Thus, they maintain flights to smaller places all over Norway, according to the largest positions. There's a flight out of Bergen, out of Tromsø and out of Oslo, etc. This large network they build up and run with considerable government support. There's nothing to argue about in Norway. That's what I know. On the other hand, they do so by paying taxes directly from a government fund and, on the other hand, by moving money through partners. Of course, it would be a huge improvement in having a straight flight from Akureyri or Egls, preferably in both locations, such as in the case of freight and fish exports. It's kind of remarkable that the enormously powerful fish industry, e.g. In the Eyjafjörður, which works just a lot of fresh fish in flight, it is being driven all the way south or sent to Norwegian, which is actually quite used by the fish industry in the north and east. A fine example of how important and how good it is to have such transportation out of the quarters is the Norwegian language. We'd have to have a weekly ferry from Akureyri, too. [[The president calls.]] Of course, a straight flight would be most welcome. Whether there is a basis for it has been reexamined.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u87	A respectable president. That was a very informative answer in the middle of nowhere. Senator. I also understand that the subsidies made in the Norwegian air system are largely similar to children, ◯ infants, and Hungarians, as it is called, the youth up to 25 years of age. This should apply to Iceland too. Parents want their children to come home from school from time to time. In Norway, people have to apply for a long way to go to high school and university. That's when this good connection is important, that you can go home to Mom's for dinner for the weekend, and it doesn't cost a quarter of a mile. It's important that it goes to the 7 thousand. If so, perhaps it would be possible to do so. It is also this aspect of the matter, this foundation plan to maintain a closer relationship with the home that makes Norway less ablaze than Iceland. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u88	Mr. President. When you start looking at it and comparing it with other countries, I can say just as it is, sometimes I get angry. Well, then I might. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's precious son said I was angry. In the chapters, it's so pathetic for us. I gave an example of the inhabitants of the German islands who live on the islands north of Germany's shore. There the Kingdom sees to it that the squares are free of charge. Travellers, of course, would pay a ferry toe. But residents who live on the islands simply get free tickets. Let's just take Grimey, if we want to stand on their backs. This was one of the plans made by the British Committee and has not yet been carried out, to improve transportation to the island. [[The point is, we agreed.]] Yeah. Why is it not so that, for example, every resident of Grima, who is thus a regular resident, is not entitled to such a home. six to eight free trips per year, or at least a very dribbling ticket? So he can seek medical help and attend services to Akureyri or that's why he's on his way down south or abroad or something like that. There's the difference between the facilities, and indeed it's even funnier in the same rural society because it's all part of the Akureyri trade place, then it's once again Piglet, free in a ferry for its inhabitants. But those monsters pay a considerable amount of money on both the ferry and the flights and receive no subsidies except the state's grant that is certainly for the flight route. But it does not prevent the fare from being very high, such as it is understandable. It costs a lot of money to keep a flight in a small place like Gímney. There could be a lot better there. For example, by paying special care or by having a free amount of travel per year for the population. Tourists, who, on an increasing scale, are streaming to the Grima Islands, too, with the flight these years; of course, they are to pay expenses. [[The president calls.]] Thus, we would be facing these unique circumstances and would be evening the situation. The situation of these people with respect to others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u89	Mr. President. We'll talk about a transport plan for the next four years. There is much to say about transport. I object to the fact that the more part brings along in the final meters this injection on transportation but has been unable to place any information on transport during the three years he has ruled. Interestingly, even on the front cover of the morning newspaper, we find that the country's road system is about to collapse. Is it a great offense that the case of this government thinks it is true, that such a headline is on the front cover of the morning paper, saying it a lot about this party and how he has been neglected this terms? The majority of their conduct is a disgrace to them, but they certainly want to try to correct the course of the last record. I can totally agree with all the changes made, but I would have liked to see them more tearful. Further improvements are made in the changes made by the less part of the transport committee, where this group has been starving for so long. Of course, it's decades of neglect. The government that was in power after the collapse was a pity to receive the national preparations in their condition, but it provided large sums of money, to form southern Western lands, something in the fourth billion, to improve the situation that made us a nation to be ashamed of. The larger projects that have been in progress for this terms are projects that started during the last terms, so this discussion should be remembered. This blessed government can't be proud of much, but now people wake up because they have to prove something in the election when they come home in the province, they need to be able to flaunt tens of millions of people here and there and be able to refer to it. It's just a check to the next government, because it will provide funding for the suggestions presented here. It will be the business of the next government to secure the budget. Let's hope we get a government that has ambitions for transportation because it's been a long time. I am a member of the country, and I have been living west on the coast, and transport is the start and end of everything about living in that area. So I have a perspective on this group and the understanding that transportation is the part that makes us Icelanders into a nation, connect us, and is the essence that there is one nation in this country that can enjoy health, education, culture, and other things life offers. We need to pursue a ministry wherever we are, and then we will have everything to do with the success of transportation. Work and communication, whether between people or businesses, depend on transportation. It has been well since the last three decades, since we began making the demands to break the demands for isolation of settlements and we were going to use a combined effect in so many, our rejections, our companies, our health institutions, education institutions, social life, culture, and might continue to count. It was observed by the last speaker, which, according to Vega's assessment, would have to be so well 400 billion in the years to expand our transportation system according to the best of what happens in our neighboring countries, which we often apply in other languages. So there is a great deal of work to be done, since this group of languages has been neglected, as it turns out. We look at the continued evacuation of people from peripheral areas and weaker areas in the capital area. One of its factors is bad transport. That this aspect has been neglected, as we have seen, has resulted in continued evacuation of people from many parts of the country inhabited by the big capital area, where the service in many languages is within a particular radius in that area. When young people decide where they will build up their home and raise their children what transportation is like and how access is available to a variety of services in their surroundings. This is also true of the companies, their growth, and their improvement in transport. We can watch, for example. In recent years, however, the seawater has been growing and flourishing on the south side of the West. During the summer, people have been working together on the south side of the West and north of the West. Modern Westerners have served a lot of things, and they have been on both sides working together to expand the work programme. Much of the year is impossible between here and there. It will take as long to get from Iceland to Patrekjörður as it takes to get out of Iceland, if not any more. To this day in 2016, there is a serious shame in the way these cases remain. It is a color, and hopefully the more serious part to come in after the coming election will be ready to finance the needed changes, both from the greater part of the transport committee and from the smaller parts of the transport committee, and, of course, need to be done even better and to make a most needed campaign. Because I named the Animal Strait or that area, the Animal Strait and Daring Bearh, the last government put in order to speed them up with an investment plan. It was canceled when this government came into power, but fortunately, these projects were not terminated and they are on a project program. Therefore, I believe that the transport plan for the next two years or four years will be agreed on, that it is approved for the Road Building to work on the posts and contracts of contractors. The animal tunnel, for example, cost more than 9 billion. In the next two years, the estimated funding for that tunnel, in construction, is 4.5 billion, so that's a long way to go with this completion. If this is to be a concomitant development, which must be, for it is of little use by a Animal tunnel if the obstacle remains to be held in place where it is being spoken of, between 50 and 60 years of course and over 30 miles [20 km], then the construction of Dopheringshs costs 4.5 billion, and the next two years it is estimated only to be 850 million, so it remains to finance road projects there for about 3.6 billion. You ask yourself: " When will the construction of animal and duchess at the same time be completed so that the West will become a commercial, intergalactic, and can interact, and people can have normal communication between culture and education and health care? ' A medical facility has now been merged under one hat, e.g. in the West, in the police office, in the county, and in the like. There's no waiting for years. I don't quite see when both of these projects will be completed if more money is not put in it to complete it in a shorter time. You cannot wait forever on such works, since the basis for bleeding in these areas. They need government support in the construction of jobs in the area to strengthen their home and the human life there. And I've also said that local and cross-linking roads, e.g. In my district, the Northwestern accreditation, quite extraordinary in the last few years and decades. We can look at the Hun Lakes, the way the lakes have been shown pictures from where there's a hole next to a hole. School cars have to drive along with children every day, and this is not acceptable, except for tourists traveling in this area who have never seen anything like it. It's amazing. This may be transferred to urban armies in which conditions are bad, malar roads, wood coasts, and southern Western roads are referred to as something other than the Coasts and the way in the Aareshrepp, but projects there are not going to end, so it is connected to the world of mankind in the year around but is not closed for three, four months, as it can be over the winter when it is all shut down. It's a matter of priorities and financing. This government has renounced income during this terms, up to 50 billion. Today, people boast that the treasure of the Kingdom is swollen with material things. That is mainly the income of tourists, 70 billion have been mentioned during the past three years. There are taxes and a stable supply of banks on the disposal of currency stores. Since then, government funds have made a lot of money from the public during the past few years, even though it has given up a large amount of money that is money, fishing costs, and other things about electricity taxes or big taxes, the energy tax, and other products that have been taken away. We get here to the country of tourists, an estimated 1.7 million tourists are coming this year and are heading for 2.4 million next year. Although all this income is from tourists who have been spoken of by the Association of Tourism, they have made no return in any way in transport and infrastructure during the three years that the government has sat on the lap of this series. Then she's gonna wave her voters in front of her voters and voters in the next election that she's going to do quite a catch-up and pull up her pants. It promises all the beauty at the expense of the government that will achieve the end of this election. It's not very noble, I must say. I am glad, though, that late as it is, that people will wake up to life in this group of languages and trust that it will become such a government that will make them feel that they have an obligation to all the people of the country wherever they live to provide decent transportation and to maintain service in the land's road system, both in the air and on the uterus, because it makes us one nation and must be if we are to maintain a natural estate throughout the country. With regard to airports, it is also a complete disgrace to the fact that the airports have been neglected. As an example, I'm dealing with the Capitol airport, which has been completely neglected and has not put any money into maintenance. The airport has been spoken of in a sheep's jar, where tourism is expanding. Why are these smaller airports not available when we receive this tremendous number of tourists into the country, in order to encourage tourists to go all over the country and visit places where they live and look at the beauty of nature? Nothing is done to promote it. Of course, whether smaller airports have been pulled out of parentheses in recent years but are in fine shape and do not take much to open again, or what? These portals are to open wide and wide around the country in order to spread the pressures of the southwestern corner so that there is no such massive traffic in the highways of the country, which have become extremely insecurity and danger because all road maintenance has been swept away for the past few years, but it is said that it may need 11 billion, so it should be maintained. The more part of this plugin does not reach that number. It may well be said that better men are the best to live. No doubt such a statement can be made regarding the changes made here. I would like to say, in the end, that I will give high priority as a senator in the next term, that public transportation will be intensified and that internal flight will be seriously classified as public transportation, and that it will be the same level as that of the people who can be able to cross places to the capital and on the flight within the country at a price as common people. It is not normal to go to the mainland and be there for four days, paying for your full food, flying, and sleeping for the same price as it costs twice to leave Reykjavík to Iceland. Something's wrong. We have to get in there and use both the profits of Isavia at the Chefjordur Airport in this suit and the taxpayers of the common people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good and extensive speech. I'd like to ask her about public transportation, if it's not just time to face a ideological crisis based on the lack of competition. We'll see if we want public transportation, if we want a strong transport network with good flights or good bus transport, it'll cost the taxpayer something. Wherever we go, we can see that it is a good public transportation because it is prided on furthering it on the part of the State. This does not happen on a competitive basis. We see that flight prices have dropped to and from the country only on certain routes. It is very important that we watch that prices have only fallen to a small number of European cities, e.g. if we fly from Keflavík to London, the price has been dropped, but at the same time, it's good if we look at other direct flights at Iclanda. Are we not in a ideological crisis that certain government groups simply refuse to face when it comes to public transportation and this vital network of culture, health, and service, which the airports are supposed to be part of, so on aviation grid, in reality? Is it not time for us to create a new Community covenant when it comes to transportation in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u91	Mr. President. Yes, I can say with what. A senator with regard to the thought that we as a nation and society must begin to take public transportation more closely than we do today and take more transportation into that category, not only by public or bus, as we call it, but also through air travel. We live in such a scattered country that it is certainly quite another arm to leave Akureyri, Eglels, or Icesafa here in the capital area where most people need to attend a regular service and be able to go between less than an hour or less or to run high for six hours or more in order to reach the capital with the expected loss of employment and the like. I think we should think this all over again. Everything cannot be developed in a competitive environment. We know it as a small nation, and of course, we need to make use of the interracial effects of a small nation in order to make things work. Not all are in the perfect market area where everything can be put in competition. If we are going to live in this country above our heads, we must raise this to a higher level of level so that we will agree that we will pay to use the quality of the country all around the country, the manpower, and the service there, where people live in the country's area as well as to reach the capital area and attend the services they need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u92	A respectable president. That's where we're at. A senator completely agreed. I'd like to return to something else that is more related to the West, especially south of the West. The Western Sunkeepers are really just traffic accidents in themselves, the way the roads are there. These paths, I don't know if you can call this road that cars are running up and down in order to get around, that's all they call just death traps. Vessels are a wonderful place. There are many things that are important to our culture, especially the tourist industry. Deceency e.g. It should be one of the natural forces of the world, that is what the grave saves really is. We're talking about one of the world's largest bird tanks. There are bird lovers all over the world, and even people who have never seen birds before who want to come to see the grave; these are often thousands of people often in the day, but the road there is by no means dependent on this. We're just offering the danger home. Is it not really our duty, our moral obligation to tourists, that either close this road and simply forbid people to go there or fix it? It is in the committee's list of smaller forms that suggest that the road to death be greatly improved. As the situation is today, it's a total disaster that's just gonna happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u93	Mr. President. A smaller proportion of the environment and transport committees just proposed a number of extracurricular initiatives in addition to the much of the transport committee, including the road to the Canal, the Forest Road, and the corrosion of roads in the halls. We also proposed a greater budget for the region, which, of course, is relevant to a wide and wide area, than some areas are back in the country. I've grown up on the bad ways of much of my life, and I've traveled many mountain roads, and all kinds of pagan, hollow roads, and I'm sorry about the rocks here and there, but I have to say that when I last went to the Candret, although I didn't call all my grandmother on these roads, I was shocked at what the road was. I can only imagine the shock of people coming on a bus, but there are regular trips with international travelers and international tourists, domestic tourists, they must be shocked. This road is a disaster trap. You just say thank you for not becoming a serious accident there. Of course, we cannot direct large automobiles like buses with tourists and small cars on which many tourists are in order to examine this natural wonder, this largest bird reserve in Europe, on this treading, we cannot take that risk. We have to fix it before it goes bad. I wholeheartedly agree with that. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u94	A respectable president. We'll discuss a political arrangement for a four-year transport program, which is actually only three years old, from 2015•2018. We've been waiting a long time for this plan to happen. Environmental and Transport Committee. A long time. And even longer after the committee saw fit to take care of it. She was so prepared to take care of a committee earlier this summer, but she was not taken care of until late and eventually, unfortunately. There are a number of problems with how this transport process was conducted. I must admit, however, that I am very impressed with the design of this kind, simply because it has been lacking in the Icelandic government, i.e. Making plans in the future. I like the effort of this four - year transport program. There are some things I would like to cover. Many of them are particularly concerned with traffic security, as well as about certain ideologies or thinking that we need to develop when we look at a new tax system in Iceland. To take up only the thread that we had. paritaprevir With Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who lived before, as for the Doomstafjörður, some roads are simply bad that I think it would just be better to close them if they were not to be repaired in the near future. When we talk about the Doomsaving Road, we are talking about a tremendous increase in traffic there in the last two to three years. We see that there are large cars, disabled cars, cars that simply don't fit on the road, which travel that way, which is hollow, and there's a precipice straight down there. I drove this road earlier this summer and I was quite ready to stop the car and lie down on the ground and go to cry, simply because I was so scared to drive there. Even for experienced drivers, who don't call all their grandmothers in these cases this is a very bad road. What makes him even worse is a large number of tourists who have begun to attend this place. It's one of the wonders of the world, so big a bird-surrection as Doomshold is, especially with the uniqueness that it is the largest ghost-surrection existence. The lion is not everywhere in the world. We're lucky he wants to stay here with us, because Iceland is great. But it's very interesting to look at this wonder of nature, and it's very nice to be there at the end of the world. If my suggestions have ended. The environment and transport authorities, in terms of not fixing this road, are going to follow, so we can see that this road will be fixed, simply closing it down. You can't keep doing this the way it is now. There are hundreds of people going around every day. There's big buses going out there. We can see that a catastrophe is in store for us. It's just that sometimes we have to make responsible decisions that are very difficult. The choice is between fixing or closing this road. I'm totally on that line. There are many things that you might do much better in this transport program. As noted in a committee list. less part of the budget is transport contributions as a proportion of GDP not in the high ground they should be compared to pre-druption. It's about making long-term plans. It seems that this government does not intend to sit long or rigid enough to do so, for most of its efforts are more and less failures, so I agree with what she has done. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur from the gym. We've got roads to finish. For example, the work that began in the late 20th century, in establishing a road system on the West, is a traffic accident, a means of being called roads. It is absolutely essential that the major routes of Western and Eastern Europe be malabundant. Of course, this is not to be a question of an ideal pot; our roads are simply to be safe, no matter where they are. The situation is that our roads are not safe. It matters where you are. That's what's incredibly unfair about the Icelandic road system. We're not talking about some path that one or two are going about. No, we're talking about hundreds of people. It is even the only lifeline for the capital to travel that road, or tens of thousands of dollars, to get into the ferry, and sometimes it is not possible. It is imperative that we make a great effort to build roads in Iceland. This is a question of change of mind, of doing so. Of course, this is a great work. Iceland is a young country when it comes to building roads. Iceland had no roads but rights between here. Yeah, okay, there were trails that could be either riding or walking, but Iceland's main means of transportation up to the 20th century were coastal cruises, and they've been cut off. Now that I'm on the beach, I'd like to agree with that as many as possible. Councilmen have mentioned, i.e. the importance of getting beaches back on. Icelandic roads do not cover the current heavy transport. If we're in such a bad situation as we are today, we need to find other ways. In order to reduce the current road system, we just have to pick up some beach cruises. At the same time, we are in an ideal economic landscape to make Istavia a bigger company that is responsible for more airports. I think it's most expedient to pick up what's in Norway, which is an interaction between subsidiary and profites are used to build up airports elsewhere, all in smaller places going through certain nuclear airports that have been defined and popular, including Gardermien, a very large and large airport where much work has been placed. But the idea is also that the international flight would never prosper for tourists or local residents, except because there are airports in other parts of the world to receive them. There's something we don't have enough in mind. We haven't done enough of our flight systems. The time has come for us to look at this in a more context. Norway and Iceland are very comparable countries in terms of transport. True, Norway is a much larger country than Iceland, but these countries have a common reason for transport, either because of weather or landscape, very difficult. As a result, they have built up a government - controlled flying net. Air travel has been defined as public transportation. I think it's extremely important from an ideal angle. Now we have much discussion about students, especially students who come from abroad. It is true that the discussion stated: "Why should people return to the home of weapons or Bilddal when they have left home at 16 years of age and then are 26 years of age at the end of school? Where, then, does it belong? Where did it grow up? If we want to stay inhabited in a foreign country rather than in the capital area, Isafjordur, Akureyri, and Egls, we simply need to make a decision to fly to these small places. So that the people, especially the young, have better contact with their hometown and live somewhere else, are not always absent; they come from the country but have lived in Reykjavík most of their lives. This question about transport and transport is primarily about geographic matters, a question about whose country we want to build. I think it's particularly important that we set up a similar arrangement and it's in Norway, where they fly to the small places where little planes are being used. It's relatively expensive, but it's much to the limit. There are different subsidies available. A certain number of tickets is supplied. In the same way, age affects the sufferer. Notes for children and adolescents are much more lenient than adults, who are often in full favor. The idea is that where students have to go to school in a foreign land, because that's just the way it is, and, unfortunately, they're going to stay, they're not going to face the reality we live in. You can't do everything in the same place. By having those fliers on a generous discount, perhaps up to 70%, there will be more socializing between areas. Although you may have to cross the line on your way, you may be worth no more than 350 Norwegian jars, up to 700 bucks. It's a $17,000 Norwegian, 14,000 k. I know this because I have had to use this plane ticket myself, since I have lived in Norway and have a family in Norway. Only way to get there is by flight. You don't drive from Oslo to Bergen or Palede or wherever you're going. It's simply not a good or safe road system. The transport program offers a clue to future vision when it comes to airports. On page 18. 11 of the largest section's committee party says, by permission of presidents: ▪ The domestic flights and airports in the region are therefore not very negative. The only way to deal with this is to view domestic flights as not necessarily a competitive market. While there is a competitive national flight market, it will result in a higher price. It's just that way. We can compare this with, and I mentioned this in my counterargument earlier, an air travel from Iceland. If we look at where it is cheap flights, then a cheap flight is a competitive one. It's not a cheap flight to Brussels, because there's only one airline flying straight to Brussels. There's a very high price. However, it is a cheap flight from most airlines to London, Copenhagen, to Berlin. It's a cheap flight to specific cities in Spain, Alicante. But it is not necessarily an inexpensive direct flight from Keflavík to places where there is no competition for flying. We cannot run our international flight if it is to be a specific network, for the city of Reykjavík is doing a certain service, both medical and various administrative work that people need to attend to. Then the flight is something we should subsidize. We need to build a airport, make sure that there is a real possibility for people to get to Reykjavík when they need it. As the situation is now, it is just not often that way. It's either impossible, it just needs a fog, and it's not flying from Iceland. We're talking about how expensive it is, people don't have time for it. That's very bad. Regarding other means of transportation we have. I'd like to mention Baldur's ferry, which, as far as I know, is too expensive. There's a quarter of a mile. For the car, then 5,000 bucks. on you. There are similar squares in Norway in many other places where either one is free or just a moderate price. In this case, we will see that if we are not going to fix the south side of the West, let us offer a higher payment at that cost. The way people are being treated, the way they are being treated, the way they live is all right. The largest traffic accident in the history of Icelandic traffic is the west road to my judgment. We need to do much better. We need a much better perspective and a certain understanding that the reason why people feel that they are all right to pay taxes, to form in Norway, is that a social agreement is acceptable to paying taxes, including that the road system and the transportation system are good. The fundamental reason why I love paying taxes is because we have a road system. There's always been an act of pride about having dropped taxes here and there. When you look at the bigger picture: Yes, we pretend to be a very high tax country, but how much do we get for our taxes? This is something that is very mutual among the people. One of our main reasons for thinking of paying taxes is that the roads should be in order; health care should be in order; education should be in order. While it is not, and while we have a government that considers taxes to be the best thing to imagine, we will not be able to do these things, based on a ideologies that all of us are to have equal access to our government, to our health systems. The situation today is that it is not. Of course, I welcome the effort that comes from most of it. The environment and transport committee, but this is about a lot bigger. It's about a certain change of mind that I don't feel as if I'm missing the conversation, at least not with some members of the council. [[Up front.]] Besides, I think it can be done much better. There needs to be a much greater unity that this is a community - important factor to stay out of the country and to build up this third major industry, which Iceland has received as a gift, the tourism industry. We need to have proper transportation, a safe country. If we cannot guarantee safe transportation, we are simply to shut down certain roads. It's just come to that place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u95	President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good and interesting speech. I want to ask her first of all about two things. First, we are approaching elections, and I would like to ask about the main focus of Pirata on transport in general. Now, of course, we are discussing this particular process of transportation, which is coming up later and in a somewhat strange context in the sense that this is working here with change proposals and decisions that will actually have to be met by the next government. Even if this assembly completes its work, it must be carried out by someone else in harmony with the plan. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for this and perhaps ask her to tell me how she feels about the present arrangement, how to work it in this way, that we have a transport policy, a policy policy strategy, from the council that has clearly differed in importance because of its lateness, and it is even whole years in which there are no transport plans and are being made to make decisions on individual roads even by transport programs and budgets, etc. I would like to ask her if this was specifically discussed in her study. I find it interesting because this is a huge group of paintings, and it is likely that a new council will discuss it as much as any previous council. Second, I would like to ask her if she could see a better way than the one normally used here in setting priorities. Sometimes you feel that your priorities are random, depending on the amount of pressure you feel from the area, etc. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator have anything to say about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this good question. I'm sure that the methods of transportation that have been highly regarded, or just for transportation in Iceland, have always been very random. This appears to be the Typian ballot, or whatever it is, to appease their homelands. For me as a new and inexperienced member of Congress, it was coming out of the country and suddenly talking about a tunnel I didn't recognize from my work as the representative of Reykjavík, but is something I find very interesting. About the first question why. A senator on the policy of Pirata transport, we have not a comprehensive policy in transport, but a policy when it comes to specific issues, such as infrastructure and e.g. An electric accompaniment that is supposed to be part of my transport program. All of this is about how we will arrange transportation for the future. However, there has been a lot of talk on the grass root of transportation, and I think most people believe that just as the same quality should be on the Internet around them, we want to look to the road system in the same way. The road system is just a net. Transport is only a network to be accessed. No matter where they are, we need to make sure that people have equal opportunities to get around them. I think our basic thinking as a class is to accept the idea of equal access to the Internet, the U.S. Department of Transport, into the policy of transport. I think that's really good. I think we're generally very supportive of the structure and better road systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u97	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I'd like to stick to these main priorities a little bit better. I agree with the senator, and I think we all experience it here that this is, at least, at least. not quite the way it's going to be. As I said before, there is too much random decisions or decisions that may not be reasoned specifically except by the power of certain members of Congress or certain rural communities, etc. Hv. A senator here mentions one guide that is equal, i.e. An equation based on a nest. That's why. A senator may be guided primarily by looking to urban development, that people can choose to live in the full assurance that they are at least not difficult to get in place. This is one of the points you see. The Senator specifically mentioned the British Transboundary shuttle Baldur, which truly many people use just like a highway, and because of what is both a long and difficult way in southern Western weather, it is so often that those who make for the production of Patrecks use the ferry rather to travel to the Hólar and then drive south. Then you wonder, " Should such transporters not be viewed as public transportation to a much greater extent?'And I would like to ask the senator about it. Then perhaps I would like to ask the senator about the details of the job structure, the views of tourism, the security issues, and, above all, whether the national application program is a tool to do this better, that the parts of the country themselves have more priorities in their territory, and the local people are more involved in the management of their own priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u98	A respectable president. Whatever it is. A senator came in here right at the very end of the day, I think the transfer of the so-called direct democracy that we want to practice, of course, is the people in the vicinity of the environment who are to make the decision at the end of the day. I think a schedule is exactly something we should be working on. Besides, it was so interesting during discussions at the Committee with the rural organization that as soon as the rural areas in the East and the West began to communicate, we found that they were dealing with exactly the same problems. It's not about praising one way here or there, it's about having a whole mind, a complete vision. That's why I think such a political spot in a transport program is potentially the most dangerous thing to do for the road system. It would be better to draw close to people, closer to those living in the territory, closer to those who need the ministry, that they really make the final decision. However, it is not. I don't feel that I'm a judge of what way to fix as an agent at the moment. Environmental and Transport Committees, unless I've been there. That's why I'm taking e.g. It's a death-save-for-the-moment experience because I've been there, and I've experienced it. That is why it is so important that we use this form of democracy, allow the local people to try to set priorities for the most important tasks. Then we must start to look more from engineering grounds, based on what is safe because our roads are not safe. They are far from safe. We may have two safe roads, the rest is very dangerous. That's why I say some of these roads we should just shut them down if we're not going to fix them. It's only time for this to happen because there has to be some special interest in safety. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u99	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss the opinion of the committee and the adjustment to a proposal for a four-year transport plan for 2015-2018. I agree with the words of the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, why. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þórhallsson's son, it is happy that we are finally discussing a transportation program, and we now see the end of that vital work. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to complete the transport program in this ideal period, and I'm not going to trace that story, it's known to us all. But I strongly suggest that we close her up in this storm. A country - and - country rural population has called for this tool to keep the necessary projects going and to start others. All of us know that the maintenance of roads has been far from acceptable, and the condition of the road system is said to have become relatively poor in many places after long-term cuts and small projects. But with the improved status of the state funds, there is now a fine opportunity to make significant improvements. It must be one of our main tasks to improve the transport system, for there is a basic element in maintaining the quality of life in the country. It connects rural areas and increases job areas, increases security and facilitates the cooperation between rural communities, which has increased much over the past few years. It can also indicate a tremendous increase in the number of tourists and their share in increasing stress on the road system. If we are really going to spread them around the country to strengthen tourism throughout the country, then the basic premise is that evil roads do not inhibit roads unless we offer for walks. That's all that calls for benefits. I can well agree with those who are critical of this class of inactions. In fact, it seems to me that there is a complete solidarity among all groups to improve and improve. It is therefore a pleasure to see the additional areas suggested by the Environment and Transport Committee. One suggestion suggests an increase in a total of 2 billion years in 2017 and 2018 in maintenance, 8 billion instead of 7 billion in this category. This also suggests that the year 2017 and 2018 will be awarded at a rate of 500 million each year. K. In addition to the asphalt of a malbian link road and the same amount of money on a bridge, plus 100 million. K. conducted on local roads. The missions are enough, and I would like to specifically point to the abundant maintenance needs in all cross-country areas across the country. Their maintenance is a very important traffic security issue. In many places, the coverup has long gone, and it has been futile to block a road when a device is scraped on rocks. All over the country, there are ways in which schoolchildren are driven under unsatisfying circumstances and residents of various rural areas live in a very bad road. Transport issues are being looked forward to as important as rural development in the country and are, in effect, the basis for strengthening farms and the need for a wide range of employment. Roads provide contractors in each area of work that returns to the countryside. I support the food of the greater part that feels that priorities are important so that traffic security is in the foreground. Then I'd like to point out that increasing requirements for meaning lead to an increase in cost. One storm can result in a need to mark a new road, make roads, and repair them. This has to be done at all times. Modern standards do not allow it to be asked until spring, as was the custom at some time. That's a long time ago. V.E.G. President. I'd also like to draw attention to the proposals of some of the things I think are pretty good, but it's a lie to suggest 300 million. K. In 2018, as a starting point to find ways to secure homeland soil and moderate cargo prices. This is thought to be part of the public transport system to strengthen the position of the international flight. I think it's a point worth looking at, as well as whether smaller airports are not a practical option for tourists, since the use of smaller planes has increased in domestic flights, e.g. correspondent in the United States New and smaller aircraft are found to be more efficient when traveling in the country. Obviously, they take less time. We have many unused airports that could well be viewed as an advantage. Flights are a fine way to distribute tourists around the country, since this not only strengthens the tourism but also relieves the pressures of the country's roads that have come pretty close to the limit of endurance if not over them. The international flight is a very important population, East, North and West, with most of the administrations in the capital area as well as a large part of the public service there. Thus, it is the only realistic way to travel to a large number of people in the country, i.e. that they should be able to do their business at a reasonable time, and not spend everything on one day of work or more on travel for a short meeting. So I agree with the concept that the State will provide the welfare of the local inhabitants. There's an enormous amount of community interests in this place. V.E.G. President. I'd like to disqualify my conversation with a planned project in the Northeast standard. I'd like to first mention the proposed rebuilding of the bridge over the glacier. It is a very urgent task that has been delayed but is now scheduled in Section 2. This project is very important since there is a link between North and Eastern countries. All of us can imagine conditions that can arise when and in the case of natural disasters in the South. A greater proportion of them offer proposals to increase profits in the Valley of Bjords, the city's road through the Northern Republic, the Valley of Hörg, the Fallifos Way, and still be added to the Bay of Bermuda. It is important that once the lid is completed through the Valley of Slither, Axe Road will be continued as planned. It is all urgent, but it is by no means enough. Also, I would like to mention Brefjörður, one of the tasks that have been laid aside and that do not come in until the third period, such as the recycling of the route through the Shiver River, where a single bridge is to be suspended. At the end of the flight, the matter is important, that materials from the Valallian tunnel are now being used to build an airport at the Akureyri Airport. This assignment has long led to a long change. I really hope that we can see it starting and leading to it. Also, I would like to suggest some additional funding for the renewal of flight equipment at Húsavík Airport. It has increased traffic as a result of increasing activity and a pleasure to see how much the locals use the flight, which is devoted in part to the subsidies of the labor union. Now, in the year 2017, the end of the procedure will be in the construction of North Ground March. It is then assumed that geological research will be carried out on the expected role in the treatment of coastal waters. According to the Committee, the majority feel that there is now room to begin the Safari tunnel along with the design of animal soils. It's really interesting to consider. Walking is an important part of the strength and link of symmetrical shapes, and I would like to direct people to an intriguing study of the University of Akureyri and the University of Iceland. It examined the position of the sexes before and after the opening of the Shingro and their impact on the local labour market, women's job opportunities, and domestic workforce. There is evidence that the tunnel has a positive effect on women's employment efforts. Evidences from this study are very positive and indicate that the construction of soils in the region, where urban cities are more linked together to create larger areas of employment, has a positive effect on sexual equality. This is a very important point for me, and an important part of the family discussion. Then I'd like to welcome proposals for more money to ride a bicycle. It is worth considering how many people travel through the land on wheels, for this often presents a danger and a question, Is it not time to consider whether it is desirable to allow bicycles on every road? Safety issues need to be taken into consideration. V.E.G. President. I've covered a few things, but I've certainly not covered a complete list. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u100	President. Thank you. A senator for her speech. I have two main questions to her that are subject to both, in a sense, that the changes in the memory of the part that are our suggestions in addition to the adjustment proposals of more things that we support. On the one hand, there is a road maintenance situation that has been well considered today. We know that in the proposal that came from a minister of its time, 7 billion were expected. Between 2017 and 2018. A billion more is proposed to make it 8 billion each year. At the meeting of the Committee, representatives of the Roadmaker pointed out that an 85.9 billion will be required. Every year in maintenance of road roads, only to keep the disappearing. Then we wouldn't really be improving our system in any way. However, for us to improve the quality of our lives, along with the necessary maintenance, we need 11 billion. These are the main experts in these matters. With reference to this argument, then, in the memory of the section, we contribute to the additional 1.5 billion between 2017 and 2018 so that this will be 9.5 billion each year. We are closer, as it were, to work on the sins of neglect. I want to ask you why. The senator's attitude on this suggestion, for surely here we look at a suggestion that must be met by someone else, perhaps ours, perhaps others, but it would be at least something we're doing at the council right now is saying we were going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think we all agree, as I said before, that there's a lot to be given in. We need to step in, that is how things are, and we know as drivers that the situation is not good and far away. This has not been replaced during this ideal period, the need for reforms has been required for a long time. Yet, we face the challenge. I don't have the guts to be responsible for how safe it is to go to the money, but I wish we could do it. I wholeheartedly agree. I'd like to put much more into this, as in so many other things. But we need to show responsibilities and be careful to step to the earth in this regard and do things right. I think we're off to a great start here. The majority contributes to 8 billion instead of 7 million and more than 500 billion. K. An additional charge on malbigs, and the same sum on the bridges. That's 100 million. K. conducted on local roads. We know that they are very bad in many places. I can just list a few places where I know someone personally. I don't know the whole country, but I know it's very bad in many places.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. I think it's important that it, like all of us, use the time until a vote on this case to consider whether it's right for us to back up, i.e. the entire council, our proposed changes to improve the maintenance, since it's getting very serious. We are looking at accidents that lead to permanent an ark or even death all too often because of a lack of security and lack of security. I think it's very important that we consider it together. The second question to question. The senator is more specific, as it were, and has to do with the mold of Axi, i.e. that we put it down and that way, almost more in text than in numbers. In the modified memory of the part, we say that a road to Axi is immediately followed by action at the Berfjörður bottom and that this is a normal extension of that work. We know that the locals have been waiting very long for a road trip to the Bermuda World and that it will be completed, and there are lots of expectations in order to cross the Öxi wind. There's an enormously important link in this area, which I don't have to say. A senator has nothing to do with it because it's her home field. Of course, it's a huge project, and we know it, and the road model says it's worth up to 2.4 billion. No one would think of putting such numbers on the plan because then, in fact, we would be in a completely different setting. What we propose in the process of making adjustments is a preparation and tender invitation in 2018 of 50 million. K., i.e. Only in such a way will we show that we are going to bring them to work with an almost symbolic amount. I want to ask you why. A senator will see if she is willing to consider whether we do not know whether to agree on that matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's inquiry, and he can assure her that I am ready to think a lot of things over and over and over and what may be leading up to good things and building up. The future plan, the longer schedule, shows that Axes Road is in there. Like what? A senator told me in my speech that when the road around the Valley was completed and as it was done at the Berfjörður, Axar Road was a natural continuation. That's how I think it is. However, it may need a better nod or a better fixation. I'm ready to think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. Of course, making adjustments in larger and smaller aspects of transportation has many benefits. However, it is not possible to say this in this discourse and in this discussion that the performance of the members of the administrations and the government on transport during these terms is inexplicable. In these last days, it is completing the one course of transportation that she has likely completed during this most ideal period. It is easy for politicians to claim that they want to do things and are ready to look at things, but the budget is limited, etc., we know those answers. When I look at developments such as the committee has been doing in this discussion, we object. A senator, such as. Axi, and I can also name Kappus Road, which is in the councilman's district, and you have to pray. A senator to respond to the political criticism that involves the claim that the performance of the members of the government is ambiguous, especially in view of the fact that during this term, it has been shown to be more money to do more. But the ruling groups have failed to care for it, have not cared for it. How does that answer? A senator of such criticism?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u105	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the inquiry. In fact, I think I answered that question in my speech. It is not enough to do. I'm not going to be as strong as a word. A senator does, but the performance has not been good enough. We would have had to do much more about these matters. And that was to happen now, for, of course, everyone had a perfect period of time. With extra space and a better status of the state funds, it was a good thing to go to that job. We have that opportunity now. We're all supposed to lie down on one thing. I feel that we all agree on that here at this council Hall, all of us who have come up here, that we need to do better, and we're going to do better. I think that's got to be the case. We cannot enjoy this state of affairs, both Icelanders and foreign tourists, much more than we had in the past. The requirements have become greater for safety and for such things. We must meet that requirement, and we must improve. I can truly agree with the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. That's the answer from a senator. What was missing in it, in my opinion, is why it was done in this way. What is lacking behind what I feel is a deteriorating performance is a political priorities that I and my party have strongly disagreed with during this term. We have criticized the fact that 80 billion were placed in the so - called correction. We've criticized the decline of hunting fees. We have criticized many of the measures taken by present - day government groups and have said that the long - term cost of government is being caused by failure to take major action. That is what we see today. When things are blown down, this often results in much more cost. In terms of the interests of the economic situation, devolved roads are so direct. A senator, taking into account that there is a political support for such an assignment. What a blessing it is when these parts of the Lake plain are being used and used around the glacier! So I think it's really weird that for the present part it's not been a priority to finish that road and actually be done with it today. But like the situation, the roads that are not close enough have been floundered ten miles [10 km] away. The rest of him is - it's like going back on a trip about 30 to 40 years - a buried dirt road that thousands of people travel every day during the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u107	V.E.G. President. It's a question of priorities, that's right. Since the government has set priorities, it was decided that money and financial resources should be placed first in the medical system. There's no doubt about it. That's the first thing they did. The home's debt status has changed completely. We focused on getting the homes to help, and their positions are completely changed by the actions of the government. Now there's room for these projects. That's the order. The Senator speaks of Stinky Road, especially. Of course it is necessary, but as a senator in the district, I listen to the population as well. There are people who need to get back to their homes on boring roads. They ask: " Why emphasize this first before I get to my home well? These are all questions that we too need to answer. I understand the senator's speculation about Kappus Road. It's a very popular place. We need to get more tourists into this corner. There are many pearls that people should find easy to examine. This is one of the tasks we need to complete. Now it's increased funding. I'm fully supportive that we're done with all the other projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u108	A respectable president. How important it is that we be at the point that we discuss a four - year transport program with a later issue! and that the 12 year transport programme has also been submitted for 2015-226. It is of incredible importance that there is a four - year transport program to build up the transport system. I expect we'll be able to accept the transport programme and get out of the situation where there has been no transport plan. As I have previously stated from this platform, transportation is important and affects everyone. They are the largest community, as well as major health, education, welfare, employment, environment, and cultural issues. So improved transport is the pursuit of most Icelanders, and we would have many, and perhaps most people would like to see more funding for transportation now as always. So I especially welcome the added addition to the adjustment of more part of the transport committee to $2 billion. and comes in addition to the increase added to the plan between the years when it was submitted to this council. Despite the fact that we are, and I, including many times inconsistencies with the state of transport in this country, have been very good for me to get to know transport elsewhere in the north, through my cooperation with a member of the Parliament's Committee on the issues of the north. Every day we do not realize what we are dealing with, in fact, turning the environment around from those who live, such as. A little south in Europe, in densely populated countries and countries that are easier to cover. It is a constant project that we need to take care of and add to a larger share of the funds in which we have been doing in the past few years. I'm not going to keep a long number here, so I'm going to be able to make the seminar so that next I would speak a senator who comes from the same part of the country as I am, and she covered a number of priorities that would particularly focus on that part of the country and the district. The fact is that for a number of communities, transportation has a high level of ability to build up and develop. In the absence of a plan, as it has been in the past few years, there is inevitable anxiety, uncertainty, and uncertainty of the inhabitants of their communities, and uncertainty in cooperation between communities. Thus, it can lead to unnecessary dissatisfaction in the community as long as a clear, long - term policy of transportation is an important part of reconciliation and a collective view of the future, though we will never be agreed on in all things. I want to make a special impression that now providing for the end of the malbabundament of the ring when the completion of the final section of highway 1 and the conversion of the more part actually ensures that the project ends early in the course of the year, i.e. in 2018. At the bottom of the Cradle, construction is expected to occur at the Oxi in 2018, which is the basis for starting on the road to Oxi. This is one of the ways that connects settlements and is of utmost importance, such as those now being carried on at the Venetian tunnel and the North Land tunnel and intended for animal tunnels. Other important projects are also being carried out within the community and the need is within them. I would like to quote the opinion of the committee of the greater part: It is important to look for roads that are of importance to the nearby community at any local level which are normally network and local routes and that will increase traffic security. A greater proportion of these points point to the way in Eyjafjörður, Southfaring Way of the Far East, Mount Morgoth Road, the way of the Upper Southland, and the Grand Way of France, a vast variety of roads leading up to the Blue Lagoon and increasing activity in the ocean outways in Grinsavík. This is where many people go to their work on a day - to - day basis. On the road that I know well, the South Far East, there may not be the largest number of cars on a daily basis, but there is a road where accidents on a single course are highest compared to traffic weights. The road is bound to a fragment, but it has not been built up according to its current speed or speed of traffic. This is not a snow - heavy route, but it is often a soft road that can no less pose a risk to accidents. At the same time, the number of monotonous bridges that could be cut down and that would actually be removed by pipes by building up and adjusting roads in harmony with organization, both at the bottom of a disaster and in the bottom of a bull's bed. Then I'd like to come into the discussion that I think is very important, i.e. around the most populated areas, such as the West, the northeast corner, and the East, how we should set our priorities for tourists, and on the other hand, for the most scattered settlements in which a part of the population at least It is necessary to travel along narrow roads that are not even disciplined every year to their work every day. For example, whose priorities should be inadvised, against setting a fine road to individual tourist attractions, such as Fallos and Dolphraggas, for example, where no one really goes to work for his own sake, no resident? It's important to both of them. We need to find ways to reason on our priorities. In some places we can unite, and I especially want to mention a way that is like a city soil, a road that is not only a major destination but also an important road and one of the way in which people approach nearby places. This is a small area where services have been gathered and probably the only urban location that has no other way to the nearest urban area than a mountain road. You could go on for a long time and review some of the programs that are important and things that are missing, but I'm letting it stop here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, who conducted only extraordinary projects and projects, especially in the East. Maybe I'd like to ask you what. A senator more on the big lines. We'll discuss a transport plan here. Finally, I'd like to say. It has been called, and not just for winter, for years. This is a four-year transport program. Now this group has been at the hands of a team of colleagues. A member of the government, the Independence Party. Now everyone seems to agree that this group of paintings was financial. We've identified it all this terms. It is true that after a crash, there was not much construction in the road system, no sense. But my assessment is that this structure could have been started more quickly. Actually, this would have been necessary, especially because of the increased pressures of tourists on the road. It is not easy for you to wonder if this money is in and consciously headed when it's at the highest level. Minister of state and what. In addition, members of the Independence Party are increasing their preaching of private projects in the transport system, talking for private projects at airports, private projects in the road system, and discussing them as necessary because of the need for so much money in the system. Of course, there we would be talking about private business with what we can call basics, our partnerships. We have examples of such well - chosen projects, but I think that's why. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers of the Independence Party speak of the importance of personal projects far greater than we have previously seen in transport. I'd like to ask you what. In this vision, a senator sees how she feels about it, how the advance group envisions the forward construction of transportation, and whether the forward movement group would want to focus on this increased personal effort. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter opposed. I believe that a private project should be an exception, that is my basic policy. This is only true, as the senator came on, a well - defined project to build the bases, the foundation of the road system. I don't think that's an option. In terms of general funding, I can take my mind to what is expressed in the opinion of the greater part, that a much higher proportion of GDP needs to be protected for transport. The highest 2008 ratio, as noted, 2%. I don't think it's a question that we have to go up in that ratio of at least temporarily as everyone at first so we can make up for the accumulated maintenance need. For increased use of the road system, additional maintenance and services need to be added, markings, death, snowstorm, and parts of it, such as vealing dirt roads that have completely sat down on the backside. It is absolutely clear that my will is that we will increase the share of transportation. I came to film nothing on the public transportation of my speech, including Because I talked it over here in detail with the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm happy to hear this answer because I've almost felt as if this discussion were being passed on to me on the private projects of the transport system as some sort of necessity. Of course, it is well - known in this sector that when lawsuits have been financed, and this is also what we know from the health - care system, they are speaking for themselves. But not necessarily for the benefit of the public. In most cases, for a private enterprise to be profitable, someone needs to profit from it. I think this is where we're going on a dangerous path, if it's going to be a big boost for such emphasis. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is shocking to see the transport share of GDP in my sectoral environment and transport committees, such as the year. A senator mentioned here, and really amazing that we are in the same place in 2015 and 2011. It tells all of us that we are in the same place as the cost of transport as a proportion of GDP, that we are in the same place as the high cutout year 2011, as the pressures have increased as much as they can see. Hv. A senator here witnessed to the public transportation I wanted to ask about. I am very interested in integrating what we can when it comes to climate and transport. I made it a topic of talk, in my talk with a previous agent. In the past winter, I did not appreciate enough of this transport strategy to meet our objectives in climate. In the climate climate, we have not been allowed to know much about the strategy, how to achieve it. It has not been published and has not been discussed here at the council. But count 'em why. A senator that this process of transportation is the right thing for us to accept a transport plan that meets the goals we want to achieve in climate? [[The president calls.]] Then I am witnessing a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u112	A respectable president. I take to heart that it is very important to consider, in the process of transportation, how we integrate our goals in climate change. As we know, this is a considerable process, a process of transportation. This transport program, if adopted at this assembly, has been in progress since 2012. Then there may not have been the current discussion about the climate. It is very important to integrate policy on public transport. I also believe that when we organize public transportation, especially in the most scattered areas, we allow ourselves to integrate more than transporting people. We've been changing the law here and implementing directives in recent years that have made certain barriers to the integration of services, especially in the most remotest parts of the world. All of this needs to be considered in light of climate goals. You might integrate mail services, public transportation, and even a service that is being performed by someone other than this one. Then I'm talking about transporting and publishing in magazines and magazines, we have an amazingly complex and expensive system, both when we talk about the costs and costs for the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u113	A respectable president. This is a transport plan for 2015◯2018. I've been working on an Environment and Transport Committee for almost all this terms, and I'm very happy that this program is now being planned for the council and is expecting it to be approved in the coming days. The Committee has had excellent cooperation and good work arrangements, making it possible for members of the committee to get a very good overview of the transport facilities in many parts of the country. It is not particularly good, as people know well, and we see in the news from time to time that there is going to be a very serious traffic accident here. There is increased stress on the road system because visitors have increased in such a way that no one has been able to figure out how to meet them. These infrastructures, the road system, and transportation are something we must have in full intensive care in the years that after the collapse of the State's income has been in ways that it has not been possible to improve in the areas that men would have wanted to do to build up wood here. Also important is the priorities we use money between our hands in the form of taxes paid by the public, etc. This program will set out with a very strong plan to do better in the years ahead and to give, since transport is not only a security policy but also a major community, business-related, etc. What I would like to make up for today's publicity and to use the committee's opinion of the greater part of the transportation committee I have or is part of the issues that I especially love in transportation. It's the security and the location of an internal flight in Iceland. The majority of them consider it a reason to correct the importance of road safety, especially in view of the growing number of foreign tourists on the roads of the country. This increase has led to many challenges and problems that need to be addressed, as the number of tourists who experience accidents repeatedly shows. In recent years there has been no financial support, as the Agency would have chosen, but there is a significant difference in the approval of a transport program. Foreign tourists who rent cars in this country need education and protection. Sadly, in recent years there has been a relapse in the number of severe road accidents. During 2015, 16 people died in traffic accidents, and 178 were seriously injured. In recent years, nearly 200 people have died or been seriously injured in road accidents each year, and this is a major concern. The cost of traffic accidents is huge, and a new research project at the University of Reykjavík concludes that it was over 48 billion dollars. in 2015. According to a 2012 Economic Institute for Economics, it was calculated that the direct health costs due to traffic accidents were about 930 billion in 2009. K. on the current level of prices. To the extent that we are working to reduce the number of road accidents, which, of course, bring great social and psychological difficulties. The more part feels very positive that the current program is being carried out on several of the country's largest roads because it is urgent that they be completed as soon as possible, with a lot of security involved, and the main key is to separate road policies. In this regard, Kjalarnes will begin 2018, and it will continue to be carried on on by the double Rhines Way, but the first stage of that task will be carried out at a misdirected front of the Cysavísavík, which a majority of the committees suggested in the last assembly that it would be accelerated and taken into account, the round road between the Whos and Selephos will be improved, while there has been a great need to extend that road, and then the scourging of Hellisheicization will be completed in the way of Hellishe infusion so that it will become a policy of driving. With extensive planning on Central as well as the Keflavík Airport, it is particularly necessary to consider the necessary structure of the infrastructure in the vicinity of the field and to complete a double Smokejanes Way as soon as possible, which is the way of all those who need to go to the airport. This has become one of the most important areas in the country of transportation and security. It is proper to draw special attention to a campaign that resulted in a fatal accident that occurred in July of that summer called Stops here and not beyond. Their representatives came to a meeting of the environment and transport committees where they gave their message, which was that the local organisation is fighting for reforms on the Smokey Way. The long - term objective of the organization is to complete a double-way smokejanes track all the way to Leifs station, but before it does, emergency and temporary measures that include two laps at the corner of Main Street and airport roads as well as reforming the Hafways. The projects would increase the security of road users on the Rhine Road and the destruction of dangerous corners. The majority agree with these suggestions of the local organization, stop here and no further, suggesting that 200 billion will be provided by 2017. K. ... andin 2018, 100 billion will be provided. K. in order to improve the work at Hafnarway, but before this can be done, necessary planning is needed. However, due to the greater part and transportation committees of all countries, the work of callingorg can begin very quickly, and much emphasis can be placed on the fact that it will be done as soon as possible at the end of this extremely serious period of traffic. Then I want to turn my case and direct my speech to the international affairs. Sadly, though, we do not have a problem here, because of the expense of the inhabitants and visitors who come to that land enough. On the basis of the land's distribution and its importance, it is very important that flights within the country can be handsome and able to rely on it as a means of transport to a much greater extent than currently. The committee's meetings made it clear how important the international flight is for East, North and West. Most of the administrations are in the capital area, and here people have to look for public service. Thus, the only practical means for making it possible for a very large number of people in the country to get to Reykjavík at a reasonable time and even be able to fly back that day, which, of course, is very practical, making it a lot of time and money save on homework, etc. The domestic flight is therefore a means of transport, and it is also important to do so in order to provide more for tourists in the country, to distribute the pressures that result from visitors'visits to Iceland, as well as to distribute the revenues produced by the tourism industry in Iceland, that they are not confined to the same areas that make it so important that other places that are less interesting are not in the picture because it is simply impossible to get along well. Much more should be considered when connecting national and international flights so that from the Cheflavor airport, you can take the international flight directly to the destination you want, you do not have to go to Reykjavík first and then to the different parts of the country. Of course, this is possible right after arriving in Chefavík, and it must be the government's assignment to make sure that this is possible. The majority feel that different ways to strengthen domestic flights are necessary, e.g. that all international flights will be offered, but the cost of airports is real, whether to make longer contracts with Istavia than has been made or not to change the agreement so that domestic management and maintenance are laid down, not just a business as it is currently. I think it's very important that Is happening to me on a much larger scale that not only run airports but take care of the maintenance and construction of national airports. I saw the highest. In today's press, the secretary of state, the secretary of transportation, adopted the idea that this was something to be considered very carefully, to assign Istavia much more responsibility when it comes to national airports. It also comes up on the table how the money Is made from playing is new, but I would strongly recommend that the international flight be given much more attention than it is currently, thinking that there would be a beneficial change in so many ways that it would be reasonable to consider these matters into the basement. As I have traced the international flights, the airports are tailored to too narrow a transport plan. No investments are put into the latter part of the period. However, there are plans to make big investments in the coming years, and the Cheflavor airport investment plan is based on predictions of a steady increase in the number of flight passengers. In order to be reasonable, I would like to say that the situation at Keflavík Airport is extremely good. I think that's a good way to get a reception on foreign tourists, as well as, of course, the citizens of the country who have to use the airport. In spite of the huge number of passengers passing through the air station, it seems that they have managed to find ways to recover the massive current that is inside and out of the country and should be thanked. The domestic flight, however, needs to be a much better source of care. Of course, as we have seen, I myself have been a great spokesman for the future in Reykjavík, at least. until another good spot appears for an international airport or another similar location. This means that if we are going to make a handsome move on the international flight, there will be a series of projects related to the airport activities that are now being done where the possibility that the airport will be able to perform its role at the same time as he is supposed to have so important a role for many years into the future for all the people, especially when it comes to physical flights. For that reason, a handsome display must be made in Reykjavík, of course, a new airport. It claims itself that the terminal we have now is an entirely child of its time and does not measure up to the standards we make for the infrastructure in Iceland and how we want to welcome people who are going around here, whether they're domestic or foreign passengers. I emphasize two aspects of this speech, as we have learned, that traffic security will be high under my head and that the international flight will have its place in our transport activities in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to go outside for a minute. paritaprevir Elín Hirst asks her a question in view of her writing under the opinion of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee and has been a member of that committee. This was shown at the beginning of a talk. A senator considers the transport sector to be a great need for additional donations. That seems to be what stands out of all faces. Councilmen today. I thought about the job, I know what to do. A senator is interested in our employment at the council. We've been in this ideal period where no transport plans have been adopted. Now we're in a second round. and significant changes have been made. The majority of the committees suggest a significant change, and the smaller part describes itself as being their follower and further proposals tell us that the Council sees the need to re shape policy. We're making some adjustments for three years. Then, in a similar way, a long - term schedule was distributed for the course of 2015-226 from a minister who does not really agree that most of the environmental and transport authorities have entered that program. We have a new long-term plan plan set, which is in place during the discussion at the legislature meeting. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: How are we to develop a long - term strategy in the media when the above discussion seems not to enter the Ministry? How are we to ensure that the long-term programme will not maintain that this will not be in the form of either unsupervised schemes and financial contributions through budgets or budgets or that huge changes in transport planning will be carried out? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u115	Thank you. A senator for the question. I'd like to say first that what is now being done with the transport program here is that my judgment is very handsome compared to the money we've seen going to transport in recent years, which unfortunately were too small. Of course, I'm a spokesman for making plans ahead but still find it hard to see that the prospect of seeing for years is possible for every human. It comes naturally that as you look beyond it, the less you can say exactly what really exists according to the plan. I believe that what is being done here on transportation is a great improvement and is not worried that the good policy that is being followed will not be followed through the big plan as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u116	Mr. President. Then the question arises, Why are we at the head of the project to submit a long - term plan for the course in the course of 2015-226 if we know that we can't see the future anyway? For many years there has been no approved transport plan, and now we are finally getting to the point where we are going to accept a transport plan. I don't like that. I don't think it's a good thing that we're working on a budget. I think it's totally unacceptable. Then you can say that the legislatator who deals with the budget describes his point of view in the greater part, and then you wonder if it somehow doesn't need more harmony when we're trying to put down long - term plans. I think it would be tremendously impressive for all of us around the country to see that our priorities are much clearer and that we would somehow be more consistent in the activities of the Executive Director and the legislators when it comes to these joints. Of course, it is the project that actually shapes the policy set before the council and then changes. Hv. A senator here talks about it as a handsome payment, and I ask him, " Count out why. " A senator's contribution to transport as a proportion of GDP currently available in 2015 in the same proportion as in 2011, which was an acceptable year of community cuts? Counts 'em out. A senator, perhaps. that we will need to increase these contributions in the coming years? We are at a minimum in historical measure when it comes to transport donations as a proportion of GDP.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u117	The point of my presentation has been that we are going to maintain the stability of a successful government. When things are being handled as they have been in the past in this government, there will be leftovers of government funds that can be set aside for various community projects. Of course, transport is very high there. As I took it into my talk, transport is essential to the development and development of industry in the country. It is of great importance to people who have to travel from place to place, to be sure in their vehicles, whether walking, riding, or driving, that traffic safety is guaranteed. It tells itself that transportation is one of the biggest social issues we need here. I've said that if I'm going to set priorities, I'd like to see that the health matters are being done at the top of my head right now when the state funds stand in such a way that we have money to do things. However, I do not deny that transportation must follow through on that point. The most important thing to me about transportation is that before we move on to new projects, we invest in the past few years, spend vast sums of money on building for transport, before we go to new projects, and during the time of the collapse of what we have already built.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u118	V.E.G. President. Tomorrow evening, I leave the country for a lecture that was long planned, followed directly by the Council of the European Parliament as one of the three members of the General Assembly. So this is my final day here to say goodbye. That's what I do now after more than two decades at the General Assembly, but in this hall I stepped first at the beginning of May 1995. Since then, I have been standing for several hundred hours in this chair as a senator, a minister, and a member of the council. The last part is not forgotten, for on the shoulders of the council groups the fever and heavy planning of the Senate work rests on the behalf of its members, and they are virtually bound to this hall day and night while they play this vital role. At a farewell hour, I am taking the top of the tribunals of all classes and of course the President of the Generals, who stands a key position in our eyes, who wants the great Way of the Generals. Today's president, I especially thank you. A lot of things have changed for the benefit of the Council since I first stepped in here. Thus, the Parliament progressively collects the weather as a European Commission and a surveillance agency, as well as as as a lawgiver and financial authority seeking to do good. It was a pleasure to be a part of it along with other members of the Committee to develop a administrative committee and a follow-up committee into the future. How important it is that the council continue to fulfill this important committee and show its role worthy of understanding! Now that I'm away from the table, I thank the members and the staff of the team and this great and important organization, I wish to be of great benefit to them. I'm trying to get air under wings and to watch life from perspectives that don't necessarily have to be left here in this room, though it was born old. No doubt I will miss this place, and if the fault becomes unbearable, who knows I will ever see again? I'm not about to give up my political duck. Finally, the highest. Mr. President, I thank you and wish you all, both of you, who will remain at work and do other things, all good. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u119	It is clear to all of us who have worked hard. A senator, whether long - term or short - term, is here as a turning point. Hv. paritaprevir Since the first day that he entered the walls of the Assembly Hall as an elected member of the General Assembly of the Icelanders, the Ögmundur of Jónasson's son has made a great contribution to the work of the council. The President must allow himself to be a little personal this time and disappear a little from the formalities of measuring of the Presidential chair and wanting to move him personally. A senator thanks very much for the cooperation and conflict we've had here in the halls of the Generals and other parts of the U.S.A. It has to be said at the right time. paritaprevir Jónasson's grandfather was a difficult opponent, but a good friend. It is so that when we look at the record of the son of Ögmundur of Jónasson - and I don't think there's any reason to write about him about any last words in the political field, because we, as he knows, are sure that he has much unsaid in this matter, even though his words and actions will be outside the House. That doesn't change what you're doing. Of course, one individual has, among other things, put his unique position in that he has always been a very dedicated spokesman for his views and ideologies, and he has rarely turned aside from the political rhythm. Now the president wants to correct his words and say, " Never turned aside from the political swing. ' For many reasons, politics is peculiar. We know that the political cohesion of humans does not necessarily depend on the political lines. Strangely enough, in these last days, I have been becoming more aware that even though we have held a different political ideologies and wish to speak for different political ideologies, our paths have gone far away. paritaprevir Not only does Ögmundur the son of Jónasson lie in our good personal acquaintances but also in the ideal field, also in the political struggle where the strange thing has happened that the representative of the Independence Party and representative of the left movement has been very successful in many matters. I want at this moment, especially as president of Congress, thank you very much. A senator for the great work he has done as chairman of the Commission and Commission committee and can testify to that fact. A senator has been very ambitious on behalf of the committee in creating an honorable place for her during the council and the Senate, and in my opinion, he did a tremendous job. I'd like to be president of the Generals and a good old friend. A senator, as well as his family, enjoys these momentous milestones and wishes for his future well - being and his family. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u120	Mr. President. It's hardly possible to discuss transportation after this beautiful farewell moment, but I'll try anyway. We'll discuss a proposal for a resolution of a four-year transport programme for 2015-2018. First, I'd like to say what's happened to you since then. The members of my section today, although we support the improvements proposed in the Committee to a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, surely you would have wanted to see these issues develop in a very different way during the term. This has been called by means of road transport proposals and by an amplification of transport plans. Of course, I'm glad it's finally starting to happen 15 minutes in the election. However, we do well to consider how we have been doing about this work. I must show responsibility for it entirely to the highest level. A secretary of transportation or internal Affairs, where this proposal for the council was greatly delayed for a long time so that it could work on the case. I'd also like to say that it is a shock that appears in the committee of my section when the transport contributions of the gross domestic product are examined. We will see how these donations can be developed despite the increasing pressures of the transport system. I think that all of us must agree that the ratio has remained in historical minimum since collapse. We are in 2015 at the same site as in 2011 of the cut-off period when it comes to a proportion of GDP for transport so that economic growth is at the highest level. Counsellors and wrigglers. In recent years, members of the administrative body have not made donations to these important infrastructures, and beyond that, pressures are increasing, especially because of increasing tourist currents. Unfortunately, there have been serious traffic accidents in foreign tourists. may be attributed to conditions. There is also an interesting table in the Committee's list of smaller parts showing the empire's growth in the number of tourists to come here. You cannot help but point out that this group of litigators has been neglected. That is why it is even more worried when it is the highest. Minister and minister. Councilmen, especially the Independence Party, speak for increased emphasis on transport private activities. You might ask yourself, " Is this spending really an intelligent decision to force such a change in transport practices? ' At least it'll wake up Normal suspicions, especially those of the Independence Party, when it is used as a special means to establish these matters. This is a concern. I'd also like to mention in terms of a vision for the future that along with the four-year transport programme, we have a long-term plan, a proposal for the resolution of the transport programme for 2015Howl226. Now I haven't read it all over, 200 pages, but I've been over the big lines and I can't see that the emphasis, either in part or in smaller parts, is in the long-term plan. I wondered about the work process, first of course, that of course, I would not do any of the work plans or schedule a transportation plan. It hasn't been submitted here legally. It has taken a long time to discuss the transport program. Second, before finishing our short-term programme, we have a long-term schedule that is actually out of harmony with the changes to the law and to the sheep like to make in a short-term living programme. Third, there is a lack of long - term vision, where we are headed. There's also a shortage of it. As the committee's list shows, the danger is that we are going through random decisions. We have had random decisions in recent years, where there have been intervention, and we have carried out simple financial or financial decisions instead of having some overall vision of transportation. We are also in a position to work with other plans that directly influence transportation, but they are not the same. I'll give you an example of the energy exchange program. Secretary of the trade. I also mention, as an example, that we have made a commitment to meet certain goals in climate matters, but there is no plan for how we will achieve it, although it has been called from the highest level repeatedly. The environmental minister who has done so much more than a human killing how to achieve the goals we are going to reach the recession of greenhouse gases. However, for such planning to work, transport plans need to reflect the climate change management strategy, energy exchange programmes need to be reflected, etc. I make a note of this lack of long - term vision that I find serious. I think he's serious. We have to look to that, for example. how we are going to reduce the share of fossil fuels. A major issue of public transport is needed if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the capital area. You need to set out a specific bicycle plan. Transport isn't just a road project. Transport is not just a means of transportation, as they have always been thought of and served at the General Assembly. This is where we need a long-term view. I wondered if this work together does not show us right now when we are standing, for example. In the face of these major climate challenges, this category should enter the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Presidency should ensure that all programs of professional ministers are integrated in our climate goals. Before that happens, during the climate operation programme, there is some secret piece in a drawer at the highest level. The Environment Minister who has nothing to do with the transport plans or energy exchange programmes or whatever we're dealing with, it's just that there's nothing wrong with these issues. This work together shows the need to revise the administrative affairs around this group. Governments need to be coordinated, and political priorities need to be established by presenting important issues, e.g. temporarily across to the Ministry of Presidency so we can achieve harmony and perspective. The lesser part points to all of this in its opinion, perhaps not the one with the Ministry of Presidency, where I'm just talking, but the smaller part points to the importance of assessing a process of transport from climate targets. The minority also points out that there is an opportunity to increase the share of rural unions in priorities. Then we will learn how we are going to do the preparatory work. Of course, there is a part of this: There is a plan where there is not a stone on a stone. There is a great deal of work to be done. The Allied Environment and Transport Committee for Transportation, where we need to listen to such views that we need to get in sooner, of course. This project must work in harmony with the national application schedule set in place during the last terms in which we need to get our priorities in the early stages of the country. Of course, it's done by the Ministry to look for these views, but this work must be more formal, and it must be more beneficial, so it is publicly and in a clear way, in the leading of the plan rather than in consultations which are more within the Ministry's wall. I'm not going to belittle it, of course, looking for views, but it's not done in a formal, open, transparent process. I'd like to mention that the memory part puts a few projects on the program specifically. The majority of these items are included in their members with quite a number of projects listed in a summary of the changes made. Of course, it presents a number of worthwhile assignments. I agree with what the memory contributes to the need to provide already 2.5 billion in addition to the funds provided for the maintenance of transport program every year, 2017 and 2018. In addition, the smaller portion contributes a billion more to improving road safety. It quotes the reduction of single bridges but also to the growth of public transport, and some of the projects that are now being introduced into a transport program. I'm going to first mention the jobs that are out of the country, but there are also other projects that show up in the opinion of the share. It speaks of a doubleSpinjanes Way. It also speaks of the erosion of the Southland road between Whoas and Selephos, where there is considerable pressure and security. They discuss the bridge over Jackän, the Laxáry River River River in Dairland, the Brenhell, and the Way in Langanes Beach, some examples. It also discusses the roads at the Cant and Aarneshrepp. I wanted to specifically mention these two roads that are completely unacceptable. The road north of the Yearneshrep has been the limit to the fact that in August it is not even good if there are any water growths or such things, the road is shut and impossible. When the road is good, normal people think it's terrible. It's just that way. The last time I drove that road, I drive it a lot of times, I almost went into a nervous breakdown in the North World and said: "That's a big deal on the road. It was said: "He's just got the best reception right now. Of course, not many people live there, but it's still a question that we make sure people live there. It's probably been waiting a long time for a snowstorm, too. Students at the Finnbog State School, which has, for example, an e.g. heading south to Hólmavík and sharing in certain joint tasks have not been achieved because the road could not be opened out of snow. It's urgent to go into action. I also mention the teeming neck of the placebo and completing the process of reform that has long been planned there. I'd also like to mention the road to death, which is an immensely popular tourist attraction. There's been some visualization to attract even more tourists, but there's a totally unacceptable situation. Then the smaller item makes up a lot of the roadside on Forest Beach. In fact, it has exactly the same thing as in Aarneschzee. These roads are not at an acceptable time. Then we're going to talk about campaigns throughout the country. Madam President. We watch that the rural communities work more together, making more use of the building I mentioned earlier, the national branch organization, to work together on projects. We are doing so in increasing numbers by reviewing projects to the community whether it is a cause for the disabled or otherwise, that is, in the case of the elderly, and this has regularly been discussed with the local community that secondary schools should go over to the local community. This will only be done by means of a major means of transportation and, in fact, communication. It is not possible for rural society to work together on such important tasks when there is no room for room to go. What stands out when you travel through the country are these two groups of paintings. The most important thing, e.g. Young people who choose to live abroad are telecommunications, transportation, and three - phase electricity. Now it's so that we don't control where people want to live. People choose to live, that's just the world today. But if people want to live in a country, they have to be there for the infrastructure. They are not at hand, as the situation is now. It can be said that by neglecting these infrastructures, the management of the home is very selective. Of course, looking up at the government of these classes, where one of them at least has spoken extensively to support the scattered settlements, and it was to be one of his government headaches, neglecting this means of transport, which really is the basis for securing the scattered settlements. Of course, it is empty to talk about it and then to plan for transport, where contributions to transport remain in historical minimum. So they talk about this as a very handsome increase that's being proposed and completely overlooked by the financing of the past few years. I'm not going to extend this much longer but to make a comment on this lack of long - term vision and lack of integration between different policy measures, which are important for transport, e.g. for climate targets. I then, of course, comment on how low the donations are in spite of the proposed improvements and note that the emphasis is then out of harmony with the long - term schedule in which we are living. I'm concerned about the position of this group. I think it's a major influence and doesn't think so. I know it's affecting the habitat conditions outside the country. There the government groups have lost important opportunities in their years in the Council of Government. It will take time to earn up this lost opportunity. I'd like to say in the end that those classies, as I speak most of the country's population, should do better in these important structures before they say much more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and especially for the defense talk given here, based on an Aarnes Jell on the Coast. Indeed, it is a worthy cause for promoting the council. Perhaps the main thing I wanted to do was the senator according to her viewpoints and her party on the two counts of the financing of road property and on the one hand or the other. I agree that there's a reason to worry about starving the group to some kind of private development if it's as if they're looking out for transport, which has been sustained throughout this ideal period and even in the maintenance terms as well as those known by the holes in the highway system. But when does that count? A senator's opinion of a private project? Does it think it is considered to double the Havenan tunnel by its own means, or to attack the Sunway by comparable means? Or are there other tasks in the transport system that she believes would be wise to finance? The rest of the matter, we repair tourist attractions or roads directly linked to increasing tourist currents. Does she think we're supposed to look for ways to take the cost of that round, such as in the Doomshold, set in a decent way the parking lot to pay for it so that they can get there in their own private cars, but will it just pay themselves and not taxpayers?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u122	Madam President. I view the transport system as a infrastructure that should be owned by the public in the country. However, I see the very reason for taking extraordinary projects outside parentheses, e.g. when there is another way, and I will pass on the course of private action, as was done with the Halfground tunnel in my time, so I'm not as if with extreme opposition to personal action. I believe, however, that there needs to be strong reasons for such a course. I don't think a private project should be an excuse - that was what I was pointing to my speech - for government money. I'm sorry to say it was the spirit of various whales. The senators of the greater part, i.e. to back up a personal job by not having money on transportation. Nevertheless, it is so that we eventually pay it, the people of the country, whether we pay it through payment or through taxes. I think it's mainly a argument if it is intended to make a quick move; there is another way in which it is made out of parentheses in the overall system. But me, like a whisk. A senator, believes that we need to discuss it specifically each time. For a currency by the road to the Manor, where there's no other way to distribute it, I think it's strange. On the other hand, I have said, in connection with travel services, the payment of the traveling service we're always talking about, that it's most natural to be looking only for a valuable tax in a travel service. It was returned with it of the present government. Basically, it is the common funds that we should use to ensure access. I think it's perfectly normal to charge parking lots because we're taking an important space and building some quality for those who come in a certain way, all of which we should discuss. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the parking lot at the Canavra is as valuable as the parking lot in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's comments and rejoices that they do not rule out private work or car expenses at tourist locations to cover benefits. I'd like to keep asking about what's going on with the financing, and I agree with that. A senator, of course, is a fundamental system owned by the common people. The question may be, Should we stress the importance of financing it with taxes that everyone pays? Or should we look for ways to follow those nations that are now moving the currency over to those who use the system? Then, among other things, I think about climate issues as bad. A senator made it a subject, whether it's not part of raising such views in the country's transport bitch that it is for people who are going around on traffic pay, i.e. Pays to drive for certain roads. The electronic systems of all kinds make it much easier to pay simply by who goes on the road, when, and how. Remuneration can be changed after 24 hours, depending on the year's time. Actually, there is a predictable future that can directly finance the entire road system by means of services. The question is, count it. A senator's idea that this is an ideal way to use the tax money to finance the road system?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u124	The fuel expenditures for transport have not returned to this category. Of course, they are part of this marketed income. Now, let me ask you a question. Senator I believe the environmental fees are legitimate. You may be able to make use of them for specific projects. I mean, people who are contaminated. If we look to a carbon charge that's what all nations are raising, it's way too low according to the news I've been reading last day. In view of what the world's taxes are on carbon, it is too low to pay on the level of carbon damage. That is a sobering thought when we turn to those who do not have the opportunity to take advantage of public transportation as possible in the urban area. So I discussed public transportation in my talk. There we have so much access to building public transport systems for the urban population and wanting to use other methods of transportation other than private cars. It's more complicated in the more scattered areas. Hence, we also need to consider that there will be no unfair taxation in the country. Of course, we need to look at it with some kind of counterimportation or adjustment that makes this not just such a tax. Then I'm specifically talking about individuals. But we can't avoid talking about carbon pay. If Iceland is going to go through real energy exchanges and become non-carbons, then carbon tax is part of that operation plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u125	Madam President. Of course, all that has to be said about the priorities of the current legal administration is that here we discuss a proposal for a four - year transport program, which is only 2 years old because this is a two - year plan back. Actually, this is a proposal from the board of directors about how they would have wanted to conduct transportation for the last two years. I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Katrín, Jacob's Jakobsdóttir, who has experience in being a member of the government: Is there any other lawsuits in which men are allowed to behave in a way that allows them to plan again? What would it be like if we were to act in this way toward other groups of people, that there were programs for building things in the education system or in health matters that would be some wishes for what the government groups would have wanted them to have done for the last two years? It is sort of shocking that these government groups have not, although these classes have not been important enough to pay attention to it until now, that we are putting up with a transport program in 2015 and before 2016, which is almost finished. It's totally absurd to wear it this way on a table for the public. This, of course, is all that needs to be said about priorities. The government groups cannot assume that they did not have money for this. They have been repeatedly told how they could have developed funds, what expenses they should have been able to avoid attacking, and in what ways the structure could have been more successful. Isn't that it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u126	Madam President. That's the point, of course. Thank you. A senator for pointing out this in such a dramatic way that I was not now able to do in my speech. Of course, it's surrealian, and it's added to everything else that I went over, which meant that we were making plans here in an empty space where there was a lack of consultation, in which we waited indefinitely for a plan, that we are above the possibility of making a plan back in time. It's pretty much impossible that we're here in 2016 in September to agree on a strategy for 2015-2018. But it does tell us something about the process. I say, I haven't had a seat in an environment and transport committee in the season. The process is not good enough as it is. They lack more transparency in the discussion process that takes place earlier in the process so that the discussion will come up earlier. The feeling will be that this is an amendment for the election during the time of the appointment of certain projects, all of which are worthy of a task. But you get the unpleasant feeling that there is nothing too strong for you to think about. That's why I'd like to refer to a discrepancy between a long-term plan and what we're doing here. I feel like there's a lack of conversation between what's going on here and what happens then in the Ministry. I don't have the solution to that, but preferably, and what. A senator knows the process better than I do, that we re-evaluate a bit of work, how we strengthen our discussion, how we cooperate with it better with other plans. The feeling now is that we are speaking in a certain void back in time, Madam President. It says everything about the role of the Generals that we are here to discuss what was to happen last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u127	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I want to agree with that as well. A senator said regarding a bicycle plan and the claim that we need to plan to ride bicycles in this country and how we are going to build up that field. I have personally suggested that we have set the goal of building a bicycle race path and in what way we intended... A respectable president. It survives the conversation I had right here in the side room when I get up in the platform, so I might find a better way to find out what I wanted to say about bicycle plans in my speech below.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u128	Madam President. I'll be waiting for it as fast as I can. A senator will say about bicyclopaedia plans, but he would like to mention that bicycling has now changed substantially here in the urban area from being the travellers of the relatively few to being transport by much more and much longer this year. That is not to say, following it as a matter of course. A member of the committee's section notes that it is also very important to have a long - term view of riding. Here in the urban area, it has become a practical option for many more as real transportation to and from work. We see that professional life responds greatly to this trend, since it is also a public health issue. When I arrived at this issue about 12 years ago, the film of an old swamp held the prehumanity of the city's transport committee in Reykjavík for three months, when bicycles were considered an almost impossible road to travel within the city of Reykjavík. It's not a long time since it's been, 12 years, but everything has changed. Many have been involved, e.g. Transporters in the capital area But I also mention the public health program and the sports movement, which has encouraged the increased race with its excellent campaign of hosting for work. It has helped many to see how easy it really is to cycle in a job as long as circumstances exist. I agree with what. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall. I'm waiting to hear a little more about his vision of a long-term race plan, because I think it's not just transport, it's also public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u129	A respectable president. I'm quick to remind you that at the end of this election period and this longest council in the republic's history, it is at the end of its reign. It's almost seven o'clock, and we're without a work schedule on the last day of our current work programme and current work programme. There are no plans, no plans, no vision, no extra plans. A General Assembly is as incompetent as the government. It's an awkward situation when the ballparks at the end of the term, but it's in the spirit of the government, which is fortunately advanced.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u130	A respectable president. I think it's a great occasion to also come up here at this point when a meeting is about to end, and a plan is about to come to an end, just to a lesser level. So the President owns the state of the council, we're saying we're keeping something out of the picture with the council, we don't have a plan. In politics, people often talk about the need to be front and stability, to try to strengthen stability, and so forth. Here we are seeing a tragic example of how humans can completely fail this task. We don't know what the next week will be like. It is quite remarkable how much of the present part can be done to make plans for the council, and the discussion that is taking place today only shows that it is impossible to make plans over the council. The plan we're discussing right now is back in time. Perhaps the government-company is prepared to develop some projection for this council back in time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u131	A respectable president. You can't help but agree with what's happened. Councilmen. No plans other than those in force have been introduced. So this is the last meeting day of this spring council. I don't expect a council to be convened again after this meeting. It was clear the attitude of Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, president of the advance Party, during the past term that when the work program ended, the forward group refused to attend a meeting outside the work programme. I suppose the same attitude is still there, though the same president and president of that category as it was, so we'll just have to go home from Congress when meetings are over, like an hour or so, and not get together any more until a new assembly arrives at the end of the election, there will be no plans for anything else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u132	Madam President. I felt compelled to come up because I thought it was such a great idea. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son. We have solved the Al Parliament's work plan by going into the same process as the transport process and implementing the work programme. Then we could always take the position when the council is actually finished and we could agree to the work plan just backwards and not have a plan in the future. It's about as valid as the transport plan. Actually, I didn't say anything about this job earlier. I can see why. paritaprevir Steingrímsson Steingmsson has called attention to the fact that this practice seems to be a practice in a number of more fronts during the council. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall asked the exact question: Did this happen anywhere but in transportation? That question has been answered. This is customary in the General Work Programme. It may tell us everything about the situation in transportation, that it has become comparable to the General Work Programme. It doesn't bode well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u133	Madam President. With all the fun aside, it's not a good situation around here. Now that the day is over, I believe that there is only about an hour left of this meeting, there is a plan of work. Still no word from the highest level. President and yet there has been no word from government leaders of conversation with the less part of it. It's very pathetic. After the weekend I've made comments, I don't think it's allowed because there's no job plan and there's really no Senate hearing. I find it very special that they do so on the part of the committee plans to have a president consider that this is not permitted, at least. not until some conversation has taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u134	Madam President. I have given many talks from this talk on transportation, on transport plans, and in a material way all of these have been more consistent, that transportation is good, and that we should try to make as much effort to improve transport as possible. Transport is a fairly remarkable group of paintings that I accidentally got involved in about a decade ago when I became a minister of transportation in the government of 2007◯2009, just in the year when donations for transportation were highest in the history of the country, Iceland's history, that I believe 2.5% as a share of GDP. It was, if I remember, just over 32 billion who were given transportation during that record year, of course all thanks, or at least much of it, I'm joking, a respectable president, but not. Since then, the situation has remained low, as shown by a table that we in the smaller part of the transport board, according to our opinion. This has never reached those heights. During the last term of hundreds of billions of cuts, it may be understandable that this was not the case, but the performance of the majority of the segments during this terms has been, as I came to answer one question. Senator of the Board of Directors of the past, incorrigibly. Actually, that has not been the priority in this field. This class has not been viewed as important to the fact that there is a reason to give considerable amounts of money, energy, and attention to transport. That's what makes this a certain case. This is different from what I'm supposed to get used to in my dealings as a politician with the public, i.e. that they're not interested in this sort of thing, because it's a group of subjects that everybody's interested in. It's a group of paintings that are extremely important to people. It is not really in the community that people have such firm opinions, whether they are building roads, the location of airports, the different means of transportation, riding bicycles, public transportation, private car transportation, and air transport to and from the country, people are deeply interested in it. When this series of subjects is properly handled, everyone feels the importance of it. Transport additions and quickly speaking to them are something that is not particularly exciting, but there is in reality nothing as worthwhile to society as improving transport. This is how we are seen in the history of the world, where the road has been under way under way, where people have set down ports, where rivers have been bridged, there has been progress. There have been cities, communities that have developed to this day, and through the years, the center of commerce and service has been the largest area in the world today. All of this is because at some particular point, a road point in transportation, construction was set up that was crucial, the year - long ports, the ferry sites, and later the bridges. We don't have to look any further than that, for example. In order to understand the importance of such projects in a community because in the few years that have passed since its introduction, although not full, the seafront has become a complete transition and a change in the Western farm during the summertime, due to the possibilities for the development of the project. In answer to that before what. Jakobsdóttir I made an attempt to discuss my special interests as a cyclist. Unfortunately, we have failed at national level to develop a so - called bicycle race plan, which, in my opinion, is to be part of the country's transport strategy. They want us to plan how we're going to allow people to travel through the country, how we can coordinate our rural communities so that they all around the country allows their inhabitants to use their wheels as transportation, not just for the summer, but throughout the year. This is my experience, and it has been demonstrated by a philosophical method, Róbert H. Haraldsson made a two - year experiment in which he cycled every day in the capital area to and from work and found that he could ride all day but two. Agricultural communities in the countries around us have at least a share of agri-environment schemes. Two or three decades of decisions are made in order to arrange the development of rural transportation so that people can use their bike throughout the year as a transportation unit. So we see in capital cities in other parts of the North and in larger towns that have a completely different population than the one here. These are often snowy areas. There is often a great cold in winter, not as windy as in Iceland, but it cannot be said that the weather is more disturbing to use. People have simply learned that if people are equipped to do so, they will take advantage of them. It means that first, or at least at the same time as the streets are cleared, and people are enabled by the interaction of public transport and biking to use this transport, which is both economic cost to people, health care, and home to be better prepared to work and after work and is environmentally connected, is not contaminated, and is therefore uninformed to a great degree of community benefits if this is done in this way. We have also noted that using our bicycle as a transportation tool to travel through the country is increasing in interest. About two years ago, I made a pact proposal to build a travel expedition in Iceland that was approved at the council. It included the suggestion that integration would be undertaken in mapmaking and travel routes, allowing people to interact with different travelers, to use special maps, and to travel across the country by different routes, perhaps on foot, or on a bicycle, or on a horse, while using the same map base. I don't know how far that work is within the Commission or within the council, but the council sent a very important message that it wants the government, the Ministry, to work in preparation which is comparable to the work we've seen in countries such as Switzerland, Austria, and elsewhere in Europe, where people have just created a very cool system of bicycles, footpaths, known as public transportation. Travellers are made very easy, using different routes. Part of the suggestion was that Iceland would define a specific route within a country called Velo bike trails, a network race path all over Europe. Of course, that's what we're supposed to be doing rather than discussing how we can take our bikes off the country's highway system, as some may say the need to do. It is much closer to bringing up the construction of our highway system so that people are enabled to use the bike on them. That's what I wanted to say about bicycle plans. Of course, I miss the fact that there is no such vision in the government's transport program, there is really no perspective on other transportation, but, in fact, more is being seen in the rearview mirror, making plans for how men would have wanted to do things two years ago. Of course, for 2015 a transport plan should have been created and done in 2014, wouldn't it? Or don't you think it's a little strange, Mrs. President that the way things are, is that we're making a plan to travel this year at the end of 2016? It's surrealian, and it says everything that has to be said about the government's interest in this matter and this language. Then there is the other thing that I would like to make up for a talk in the latter part of my talk. It is a complete mystery to me why these government groups have held this task force to witness that the transport program has not yet been completed. This was not done in 2013,2014. However, they were moving in a transport program. It was submitted at the end of the council, if I recall correctly, was not smart or did not come up to votes in the council hall, but it did not exist. What happened then in the fall of 2014? Then you would have expected that the government, which was prepared for transport in the spring of 2014, would start out with the same transport plan, provide it and measure it at the council, and start the reporting process, and start the environment and transport committee with the plan. Did that happen? No, nothing happened. There was no plan. It was just waiting until the end of that council winter, and then the proposal came back, and nothing happened. This is how the deterioration history has been repeated until now that we are in the last seconds of this government in a discussion of complete uncertainty about the transport program and that this will depend on the possibility that the transport program, the only policy of this government, these administrations, will be adopted in the council. Is this because the government groups had to deal with extraordinary projects during the season? No, it was now a little bigger and larger task that went on with the administration groups during the last terms than that. Was the rest of it any closer? Was there a crew of people in the board? No, that was a lot more, more like 38 people. How is it that a transport strategy was not completed? How is that possible, Madam President? Were there not enough money to fit in? Were there not some ways, some changes to priorities when it came to the provision of funds that would have led to a better improvement in human life? Yes, it was repeated throughout the terms of the term, from the first days of the current government, from the first weeks of present administrations in the Assembly Hall, with a variety of arguments, by the masses of all members of the council, to show the current government parties in what ways they could do their work so that they could better look at this body of speech. In my council, there were men, e.g. Strictly an assembly of 80 billion to the so - called adjustment, an extremely unremarkable operation that was distributed in a very unremarkable way, and most important of all, for those who needed the establishment of the government, by protesting the reduction in hunting fees at the beginning of this election period, and to show that it was possible to maintain the funds needed to earn from the common resources of the population, which was not listened to any of these talks. There was no interest in properly attacking this park, on this project, in a decent way. Of course, there are a lot of positive options from a greater part of the environment and transport committee that can be said to be the best. But just before and just before the election ends, it is a challenge to view such suggestions. It's kind of an election plan. It's a new election proposal. We will see how they would be angry at the council and how wish for them to be accepted, which is a total emergency landing in this category of government. That's the last chance to save your face when people really have everything to do with this sort of thing. You can't overlook that. It is also necessary to witness that when the government groups claim to have a high ambition in these matters, they even provide ministers of the same category, independentness, transport plan, and then long - term financial programs where the sums conflict, depending on the billions of people's intentions. This suggests that the process leading to our acceptance or review of a two - year transport program was also used when men were calculated, that was not normal communication, that was not a proper job management. That is the final point of my speech, Madam President, that is what is lacking in this matter, and so tragicly, it is a proper and well - versed political management. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u135	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There are two things I really want to ask you. A senator about. First, I want to go out of the final part of his speech, where he speaks of a weak program adopted in his final meters when the commission from the current Parliament is swelling, and the greater part has to somehow sign for itself, at least to have finished it. We're fucked. A transport committee, both me and the other. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, with our changes and minorities, has approached the task objective objectively, like all the other projects we have accomplished on the committee, and has marked the less part's work. We've said we're going to support the change in the greater part, but we've provided a few additional adjustments. They have been centered on several things, but they are proud to make more money for maintenance. We want to see an increase of 1.5 billion each year in 2017 and 2018, and 400 million each year in public transportation and other changes. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me on the opinion that it will strengthen the state of the plan into a new terms, into 2017 and 2018, if more part would accept the change in the memory of the part. If so, we would certainly be agreeing on a common vision, despite the length of time that we have had to wait. The other question I'd like to ask. A senator is also concerned with the political situation. I'm asking if he has any theories on how we're going to be here so late this term to discuss a future transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u136	Madam President. Thanks for the inquiry. It is interesting to consider this in view of the information we received from the representatives of the Road Building on Environment and Transport Committee meetings, i.e. 8 billion to 9 billion would be required. Every year in maintenance of roads alone, but 11 billion would be needed to improve the state of the road and the security associated with the necessary maintenance. In effect, the people of Vega, who are most familiar with this area, are saying: It takes a lot more than 8 to 9 billion a year for maintenance. We need 11 billion people so that we can fix what needs to be fixed, stick to, and improve security. In view of this information, what does the majority of the members of the committee do? Yes, he proposes that 8 billion be put in place of 7. You wonder, when you see a large interaction between the Vega and the Ministry of State in preparing a transport program before it comes here at the council: What sort of conversation took place between the Ministry's Subcommittee, which is special knowledge and knowledge in this field, which led to the Ministry to determine that it will maintain 7 billion, which is then tried to correct more part of the committee by moving it up to 8 billion? In our memory, we suggest that we go up to 9.5 billion, which I think is just right, and in fact, it would have to go further.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u137	President. I agree with what. A senator still asks whether it would be necessary to strengthen the plan if the members of the greater part were with us in supporting these adjustments to the end. Then I'd like to ask. A senator for his tour of bicycle plans. I'd like to approach it this way: I've thought about it when we're stressing it, and maybe mostly in urban areas, building up for free time riding in the interest of a bicycle ride, i.e. that people can cycle on weekends and enjoy themselves, and that's like a second approach to the importance of a bicycle being a real option and a means of transportation. This is important, based on the way we use our means of transportation. So I want to ask you why. A candidate in charge of what is most important to him to approach it so that riding a bicycle is a real option here in the capital area. We've been doing a lot of work, and when I say to them, I'm talking about us and the neighbors in this business. However, it is still that in the case of construction, construction, or any of these projects, it is seldom expected that people who ride will need to get around. We all know who are trying to ride a bicycle. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator of an idea I've got, and it's coming out of the Velo wheel line, and it's the cheeky one to make Hölf's way that way. Whale ride is almost without cars along the Havenavva tunnel, and it is almost flat in its most pleasant way, a very comfortable bike route, and a comfortable roll. I'm asking if there's no parish right by the town door that we're not using for bicycle tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u138	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator about the Hill Hill. In addition, there is a very beautiful way to go. When it comes to the performance or proposal of a greater proportion of the committee, to raise to 8 billion, it would certainly be a great improvement if the suggestions were made here. It is in complete agreement with the information that we received from the Road Building to the environment and transport committees in this manner. There is the wrong political priorities, for the Ministry of Internal Affairs is totally ignoring what the Roadmaker says. Clearly, the view that this is not necessary or that it is negative to collect taxes in order to do this is an effort to avoid any official activity at hand. I'm in this way in terms of projects, I'm not going to say private projects, but projects that would be cooperation between private and public, that I've been very much in favor of them. You often hear the voices of the Independence Department that they want to do more. It's just talking. Nothing's going to happen. Neither government nor personal contributions are improving transport. I've been in favor because I feel it is a key to improving traffic security and trying to finance it. Then it can be done by means of roads or in some way that leads eventually to the possession of public transport. [[The president calls.]] The important thing is that things are done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-29-160.u139	A respectable president. I met my friend at lunch every day, and I asked him what he's doing these days, but he's done a lot of things over the years. Then he told me that he and his friends were doing a documentary on the road system in Iceland. This young man I've known for a long time, and I have not known his interest in the road system, was saying to make a documentary about the road system. He told me that this documentary kind of did itself. Everyone he talked to would have so much opinions on the road, on transportation, that all he needed was to start the camera and let people talk. This would be especially interesting now because the situation would be so bad over the whole country and so intense that there would be anger in the area where it would come and people would be detracting on this matter. This, of course, we know who's in politics. We know that these are one of the warmest topics found in many parts of the country, not just in the country, but in the capital area. We know that this is a major subject of urban government and regional authorities in the capital area and everywhere, making it possible for people to get comfortable between places and safely, to see that transport is environmentally friendly, and to meet new demand for bicycle riding, to create opportunities for new energy sources, and to face increased pressures on the increase in the number of tourists. It's very prominent in the South. It comes from every other person in the South that it's just a matter of time before some big accident occurs because the road system is about to explode. It's right in front of us. That's why there's something so sad about standing here right now and discussing a transport plan. Yes, indeed, as we have seen, a good change has been made, but all the developments in the case and the management of these cases during the season are subject to research. These categories, two of the oldest political parties now, the forwarding party and the Independence Party, why have they at the term so completely neglected investing in the interiors of society? They've failed. I would have thought that these groups were closely associated with people in many parts of the country. It's just a mystery, wherever you look. To deliver a transport plan now in a second round. During the council, and it's not fully ahead. It's two years back. It's just ajoke, it's some kind of workaholic. We're being played here. We're discussing a plan back in time. You don't know what to say. I haven't seen one of these before. There are these groups that talk a lot about the need to maintain scattered areas, and all of it, and stability throughout the country, which break into the Parliament by means of a two - year transport program. [[Up front.]] It's some kind of transport program that you have to read, I don't know what it's called, it's probably some kind of day off, would have, would have liked to have been this way if they had made a travel plan earlier. It's just funny, that's all. What is that? Here is an underlying theme that has been most prominent during the terms. I can see it somehow this way: There was a crash, so I'll say the key in this speech that I think should be regularly indicated: there was a crash. The reaction to the collapse was, in my opinion, two types of anger understandable, extreme anger, and severe trauma. However, people in society began making plans in the college community, unions, and so - called government. Every country's settlements were covered and a plan was made. In the short future, a newly formed category was able to develop an investment plan based on reports that had been made on the main application system of Icelanders. It was the beginning of a discussion that hopefully one day ends on a new constitution. There were ambitious plans to reorganize the health system and how to build a new hospital for the future location of the airport. Everywhere you looked, this plan was being worked out, which was wise. This happened in the community, and it was obvious that the best we could do was to look ahead, see how we could step up from this, based on our own strengths, based on national strengths, asked e.g. where would be the most necessary road transport? In an investment plan, there was a very large section on necessary investments on road projects outside some kind of transport plan to make a contribution. I also mention the construction of the green economy, the 50 - joint suggestions on how to build it up. It's so remarkable that the first thing the government does, there's a completely red thread with her and a completely wild act and must be based on some ideologies, must be based on some political bitch, that it was canceled. All of this canceled. It seems somehow that this is not necessary, something that should not be done. Since then, we've seen that the construction of this new hospital is in chaos, that people don't really know, that they're talking out loud, that's what they're doing. There's a plan for the program. It's in a swamp film. The investment plan is nothing, yet it's the highest. Secretary of finance has begun to talk about it now that perhaps it is wise to put money on the green economy and creative articles and other things, completely new. Men are fighting again at Reykjavík Airfield. The European Union is once again fighting, but it was one process that man was involved in a democratic strategy and was trying to solve it. It's in the air. Also, if we view this as some kind of workaholic, it is a low point, or a climax, to provide a road program that is two years back in time. This is amazing. This is a will not to make plans, not to look ahead. One of the biggest challenges of this government has been to look back in time. Her biggest task is correction, which was about correcting an inflation shot several years earlier and doing so in a very unjust way, throwing away money that could have been built up in the future because it is what a politician is supposed to be about. It may sound like a cliché for many, but politics is supposed to be about building for the future. The government has progressively taken the money and put it into some past corrections. It's like this. This is the difference between the politics. [[Up front.]] Yes, one plan, however, that had to do practical projects came from the time it was then at the highest level. Prime Minister to build a building at the General House in the spirit drawings of the 16th - century Guðjón of God Samúelsson. So to protect old harbor parks at high cost. You don't really know what to say about this. People must have to think about the next election whether they want to have long - term thoughts, whether they really want to put something on paper about where we're going to go, how we're going to build up the road system, and so forth. Or if it just wants it this way, somehow out of his back pocket from day to day. We are now in an unproved assembly. It's probably because it's done with the will. That's the way they like it. It can be very comfortable for such an old form of power politics, which these classes represent and probably do nothing else, an independent party and a forward party, these days, these years. In that case, it may be quite convenient to be completely confused. In the roads, it was the custom in the old days that men were driving and mopping with this in the back rooms. They liked it if they damaged a bridge somewhere or damaged one of the roads at home in the region. Of course, in that kind of political bitch, there was nothing good to have a plan, to be tied up to some piece of paper, at least It's better to do it again, to play the game, to play with it. To get out of this kind of political bitch, the policy strategy was implemented. If I recall correctly, I think it was the time of a successful travel minister who I knew very well, the son of Steingrímur Hermannsson, 1980-1983. It was then decided to plan for transportation, and it seemed quite new. In the context of things, you can see how it was a new kind of political bitch, trying to get rid of this uncertainty situation, these insurgents, that you could check in the shelter of some transparency, put it down on paper. In other words, it was government reform. As I've traced, although Steingrímur was a candidate, it seems that today's applicant party doesn't understand, that the Independence Party does not understand, if ever, how important it is to tell a society where we're going. I say there was a crash here. It was evident in the aftereffects of the crash that all of society's key components had to be cut down to the interior, to the road, to the health system. It was tried to set priorities for the best of our ability, but up to 200 billion totals of government funds called for very painful action. Here came Persson Göran, a very interesting lecture at university immediately after the collapse, saying: Yes, these actions are to be performed quickly and well, but the key is to say at the same time where we're going, when we're going, where we go. The road system is naturally a complete factor in this. I think it's one of the biggest disappointments I think in the past few years in politics, where classes based on this old foundation that did not change this role, trying to take the planks made in those rosy years, and trying to finish them because they were an important part of recovery after the collapse. It was important to say at that point: Yes, it's been cut down to the road, but now we're giving in because the coin's coming in, and now it's about to start. It was predictable that the rise would begin. Now we can start building the medical system, we can do this now because the money is coming and we owe it to the people. But the government that accepted it did not understand its purpose. She did not realize that the government that was after a crash was natural just a cognition, had to be fixed, tried to get everything right, turn around a huge angle, and try to do it so that it would not be too much damage, and she certainly did it to this government, but it was successful and we benefit from it, but the government that came to think that it should do the same. She thought it was her job to deal with the aftereffects of the crash and spend all the money in correcting the families who had already been corrected, were already under an acceptable goal. It was a misunderstanding of this government. It would have been necessary for someone to tell her that the role of the government that took over, those who have sat, was primarily building wood. It is a heartbreaking testimony to the lack of understanding in the government's role that it is now using a two - year - long transport program that has no significance, has no special significance. There is nothing to tell you that transport is meant to be admissible. The anxieties of all these people throughout the country of safety and bad roads have not been reached. Some roads in Iceland are amazing. I can't see that no other nation would accept this. So everyone sees this increase in the number of tourists, but people are not told in a transport program that it will get better. In fact, the road model's suggestion of the necessary donations for maintenance is not yet being made. What is it? This means that we are building up the need for maintenance, which is nothing more than debt. If a long - term schedule should be based on our not laying enough for maintenance, we need to write down some road. If we're not going to put money, we're going to have to say in the plan, which I'd say should be a real 12-year plan, whatever road we're going to stop using. It is so remarkable that I am absolutely aware that the government does not realize the need for a long-term plan; it obviously does not worry about it, it is that in a national financial programme there is not expected to increase donations to the road. In fact, the government budget says that public investments in infrastructure are not going to be obtained. It's amazing being in politics and seeing a sentence like that. This is true in human language: society is going to get worse. If this is how people want to keep this plan, if they're not going to put up with it and not invest it as it is, then, of course, they have to say in a long-term plan what to quit, which way we're going to stop using, whatever schools we're going to stop using, and so on. It may well be that people do not want to bring such plans into the council. At any rate, tops. President, this ambitious transport program is a source of greater importance, it's a manifestation that we have a government that has completely misunderstood its role. I predict that it will be remembered for its failure at a very critical time in this nation's history to build up wood exactly when it needed it.
