ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u1	The President has received a letter dated on August 31, 2016, from the Council of the Convention on Human Changes in the Committees of the Parliament, as per Article 16. Congress. It is requested that Einar Daðason take place, Sigurjónsson Siglejongon, serving as his assistant to the European Parliament of the European Security and Cooperation Agency. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u2	It will be a 30-hour break at this meeting after an unprepared period of inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u3	There are: health ministers, industrial and commercial ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, and local ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u4	President. V.E.G. Ministers and ministers. Directors have agreed to the financial program. Governments until the next five years. It assumes that by the end of the period, the building of the land hospital's treatment center will begin and that's good. However, there is no plan for meeting the cry and expectations of the people in the country for the restoration of the health system. There are more than I can see, and it's enough to examine the numbers in the schedule, e.g. to hospital service, as I have mentioned before, at the highest level, this part of the program. Secretary of health. I believe that the amount of money in the State budget designed for health care shows a recession rather than an increase in the number of patients, long waiting lists for services, and the accumulated needs for maintenance and equipment, along with secure access to health care, irrespective of the economy or where people live in the country. For example, there is no overall schedule for the development of nursing homes. The minister of health has not added much to the language that had not been determined during the last terms, although heaven and sea are in between the state's financial status now and then. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister whether he believes that the national budget will be replaced for the next five years to answer the call of the people in the country after the restoration of the medical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u5	A respectable president. There's still a why. A member of a similar area in his discussion of financial contributions for health care in the country and is still in the area of speaking down, in effect, the growing strength of the health sector being being given in the financial program and has actually been made in each year's budget of at least one year now. two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u6	Isn't that just...?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u7	Hv. paritaprevir Of course, Kristján Möller was responsible for these factors too during the last terms, such as the season. The leader. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller shall ask only these questions when appropriate instead of wagging from the hall. [[Up front.]] When it is asked whether the financial strategy is appropriate to address the public's appeal for increased money to health, I say yes, but of course, as I have repeatedly done, in many areas I can do better. We do not respond to all the needs, nor do we want to be fully involved in the financial agenda in this regard, rather than in many others. When you say here and indicate that the person here adds little to previous plans for the building of aging plants, I ask. A senator: What is that, knowing how it went to completion, and implementing the good plans that were involved during the last term? Is the person here responsible for the failure of the planned projects and actually not yet in place?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u8	Mr. President. I understand the highest. A minister so that he is quite pleased with this program of health care until the next five years, he believes that it is there that health care is being improved in the country, although he is not sure that all needs are being met or called together. It's good to get this out of the way because all the people, the media, the interested people, the figures in the budget and their explanations. V.E.G. At the same time, a minister is saying that the budget for hospital service, which is not considered to be an increase of 1.7% per year, not taking into account the cumulative needs of maintenance, and not taking into account the necessary equipment, is sufficient, the plan is only good, and will not lead to improved hospital services. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u9	A respectable president. I'll repeat what I said. I think there is a great need for more money on health issues than the plan assumes, full need for it, and will not be in any trouble involving spending it. But I also don't want to overlook what is well done. It is indistinguishable that there is a substantial increase in money available to health professionals in these programmes. It's just that way. You may not be expected to do so. A senator understands that this is the case. I've been through this with the Fundament Committee, I've put the cards on the tables there, which are cross-bordered. A senator accepts the information in some objective way. I can't be responsible, even if the Conspiracy chooses to take this position in that category. She shall and must be responsible for it herself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u10	Mr. President. V.E.G. A health minister is popular today, since health care is high in the minds of the people of the land. [[For example: Well?]] I'm in a bit of a trail like what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir. It is known that in springtime, representatives of all classes took the largest collection of signatures in Iceland, where 86,761 Iceland wrote under a challenge to the government that contributes to a health crisis that would increase the proportion of GDP to 11%. There was a lot of discussion about that number, whether it was the right reference number. Signed by 86,761 Iceland. V.E.G. A health minister has rightly said that there was an increase in donations. That's right. But I'd like to ask: When we discuss these 11%, we mean total expenses, if we just pay the public expenses of land production, they may be more than 9% of GDP. All the representatives of this gathering took it, received it, and said that they wanted to do everything. But since then, a five - year national budget has been adopted, which centers on how these two categories, independent party, and forward group want to split the national cake into the next five years. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What makes the financial programme, since it is not quite simple to read out of the program, assuming that the proportion of health issues of GDP will be at the end of the programme in 2021? What will be the rate of health care from GDP? Is that not an important figure for political discussions when over 86 thousand Icelanders have signed a challenge in the largest collection of signatures in history that this is the proportion to health? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u11	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. The starter that health matters are the group of paintings that are being discussed in the process of elections. That's a lot of the good things I think. I'm celebrating that discussion. I also demand that this discussion be objective and based on the right basis. I like it. A senator, here foreboding, approaches it in this way. It is quite clear that people often have a problem with their soul when, as during their last term, 27 billion are taken out of the land hospital business. Naturally, it stirs up wounds. Naturally, they want to beat back quickly. [[Up front.]] Similarly, it affects health care in other parts of the system. The question is from a room why it hasn't been done. There are a number of people who are interested in making inquiries, and I direct them to the dignity and reputation of others. Councilmen putting themselves on the rosary rather than constantly resorting to you when you are trying to give a reply. Foreman. There is a question about the collection and how financial contributions are involved. She's gonna be fine with her. She's gonna be fine with me. Not fully. We are considerably different from what has been set out and are controversial, whether 11% of national production should be joined by this group. It has been in the question that if we are going to make it, it will cost tens of billions of dollars. I'm not at the point where it's necessarily the most desirable reference. I am in a place where funding for the seminary should take into account the responsibilities we can take care of and care of in our health care. I will again repeat in my discussion of health care, with all due respect for the Land Hospital ◯ College Hospital, that there is more to medical care in this country than to be doing good work on Fos Soil and Ring Road. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u12	Mr. President. V.E.G. Ministers are saying the plan will not meet this proportion. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: The plan expects 3% interest, so the real increase to health, if it is to achieve a certain proportion of land production, must be very high, so to speak. Minister if he can tell us what this ratio is and if he is ready later, if not available, to bring it along, because these are important numbers that need to be established. On the other hand, I'd like to say, because the highest. The minister referred to the last term and the hospital, let's not forget the numbers we all know, and that the National Hospital's death demand has been up to date since the turn of the century, since the year 2000. It's not fair for the highest. A minister of mine knows to mention only the last term when everyone knows that the economy in Iceland collapsed, although some politicians seem to want to forget it sometimes during discussions. It was an extremely difficult time for society all. [[The president calls.]] We have to look at evolution just like that. During the turn of the century, it is part of the more difficult time for the health - care system to cope with the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u13	A respectable president. So when the budget was submitted, I presented all the contributions to different health issues. I'll bring that presentation to you. Foreman. I'm sorry, but I don't have all of this in my head or in a quick room, and I'll be happy to share their information. They're all there. There is a significant increase in many aspects of health care in the current program, but we can always deal with whether this is enough here or enough there. For example, when we discuss the recession of health care and the land hospital specifically mentioned them, you can certainly consider other areas of health care. What I'm pointing out is that we agree reasonably that this group needs more attention. We must stick to it, and we must be united in making a contribution to it. I remember, for example. budgets available here for last year's budget, for the 2016 budget. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator is merely going into his own mind to consider the suggestions there presented, both in government and in government, and to ask himself, " Am I compatible with today's demands? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u14	Mr. President. As everyone knows, Icelandic farmers produce rich goods, high-class food that meets all comparisons with what happens best abroad, especially the noted Icelandic lamb. How sad it is, then, to read news in the media that slaughterers have now decided to lower the price of farming on lamb and that supply of lamb has been gathered in the freezers of slaughterhouses. I'd like to discuss this situation at the highest level. Agricultural minister. Why does this happen? What would the minister want to do to cope with this situation? Farmers have understandablely objected to this, and this is hard to understand. It's kinder, and people grill, tourists have never been more popular, and meat soup has rarely been more popular. World market prices on lamb have gone up, and prospects are good. How can this be? Why do sheep farmers need to carry a fine portion from the table? Large markets have crashed, and Russia was the main target. Then I'd like to ask, doesn't it have to go into creating bigger and more markets for Icelandic lamb and other agricultural products? Isn't that where the knife is in the cow? Icelandic market is too small. Wouldn't it be the best thing that could happen to Icelandic farmers that we would pay for their access to larger markets with free trade? Does the minister agree? What does he think is the most reasonable course in this regard? Meat mountains and low prices show in my mind that the OSH movement in Icelandic agriculture not only affects consumers but also strongly on farmers who are now trapped in the freezing flag. Why not open up and expand the market, find new land? Should we constantly be afraid of the outside world when it comes to agriculture? I don't think so. I would like to direct the minister to a single supermarket at the entrance that is the European Union. Is it not time for some Icelandic farmers to run their customs with their good products instead of in the freezer? Is it not clear that the EU will bring benefits to the farmers and the country, not just free markets, but access to the Community's building funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this thorough inquiry. I'm going to answer this with the EU first. Now everyone sees what kind of situation is there, so we're quick to settle it all. However, lamb is exported to Europe. These markets, like others, have been quite difficult lately. There's a few things that play in there. The demand is simply another. In faraway countries where we may be exporting extra products, the demand has also been reduced, as well as the successful development of exporters. Here, however, you can wonder. A senator mentioned, it's that little contest that's on the market. Simply put, farm prices need to be raised at home. We've got some very high quality, like what we're looking at. paritaprevir correctly mentioned. Let's just take the lamb, the price it's sold on. A family of four, five can buy it for food at the price of one pizza. It's funny when it comes to the price of lamb. What can you do about this? Today it is so that those who want to move out meat can, of course, do so. We have a net of free trade agreements that open up for that kind of business. Of course, the cost and all the resulting things are to be paid for. Can we expand our export to the U.S. market? We sold 200 tons or more in the Whole Foods camp, for example. No doubt there is some way to increase it. Can we come to support there? We've got an Iceland lab and such parties to help with that kind of thing. We have the marketing program Iceland Naturally including. to sell lamb, so there are lots of pipes. However, it is proper to mention here that Iceland's Food Land is a project that hopefully starts in the fall, which is designed to increase knowledge, innovation, presentation, and get both Icelanders and tourists to study the wonderful products produced in Iceland. It reminds me of 80 million people you'll be able to put in this one this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I naturally knew that it was against the EU, that's obvious, but I don't understand why Icelandic farmers are not allowed to have tax-free and toll-free access to the markets of the EU and benefit from it. I think it would be the best thing that could happen to farmers. I also know that farmers are very interested in that. I know the Minister also knows they're interested in it, because they've been trying to get into this market. It has also been observed that in the last 30 years, lamb consumption per person in Iceland has been reduced by 50 pounds [40 kg] to 20. If you look at it, the consumption at the end of the contract contract, which may now be ten pounds [15 kg] per person, will still be producing the same amount of meat. It must be a matter of real life for Icelandic agriculture to find a new market. There I consider the EU or the European Union the biggest and best market. We can share that. Is this being examined in the Ministry, considering that there are manufacturing-promising domestic agreements that are about to be approved and we're about to produce the same amount we've always done, but the consumption is reduced within the country? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u17	A respectable president. That is, in my opinion, absolutely an opportunity for eviction in Icelandic, Icelandic lamb meat. It is true that in the contracts we had yesterday and the day before, the price of these products is expected to rise, that is, we are trying to help that happen. For that, e.g. the campaign of Food Land of Iceland, to increase the presentation and demand. It is also important to mention that new markets too are important. As everybody knows here, we have a recent vacation contract with China. It's not yet possible to move lamb out there under the contract, of course, men can move out meat and pay for it tolls and all that, but we're now trying to get our clients, Chinese, to come here and take out the production of the lamb so that it opens up to that enormous market. Then one large market is added to the group we already have today and is able to export goods to free customs. We must also stand together for talking up the agriculture, talking Icelandic lamb where we want to sell it more expensive than it's sold today. This is one of the basic requirements for farmers to get more for their return, i.e. that both those who move out, and those who sell in the country, will sell the product at a better price. There's a few in the Icelandic grocery store. I'm going to tell you that it's mainly the store that's running a farm in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The secretary to congratulate you on the fact that this recent report is developing a policy to reduce the harmful effects and side effects of substance abuse, etc. I wanted to ask the highest. Details of what the future will be like, i.e. each of the next steps will be taken. Now, with these suggestions, they go on a shorter way than many would like, including the one listed here, of course, the big news is that there's a pretty large group here that's agreed to take rather the step to minimize and from the emphasis that's been more prominent over the years, which has been emphasised on law enforcement and such. You see, there are various suggestions that include going in a different direction in a number of lawsuits, since drug abuse is involved in several lawsuits. Of course, the objective of this report is by the arrangement of interpretation and the suggestions itself to direct the group into the medical field. This includes the need for attention to the kinds of drugs involved in other cases, such as. general penalties. One suggestion is that unless prison punishment is legal in custody of consumption doses, one is that there is no criminal criminal record, the third is that only a measurement of drug - driving blood values is measured, and traffic laws are involved. I wondered what the next step will be based on the fact that there are changes involved in the ministry, in terms of more people than only health authorities. It is also important to see if any work is already started or at the highest level. A minister can imagine when to start such a thing if it is not already begun.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's inquiry, accepting the congratulations, and thank you very much. A senator also for his job. I suppose we'll be having discussions about this report soon at the council. And because there's a question here. The senator will be the next step, they are in my mind that I would like to put this document and put it out of order with the council and receive the discussion, hear the opinion of the council on the report, on the job and on the current recommendations. They are of many ways, 12 of all, and it is quite clear that there is a compromise between different viewpoints in this category. The fundamental issue of that subject in my mind is what I feel is reflected in the report, i.e. that we are getting closer to our health - related assignment rather than to some criminal activity when dealing with the consequences of the drug abuse. That is why I have loved it when I have read the report to see the emphasis that has to do with demeaning measures on these topics. You're right next door. A senator saying this involves more departments. I have already turned the report to the Minister of the Interior and had a discussion about their role in these matters. But what I expect will happen next after the discussion is that we will review the report, the suggestions, the discussions, take care of it, and try to implement some of the projects, suggestions that are set down there, many of the best cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I was wondering how we can predict the time line in this. Prominently, Proposition is being made on the subject of substance abuse, which in short is the continuing of the work. Had been a member of the staff myself, I know like everyone there was that it was a case that developed over time. Like another one. a member of the group said we're not building an elf, it's not something that's at some point ready, it's an ongoing task. That's why I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister sees that it is possible to prepare a matter first, such as a bill, or a conclusion, that would then be discussed at the council or that the discussion would be the first of the suggestions and that it would be a ground for consultation that would make up this matter. Any idea of the highest. A minister in those matters would love to hear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u21	A respectable president. I can see that the suggestions there are for different jobs. The first assignment that came to mind when I read it was that we needed to come to a speaking point. It is, in fact, relatively simple, i.e. To create it and simply get it to work. I see this happening soon after my discussion because in my mind, these are the first steps we're taking and there's no reason to stop, we're supposed to keep doing this work. If so, it is good to establish a meeting point on the basis suggested by the news editors. He can then prepare an assembly case or press after the ministry is given the work that will be entrusted to them in whatever area. In the same way, I also see the urgent need to support myself, making it necessary for us to be more supportive and to support more fully the destructive work that is being carried out, e.g. Mrs. Ragnhell, and that's what I've been asking my ministry to consider and prepare. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u22	Mr. President. I wish to direct a query to the highest level. Industrial Minister on electrical issues. So that we are opening up new opportunities for electricity production in the West, an energy option where there is an indiscretion and which has been prepared for a long time of intensive energy. Now, the situation is that we need to move on in order to prepare the next steps and to start there. The reason I'm coming up here is most important because i'm asking from the odd eye of the yearnesepps, who has received this information as if it assesses that there's something going on in order to continue the issues that are now important to get a clear picture on, which is a building in the new corner of Landsnet's new corner of Isafjörgment to get them energy. This point is a prerequisite for this project and has been discussed for a long time in preparation. However, the image has now reached that there are far more energy options and therefore not only the port point for this single activation but also a much larger number of activated and more energy productions available there. This may be a whole new picture and an unexpected situation that this part of the country, for so long, has had to live in a recession and a defense struggle. So I think it's very important, and it's the sincere interest of all the senators in following it firmly after we now get a clear picture of where that case is. That's why I'm asking for the highest. A industrial minister will come here to answer the location of the task. Where is the rule to get in the way? What will a minister do to clear it up?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, also thanking the moose that the senator, along with other members of the council in this district, has shown the case, which I completely agree with the senator as to the greatest national agreement. This is a water supply waiting to be used. On the basis of national and national benefits, it is of utmost importance that it become a reality. Where it is, there's no need for a legal adjustment, I've repeatedly promoted it. There's nothing in the rule that blocks. But there is a material treatment for the Power Institute and Landsnet. However, we in the Ministry have been following this closely and have been in good cooperation with both the Power Institute and the Landsnet. The country's network is laying the top end of a so-called online network that pays for this rule of action all together and has requested to the Ministry that a Regulation be set up to strengthen the foundation of this network. It doesn't stand on us, and we have that rule in final power, and I hope I can put it right after a weekend. Then there's nothing in the rule that'll stop this from happening. I hope to say it to what. A senator's decision to be made this month. It's the first day of the month of September. I hope we can get the case together that the four activations, this is not just one of the activations mentioned earlier, that the four activations can connect to this point that makes this national economic and so no comment can be made to form from the EFTA Institute of Observation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u24	Mr. President. Thank you so much for making a very clear answer. Industrial Ministers and would like to confirm that the image we see here today, not just one activation, but more of the activations, the Eastern activations, and other activations, can produce considerable amounts of electricity, which are not least for the quarter to improve the delivery safety of electricity and energy security, which can provide the basis for other occupations we know in the range of enormous importance for the quarter and the country as well as that of the year. Minister retorts. I ask them again and draw them forward at the end of my inquiry that it is so, and the minister can hopefully confirm it, that in September of the month she will issue the Regulation that she specified and will support the online language that she spoke in her speech, so that there is no way that the decision of a building point in Isafjörður will then be made known.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u25	A respectable president. It will truly be in September of the month, and I hope it will be prepared immediately next week so that nothing that calls for the arrival of the Council or the Ministry for further rules that will prevent the decision to determine the link point will be made hopefully this month. That's what we're working on, and I know that all stakeholders in both the energy sector and especially the locals do. I could see the inquiry. A senator referred to me as an odd ostensibly on Ásakfjörður Arnesf - I am in my district, a respectable president, I ask for pardon - and I understand concern, I understand the anxiousness. [[Forecast: A year's Snogging.]] You're right. A senator said that when this becomes reality, let's just speak in a certain way, there will be tremendous opportunities for tourism and other structure in an area that has called for such structure for many years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u26	A respectable president. We'll vote for new supplies. We vote for significant changes in farm environments and of how we will trust the interests of consumers in the long term, continue to build a strong, strong agriculture that produces wholesome products to consumers at reasonable prices, we hope. It is a pleasure to anticipate the end of the long process of this contract. I believe the employment committee has made positive changes in the agreements involved. I'm so glad we're seeing the end of this at the Council and we can see the future at the same time. While there is one discussion left over at the council, I believe that there is a reason to thank for what has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u27	A respectable president. I think that after the much work that has been done on the committee, and I thank the professional committee members for our good cooperation in this case, we are taking some of the largest steps for decades to renew our agricultural activities, but as we know, the system we have in many respects is faulty. Thus, we make sure that there will be a review period with the participation of all stakeholders where they will come to the table and they will be selected again after three years, both at council and among farmers. We've listened to the Contestant Commission and put in some suggestions, such as the Contestant Commission suggested, which, in fact, ensures that, contributes to the lower concentrations of the raw materials and to the price-fixing decision. I hope that our experience will show that in the future there will be no market agreements. Rather, there will be a living ground for consultation in the community where we will travel long-term in order to benefit both farmers and consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u28	Mr. President. It has stressed that the agricultural system will be modified and developed more efficient areas of building, increasing farmers' freedom, making innovation easier, promoting innovation, economic production, and improving consumer interests, and the requirement for sound land use, animal protection, sustainable and environmental protection will be criteria for public support. The market agreement is out of harmony with these priorities, and we do not support it, but in order to emphasize the competitiveness, we have presented adjustments in these topics, and these adjustments give our emphasis on competitive business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u29	Mr. President. Icelandic agriculture is the value of the nation and is of utmost importance to all of us. I can see a future in which Icelandic agriculture meets the highest environmental standards, is actually a more successful participation in Iceland reaching its climate targets where management is sustainable and we work according to the land use framework. I can see a vision of a future in which the quality of world class is in. That's what we all have the opportunity to do. And this is in harmony with the vision of the future that I have heard many farmers in many parts of the country speak for and want to work accordingly. Therefore, it is a sin that has not been further consulted in the community in all of this market agreement, since I believe we have a great opportunity to be very effective in this area here and abroad. I call for it and I hope we're on that way, because that perspective I've heard in many places that we're getting more of a deal on domestic agriculture because it's important. But I don't feel that it's done with these livestock contracts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u30	A respectable president. A bright future offers a paradox on this contract. The reason we believe is that this work has been done without consultation with very important parties to the agriculture, i.e. consumers, to the environment set, and to the issue of competition. Despite a number of good words in the development of the Commission and in the opinion of the greater part of the committee, we do not feel that these changes are fixed. They expect a possible change after the agreed agreement. We're against it, and we don't think there's a reason to agree to a faulty agreement. We're supposed to go back to work, make a good deal that sounds like there's a chance that there's a pretty good deal. We're supposed to make it right before we agree to a deal, but not after that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u31	A respectable president. It is most reprehensible how this deal was made. No matter how good or bad he is, everything had to be consulted with the many classes involved in agriculture in Iceland today. It would take greater consultations to build trust. The agreement was actually made in smoke - filled back rooms with no transparency, and it does not fall for the trust we were going to try to create after a crash. As a result, at Porta's council, we will be involved in a vote on this agreement, and we find it most reprehensible that we are still on the same path, a process that turns on trying to present our affairs without proper consultation, without speaking to the people, so we will sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u32	Mr. President. A collective agreement may primarily show that there are a number of adjustments. A greater proportion of the employment committees have had to offer and have received excellent receptions, and a good discussion of the contract during the past few days has been made so much better than that, just because we have received numerous reviews and many visitors who have contributed to the balances to improve the situation. The discussion has included: It is stated that we will take it back to the treatment of the committee between discussions, so I am confident that the practical suggestions we offer will be of great help.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u33	Mr. President. Many things could have been done better in preparing and making this contract. The work schedule was far too closed and narrow, as well as a person's home - to - house schedule, with a much too short of the existing contracts. A professional health - care committee has shown positive efforts to correct this matter, and we in itself do not disagree with the results, frames to ten years, with unscrupulous revision regulations in three years. We will support the changes made to a greater part of the employment committee, our own, and others after incidents, but we will vote against deliberation. Otherwise, we would be created very upset. Nevertheless, the whole thing is growing to us, at least The person who stands here has basic advice on the road to take place, especially if changes were not made after three years of review. In addition, behind this issue there is something worse, the tax agreement with the EU. In summary, these issues form agrienvironment schemes for the next few years, and unfortunately, changes are far too small to benefit. So it is only to give up the highest. Governments and their classes are responsible for taking care of the whole case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u34	V.E.G. President. When this bill comes for a vote at 2nd. and after much employment work, it is true that things have improved. It's been taken by a chicken step to make the bill better. Above all, the Council is put in position because of the formality of these contracts that little or nothing can be changed by the General Assembly. That's the thing to keep in mind. Much of this is about the working conditions of farmers, and it also involves consumers in terms of prices. Icelandic farmers deserve credit for producing good products in any situation where antibiotics are not used, not using growth hormone, neither in feed nor in animals. The production is good, and these are wholesome products, but the price is divided. Some people think it's a very, very fair thing, etc. We're here making some adjustments that we're going to realize when they come to a vote, but there are also adjustments that the greater part made to its members that I, as a representative of the Committee, thought I'd move, but it's no matter where it came from, and we'll support them according to events. [[The president calls.]] I then remind you and formally request that the case be passed on to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u35	V.E.G. President. This matter, however, has taken several adjustments to improve the management of the employment committee. I now feel that it guarantees the national food security and food resources. It also ensures that during the contract period the price of consumers will become practical because, as we all know, agricultural supplies are much of where they are practiced so that those who are low can buy these wholesome and good products at a good price. Although several members of the Committee's Committee were running a table on their final scale, the agreement and cooperation within the committee were exemplary, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u36	V.E.G. President. Icelandic agriculture is a very important profession. He makes a product that really doesn't belong to him. The present defectment system is attempting to remedy this problem. Hv. The employment committee has done a great job in adding this contract and changing the agricultural laws that are very important, since the present arrangement is defective that we can no longer enjoy them. [[Up front.]] As a result of these changes, there has been some widespread reconciliation, and they are greatly improved, although something is undoubtedly possible to do better somewhere. I think it's a big interest in the Icelandic people that I vote with the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u37	Mr. President. Farmers deserve a better deal than the one we're accepting here. The consumers likewise deserve a better deal than the one we're accepting. Besides, I don't think it's possible to accept such an extensive contract of 200 billion to ten years. It was noted to the National Committee that considering how the contract is under agreement to ten years of age. I therefore believe that this is the General Assembly to review what is permitted. There is a tremendous amount of power being delivered beyond the walls of the General House. If this deal is agreed, it will mean that we cannot change farms for the next ten years without the company's consent. [[Three years of presentation.]] [[Three years of presentation.]] Nor can we make international agreements on the decline of customs on the imported agricultural products until the next ten years without the approval of the National Association. I think this is forbidden according to Iceland's constitution, it should be respected and therefore I cannot accept this agreement. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u38	A respectable president. I have been giving a talk on this matter of criticism and a considerable dissatisfaction with the arrangement of the Kingdom - strengthening agriculture that it is today. However, I have not proposed to do the cuts or removals of Kingdom farming for the part about which this issue is concerned and to about 13.5 billion a year for the next ten years. I haven't said anything about it. I have criticized, however, that the government's strengths also include customs protection and various business capitals. I'm glad the case goes to a committee a second time, and I challenge it. The employment committee is regularly aware of the effects of the changes proposed by the Committee on Custom Protection. Councilmen and consumers will be informed about this. [[The president calls.]] I won't violate the fact that the case is going to go to a committee, but I'm going to sit by on this case in this traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u39	A respectable president. The handling of this matter at the council is proof that the matter is neglected and badly worked on the part of the government. The Commission decides to try to create a contract objective after a ten - year contract has been made. The ten - year budget is equivalent to the worst account at the Icesave contract, because Icesave was mentioned here, 200 billion of the public money. No analysis of the target of the contract or of the need for results has been made. What a tremendous march on the part of the government! It will be interesting to see the vote and how those dolls of liberality, who run around here day in and day out and pretend to speak for liberality and freedom of action in the area of the Independence Party, and who are going to go to re-tests for next weekend and the next weekend, a vote will be paid. [[The president calls.]] Will they stand by freedom of movement, or will they pass through the Passage in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u40	The president asks why. Councilmen guarding their words and do not make mention of the public speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u41	A respectable president. It's not only the labour agreement, it's also the tax agreement with the EU. There is no doubt that this toll agreement is an enormous opening in the Icelandic market. I've been critical of this contract, but I have to say... [[The president asks for a sound in the hall.]] [[Take it up, Mr President...]] Hv. A professional health committee has done a lot of good work, using what she has, and perhaps better to change this matter. Most of these changes seem to me if not all for the better. I'm also glad that the case goes back into bed. A professional health board, and we know that we'll continue this discussion before the case is finished. In short, I welcome the changes that have come from the beginning. A professional health committee who thinks we're in the right direction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u42	A respectable president. A government government that herself has given up jobs and announced to the election has not been authorized to commit to us the last 200,000 million to ten years. Whatever this bill says, Iceland's Constitution says the budget is in the hands of the Generals. The fullest of what is here must always depend on the fact that more political things are being paid off each year for what it says. There will be no support for any industry in this country against the majority wills in the Parliament. This is important because this contract is so defective that it is necessary to repair it. The positive employment committee has made several improvements, and those who made the contract have agreed to set up a special committee to restore the contract they themselves had signed. I think that says all that has to be said about what kind of sputum is on this table and it's normal to resist the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u43	A respectable president. I thank my colleagues on the job board for good work and good cooperation in this case and in these refinements. There may be a problem with the idea that bills change in committees. I'm just very into it. On the other hand, we are disappointed that those who were working with us with us wholeheartedly jump off the wagon in the first place. I didn't think it was very impressive. We who have faith in Icelandic agriculture, and who want it well, are convinced that this contract is a progressive step, giving us new opportunities for agriculture that we have full faith in his use. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u44	A respectable president. Fate has made it a trade to have to vote for a livestock deal that isn't what I would have wanted. I would have wished every profession could work on its own terms. However, I cannot understand this industry, which has probably been under evil conditions since 1940 in the open field and what I see in this bill is that in the next three years, it will take place and look to the future, not the past, as it has been in recent years. I have once expressed the view that it was a bad bill and a bad deal, and I guess it's true. Something has improved, and I'm going to let myself vote with this contract. The important thing is to look to the future. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u45	A respectable president. It is incomprehensible, hard to believe that this is running against a contract, but it seems very common to agree that there is imperfection and that there is a great change. The changes made to a greater part of the employment committee are in the right direction, although they do not go far enough. In the majority opinion, there are good words to increase consultations, etc. But it's totally incomprehensible why we should first agree and then agree, first by tying ourselves to ten years, possibly after three years, but then checking the case afterwards. It's highly unnatural, and it's hard to be suspicious of driving this case through. Therefore, I urge all the members of the Parliament who are competitive and environmental, to be fans of Icelandic agriculture and farmers, to support this contraband, that this bill will be referred to the government, the current contract of values, and that the case will be properly restored. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u46	Mr. President. The interests of consumers are served by the livestock contract, and they also have long - term bad results for farmers, both unacceptable. That's why we're supporting the UN of this deliberation proposal, and we think it's best to start over and make a deal that will strengthen both consumers and farmers' interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u47	A respectable president. All too often, certain council members and certain senators choose to run away from their responsibilities, fail to recognize the criticisms of society, and fail to deal with the problems facing them, and solve the situation as it should be done at the General Assembly. The groups that have spoken here on behalf of the United States and the Bright Future are doing exactly what these classes have been doing in this important matter in recent years, taking the old contract, and renewing it, the contract originally made for six, seven, but now in their 12th year. Do you want to extend it for how long? Two, three more years? 15 years? No, a respectable president, we decided to face it. The United States has chosen it when she has been in command in recent years to postpone the problem, not to confront it. They may then come to a high vote on this matter. It's an inexpensive compromise, a jaggedy presentation I'm referring to the Fathers' houses, and it's compatible with them. [[The president calls.]] No, we faced the criticisms, faced the problems, and decided to try to lead them to the ground. That's what we're doing, we're taking the biggest step that's taken on the agricultural business for many decades, looking to the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u48	V.E.G. President. Here's a new proposal made by the guy here who's moving. It is simply about that at the prices of the farm, representatives of the products should switch between the major party, who so far have both representatives, and the representatives of my manufacturers will be assigned to the other representatives. I think it's better to walk straight into this and make it clear than it seems to me that the top-of-the-line business, as usual, is to make the suggestion and that this large party, who has been convicted for competitiveness, continues to mention two agents in there. I propose this, and I suggest that the members of the Parliament look at it and agree that both parties should be appointed by the councilman. I think it's part of trying to make more peace with this industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u49	A respectable president. In the work of the Committee, we have made an effort to ensure a fair share of the smaller manufacturers in the market. We feel that it is very important that they are able to expand and that their activities can expand. That's how we made the knots. We were asking for suggestions on how we could secure their status after changing the prices of the agreement and sticking to the review period of what has been in force, how we could secure their position within the current system. There were proposals from the Contestant Institute that are in the bill, and we make adjustments. Then, in fact, we added the appointment to put my audience members on the merit board. You see, this suggestion is not being done too well by a dog. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. That is a problem that will arise if we take the way that he proclaims. I am absolutely willing to examine his full proposal for a change in the price - price board, as well as this, which would appear before the 3rd. The point. [[The president calls.]] We have no other goal but to promote the position of my manufacturers in the payment of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u50	V.E.G. President. It's as often as the government has it, the second best proposal comes. She's a vote here. So it is suggested that at the prices of dairy products, the audience producers of the committee get less of the committee. The members of the government have just suggested that they get one of the representatives. That's why I feel like taking a step this way, and this is better than it is today, that my deputies get an audience officer. So we support that suggestion. I don't know what the problem would be with that, like the why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson wrote about getting a proper agent.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u51	I already explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u52	But I also noticed why. A senator offers a dance, and I take them dancing, finding a better solution than here is. I reiterate what I said to you it is often good to accept the second best proposal that comes and is usually from the government party and therefore I accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u53	A respectable president. In the United States, we opposed the removal of the milk industry over ten years ago of competitive law, which creates unhealthy business practices. Four years later, we moved the same arrangement. That's what they said. paritaprevir While the proposal was in the right direction, a Birgir's Ármannsson needed a closer look. Now I think it's been years so that those of the Independence Party should be able to support it. But when we moved it the third time, it rose to the highest level. the local agricultural minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and intended to appoint a committee to settle the matter because this would not be enough time to do this. That committee has never met. A respectable president. So there is no situation, and it is long time for normal business practices to be practiced around the milk industry, such as other occupations in the country. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u54	A respectable president. This is where it exposes why. paritaprevir The Hjörvar of his ignorance in this matter, of absolute ignorance, when he says that there is nothing that stands in the way of undisputed release from competitive law. The same one. A senator sat in the government for what, six, seven years? He didn't do anything about it then. [["Yes, yes, we have...]] There was nothing on the agenda. Why didn't they finish the case when they were in government? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] No, it's one of the ferocity of the gimmick language that's being practiced here in some kind of poopulism. I completely agree that we should come to the milk industry, i.e. the remaining portion of the principle, of course, of the principle of competition, of course. That is what will now be considered in this review process. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] But everyone who knows the matter knows it and has some trace of knowledge and is willing to approach this objectively that it is not possible to do over one weekend, but it has to be avoided, because it requires other changes associated with lactation in the country. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u55	V.E.G. President. I'm desperate for a high level of competition in the country. This proposal doesn't go far enough. She only assumes that a company with over 90% market share will be subject to competitive legislation. There is no attempt in the suggestion to ensure that a company with a 60% market share will be divided up so that the competition will not only be at the milkpen but also at the store table. For that reason, I cannot support this suggestion and therefore say no. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u56	A respectable president. Interestingly, the members of the Independence Party are running ahead of how they have acquitted and sacred attempt to destroy this matter and prevent natural competitive conditions on this market. We've suggested this repeatedly in the last decade. The interesting thing is that of the highest level. ...this has always been taken down here at the Senate Hall, and by the forwards all, of all three forwards. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u57	The president calls attention to what everyone should be aware of. 4th, including We're out of Suðvest. has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u58	And the highest. The current president, as a agricultural and marine minister in a paper with a bill in 2007, said that this exception was unnecessary because it had produced its complete success. It appeared to a professional body board that there was no need for this reserve to ensure that milk is collected at the same price and sold at the same price all around the country. Thus, it is merely a scintillating to increase the leeway of a soloist who has repeatedly shown that he cannot be trusted to handle the leeway he has so often abused. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u59	V.E.G. President. At the meeting of the employment committee visited by the Contestant Institute, the Committee was asked by the whole committee, including the majority of the committee's tasks, to offer suggestions on the issues we discuss here, i.e. Whether or not to be free from competitive law. The proposals of the Contestant Agency came and were well-founded. The suggestions I made almost unchanged to my suggestion, and about her we're voting now. The suggestions of the employment committee, both major and smaller objects, are here. What did the majority of the committee and others ask for if they are not to be applied? Here are the suggestions that all of us put forth and take steps in a very good and right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u60	A respectable president. In these suggestions, there was no reason for them to suggest that this release would be lifted. These suggestions focus primarily on the interests of my manufacturers. As mentioned in my case before, we have taken it from the Contestant Institute exactly as it is suggested. This focuses on ensuring less manufacturers access to enough raw materials for them to grow and thrive during this review period. That's extremely important. It was observed by the representatives of my manufacturers that unless this change was made, their production would not be able to grow and thrive and even have to stop its production. We believe we're in charge of this by proposals from the Contestant Board, exactly as was suggested, that we ensure this aspect. However, in addition to this, we suggest that their representative be appointed to the retail board so that they have a place at the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u61	A respectable president. The Commission's proposals are simply trying to arrange the knots within the current code of law. Government officials have wanted to protect themselves, but it is possible to prevent the Radamal from continuing its oppressive efforts toward small competitors. The objective of these proposals is that without reproducing an exception, there will still be knots so that free competition can be as small as possible in this area. It is absolutely amazing to see members of the government paying this vote and self - appointed advocates of free competition in particular. And so it is, I would say, after these two votes, that I will take it. The head of the prosecuting committee at the word and invite him to dance with a discussion between us putting the sunset on this unsatisfactory principle that the members of the Independence Party have repeatedly asserted that they have achieved their purpose, is unnecessary, and is important to get rid of. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u62	Mr. President. I'm going to start by saying that we were jumping off the bus, with the left green, which has come to a change in the job committee. That's not true at all. We support the modification proposals of the majority of the things that are improving, despite the fact that we are being overlooked as a whole. There's nothing uncool about that. However, here we are dealing with the changes in the proposals of my representative part of the left green in a business committee that allows payment to be extended to those who have committed grossly or repeatedly against the legal laws for the well - being of animals. We'd like to see that the more part would support this proposal, i.e. that if you live in a place that repeatedly becomes evidence of an animal being or that you have not followed general rules, you will not be able to cut down bone payment. It is unnatural that the State is somehow paying farmers, who hope to be very few, who do not follow the rules and practices of an animal. We can't accept that. It is remarkable to see that the majority of the material cannot support such a suggestion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u63	A respectable president. A bright future supports this transformation. We have talked about the importance of preventing bad treatment of animals and the need for systems such as government support. This is not only a matter of maintaining moral rights to animals but also of importance to agriculture itself, to the EU's self - image, to realize that zoos are not gone by, not to be rewarded, and not to help them continue in an unacceptable way. We support this suggestion of integrity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u64	V.E.G. President. It's time to vote on the length of a livestock contract. I make a suggestion that leaves no doubt that the contract exists for three, but not ten. The greater part is unclear whether he is three or ten years old. Depending on whether you talk to those who are reaching out or who are independent. That is why this issue is made clear. Speaking clearly in this regard is essential for the Council. There was a lawyer by my request to the committee, an expert on contract rights, who encouraged the committee and said that it was definitely meant to be accompanied by a book of agreements on common understanding, that this was for three years. When the case was taken out, I asked if the book was not coming. It's not here yet, as you can see at 2nd. but it was foretold that this publication would occur through the 3rd. Nevertheless, I would like to hold this proposal inside to have my clarity complete. [[The president calls.]] In terms of legalization, the General must speak clearly, and that includes. That is why, out of human understanding, whether it's a forward or an independent party, that we want a roll call to get the stand forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u65	Mr. President. I consider this discussion of the length of the contract, three or ten years, to be a few misunderstandings based on it. The contract itself is signed in advance for the annual approval of the capital of the fund to the financial resources involved in it. I can't support this proposal, and in fact, I'm more inclined to vote against it. I believe the result of the adjustment made by a greater part of the employment committee is the best thing available to the current situation in this case, i.e. that a frame to ten years will remain, but an unscrupulous revised law will come in three years from now. Political and physical things are growing in such a way that it is, in my opinion, the best result available. We have a general view of the matter to support the changes in this bill that we feel are for improvement, but we sit by the rest of it, and in accordance with that, we will be embarrassed by this proposal, even though it would be easier for me to vote against it. [[Take it up: Do it.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u66	A respectable president. In order to discuss this matter, a professional health - care committee was contacted by a specialist in contracts from Iceland's University. In her case it was quite clear that negotiations can be made clear that this review law maintains absolutely. It is very important for Icelandic agriculture, such as all other work in the country, to have a vision in their jobs, to see something into the future, in the long term, and therefore we choose to hold this frame. But he has only a strength to work on. Every year the last word in that matter was a general assembly. It has been put to the test when, at the end of 2008, it was determined to reduce the payments to farmers without consulting them with any legal assistance at the council. Congress has found a way to handle this matter. The Council's hands are not being tied for longer than a year at the time of these matters. [[The president calls.]] It's very important that we all understand it, especially the people in the community, because it has been claimed that it's being bound for two and a half terms of terms. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u67	A respectable president. Although the existing agreement is a problem, it is clear that farmers need a contract for several years. It seemed that he would be content to be extended to three years but not that a contract that is so bad that he should revise before being approved for ten years of age with 200 you. A million. K. A commitment to the taxpayers, where the warning of revision is primarily on the farm side, where laws in the old agricultural law fail to negotiate for one year. Here, those who are willing to negotiate for three years say yes while the contract is being revised. No, those who want to make a commitment to a state fund of about 200 billion to ten years of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u68	A respectable president. A bright future moved a deliberation proposal, where we called after the process would be resumed, and a decent agreement was made for the council rather than accept substantial changes in the agricultural system and then plan to change it afterwards. However, in view of the fact that the deportation proposal was dropped, an evil note, of a greater number of members of the council, we view the three years of a bad deal as better than ten years of a bad contract, and so we will support these adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u69	A respectable president. We in the United States have been accompanied by public strength provided to support Icelandic agriculture, i.e. in order to strengthen the grasslands and spread settlements, to support traditional and commercial civilizations in the country, on the grounds that farmers can be strengthened and strengthened by the methods of eco-friendly production, organic farming, and the honor of animal transport and good manufacturing practices. This deal is, for example, a contract. not environmentally friendly. For example, it strengthens the sheep'flocks into an overcrowding area. This is a contract that disrupts normal market conditions. This is not a good deal for farmers and consumers in this country. That is why we feel utterly unreasonable in agreeing to the agreement that this agreement is passed until the next ten years. It's completely absurd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u70	A respectable president. There is good reason to pay attention to the fact that this is a law that applies to the year 2026 in connection with this agreement. Hv. paritaprevir In a discussion about the contract, Páll Jóhann Pálsson said that it was a little fun for each one to decide whether he would view it as a three - year contract or ten - year - old. Of course, that is not true in a real country. It has to be prepared for what men are doing. It's not more important than a former U.S. Marshal. The prime minister of Þorsteinn's son, Pálsson's son, gives a valid argument that there is at least a limit to the Constitution to bind the hands of the Generals so long into the future with enormous financial expenditures, as is the case in the case of a ten - year contract. Don't forget the amount of money at stake, $200 billion. So I think it's very important that we take off all the doubles in this. If this proposal of ours is to be made, it is very important that the committee make it very clear in explanation that the new Council, which hopefully will be more liberal than this, has plenty of space to change this agreement during the next election period and that the state will not be bound to pay off from that contract. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u71	A respectable president. That sounds a little better, I think we're just 10 from the South Sea. - But I'd like to say that agriculture is like any other job, each other's business. It's just a matter of view. To choose one year at a time, that the agriculture will be uncertain over the next three years about what will be, I don't think it's good. We have a frame deal to ten years of revised law, we're legally establishing a meeting on how we can re-vise this agreement, just as the most important agreement has been called, and we're saying that this agreement has not been sufficient. I can't possibly support the fact that farmers will be in the same confusion for the next three years. The need for agriculture, like any other professional. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u72	President. That's it. That's it. Farming is like any other way to work. It's just no other way of working that has a contract to ten years about how things are supposed to be. Here's a suggestion that this agreement exist for three years, that one day you say it's three and the next one comes and says it's ten. Last night I tried to resist the final debate. The manager of the case to convince me that the deal won't get us back in three years, but he couldn't convince me. That's why it's simple: Let's attach it to the law, get national agreements, and then come back with a new deal in three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u73	A respectable president. There have been many changes made, and many have come up here and tried to undermine it somehow and enter that this contract is a bad deal, and here it is unclear whether it is for three years or ten. We are talking about a 10-year frame deal, a contract, as we do with a number of jobs. Are those who suggest that there be a three-year contract to suggest that there should be political uncertainty here when dealing with a business enterprise, e.g. of innovation and so forth, to ten years? Are there any indications that it is possible to compare it only regularly according to events? I don't think so. There's a 10-year cross-refer on a clear review law in three years, and I'd like to thank a job board for a good job. We make a good deal for farmers who imagine how their business environment will last ten years, and they realize that in the next three years it will be what it will be like after the three years. This contract is also good for consumers. We want to have agricultural products in Iceland, and more than four fifths of Iceland wants to buy Icelandic products. [[The president calls.]] Sounds to me like the members of Congress that have come up here all day trying to undermine this contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u74	V.E.G. President. This proposal is pretentious. It is clear that the legal right to negotiate was a failure to prevent the revision of this contract. It is also that all government contracts are made in advance of each year's budget. There is no doubt that the Council is in control of this agreement exactly as are other treaties made. Because there has been a host of them over height, i.e. Ten years of farm strength, i.e. agri-efficiency in Iceland is about a year. 1% of GDP, with customs protection included, which is very close to what happens in the OECD countries. This is what we do to ensure food security and food independence, to ensure the benefit of both farmers and consumers. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u75	A respectable president. This is useful. The Prime Minister of the Future Party falls here on the platform and says that this is a contract for ten years, and farmers can rely on this money for that time and are not subject to political ideals from year to year. On the contrary, the platform is followed by a representative of the Annexe Party on the Work Board, stating that the basis for the contract to be held after the next ten years is that the General will agree with it each year. [[To the point: Of course. On the budget.]] Therefore, this proposal is made to explain that the present situation is only being extended for a short period of time while working together in consultation and review and achieving a much more progressive and better contract for consumers in the country, as well as for farmers, and particularly for the scattered areas that have truly gone out in these agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u76	A respectable president. Here we have from what? The members of the United States of brought up a political proposal that is entirely typical of this class when it comes to important issues, such as the main occupation of the industry. We've seen how they've been talking in the fishing business until now, were here at the helm, and could not go on with the impossible ways they had preached. It's completely meaningless. Some of them what? In 2008, when this was done, members of the council who are present at the council participated in cutting down payment on farm contracts. [[Up front.]] Of course, it is clearly clear that this is on the Generals Table every year. But it is important for the article to have a vision of the future. There is a complete twin in these men when they pretend in another word to put the interests of farmers and rural areas before them and then offer suggestions and speak in the way that we witness. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u77	A respectable president. These contracts are made in consultation with a few. These contracts will contribute to overpowering. They're not environmentally friendly. In time, they will likely reduce prices to farmers. They confirm the use of the Lactates' agreements from competitive laws that apply for all other occupations in the country. It's a bad deal. The idea of voting for three years is very difficult, but in view of the fact that more part of the U.S. Congress has seen a reason to reject the Bjart's counter proposal for a return to a contract and that the contracts will be properly obtained, the idea of being responsible is that the contract works for three years better than that it should be cast into stone for ten years. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u78	A respectable president. During both customs contracts and markets for the Generals, comments have been made on the current system, which is being offered at tollovita. This system ensures that international treaties that Iceland has undergone will not succeed. It will not be competitive, it will not be good because it gets excited, and because it is paid so much for the tollcanians, immigrants are tempted to import cheaper and inferior products. So it is very important to change this system, assign these files with a coin to produce results from the system's overall design. Illegal production is to be heavily supported and given much support, and we support it. But it is also meant to be competitive in price and quality. It is very important that these articles take place in order to develop, grow, and keep on growing. That's why I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u79	V.E.G. President. Here's a proposal made by the management body for the first time in Iceland can be moved into the country without the supertoll of the state. We support this chicken pace. Well, of course, we'd like to take care of all of this, but we didn't. As I say here about the second suggestion that most part made, this was one of the suggestions I had planned to make, but it's moved from the greater part. And no matter where good comes from in this chicken step. That's why we're paying votes, members of the United States, with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u80	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller will be talking about steps in these matters. It's obvious that I don't recall the group he's been working at had any big steps in politics ever taken, so there's only hope that he's stuck in this. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But here, of course, it's taking a very big step. You can't say it any other way. The process of changing and developing future policies for Icelandic agriculture is taking a larger step than the ladders have been taking for decades. This cheese thing is something special. It's been one of the main criticisms that this is not part of an invitation to cheese that's not made in Iceland. Now it will be permitted to import 230 tons of them each year. We'll make a run for it. This was to be stepped in, this amount, over four years, which will take effect on January 1, 2017. The consumers will feel this at the beginning of the next year. Of course, this is extremely important. [[The president calls.]] We'll use the lots route on these groups just so that in the revision, there are two ways to compare, two ways to work which is better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u81	V.E.G. President. Many of the senators have striven to advocate romance for competition and marketism. It has been added to the fact that the small one is being defended. The other one's a small company. I would like to encourage such a spirit of cooperation and ask what it has done in this regard. I'm talking about the cooperation of Icelandic cow farmers. I would like to draw the attention of the council that in recent years milk and dairy products have reduced the real value of more than 20% and protected the interests of consumers, farmers, costs of about 3 billion a year, 2 billion for consumers, and 1 billion for farmers. This arrangement, in turn, aims to make a suggestion to be destroyed. I'm warning you. The weak person in my mind who has to be protected is the low-payer, the low-pay family. It's the people we're supposed to be guarding. [[The president calls.]] I warn you, there will be some dancing, some trouble, between discussions to serve the mood of the Contestant, which sees its first role, to me, to undermine a cooperation which has brought us much benefits, especially the low-payers of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u82	Mr. President. If I'm in the right place at the vote, we're paying votes for the change in the 10th section, which is about the article of the bill, which had a 150% rise in a so-called customs class reference price, called the SDR. It was substantially inserted to make this 150% increase that the committee changed and aims at a value of values, but it will still be a 75% rise. So you just realize what's going on here. This price, of course, is being increased by 75% and the price paid for consumers. I say no to this suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u83	A respectable president. Yes, this was part of this giant step, turning down this standard substantially, so the increase won't be that high. It counts in a dozen percent, but let's figure out that it's being calculated from 1995 to an indicator, if we trace this, by about 150%. But will this lead to an increase? No. This is the result of a significant increase in the import rate, the import permissions. In beef of 100 tons to 696 tons. In pork from 200 tons to 700 tons. In chickens from 200 tons to 1,056 tons. To illustrate: We have 200 thousand tons of fish in cod. If we went into a million tons, wouldn't that lead to some reduction? Of course, all of this increase will be the marvelous amount of activity established by the Management Board and the Independence Party, although it has been in the government all these years, no - this is a multi-fold extension of import documents. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, customs prices will turn down. Of course, it will benefit consumers. [[Up front.]] It's just a flimsy one.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u84	A respectable president. This is where we pay a vote for a modification model 2. smaller parts have been set. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u85	No, it's a 1st thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u86	It's the first memory part. I'll just go.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u87	A respectable president. We here voted for the changes we have made previously in a material way, but it had also been declared that there would be a problem between discussions. The job board reviews the case. Wait a minute. Senators are not here discussing that we are defending in some way an animal threat. Not at all. To eliminate such fractional support or direct payment is a complex task, and we want this to be done well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u88	V.E.G. President. Here we vote on my proposal to have a ruler repeatedly committed a violation of the laws of these to cancel public funds for him. This is a proposal presented in the 141th legislature of the animal welfare bill. This law was issued in the activities of the Committee, and therefore directly to the Ministry of Employment and Development to consider whether it should be revised to the agricultural and agricultural legislation and to renew the contract on the basis of them, which is what we are doing today. The Ministry has done nothing in this case and has not made any suggestion, therefore this proposal is moved here. It has been previously moved and has been postponed, as I have traced, with the Committee to the Professional Road Committee. Therefore, I challenge the council members to accept this proposal here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u89	Mr. President. Here is a set of material votes that were comparable to those proposed earlier in the vote. paritaprevir My daughter's Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney says that it will be helpful to drop into the livestock, or to say that it is said to lower or drop, pay to parties that repeatedly, and seriously have broken down on an animal voyage. As noted earlier, this type of law was in the original animal travel bill, but it was canceled with the argument that there was to be an improvement in the provision of the agricultural contracts for this to be done. Does not that mean that it is? Or who will stand in this public discourse and support the need for the Kingdom to strengthen year after year with money for the manufacture of an animal who treats it badly? [[Top of the line, no one.]] It cannot be that no one wants that cause. I challenge it. The job committee is taking this for treatment between the 2nd and 3rd. [[The president calls.]] We must be able to unite in the implementation of these developments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u90	A respectable president. Now we're paying votes on changing proposals from part 2 of the employment committee on the environmental impacts of agriculture that I don't think anyone's mind is meaningful and reasonable to assess their effects. The climate is especially important, as well as, of course, the pressures on land and land quality and vegetation. I think we all agree on that. There we have a particular methodology, which is environmental assessment methodology, which is definitely a good tool to explore these effects. Therefore, we hereby suggest that in conjunction with the order of the meeting group, a minister should appoint a group of workers to assess the environmental impact of domestic agreements in accordance with environmental assessment techniques. I see that man has some difficulty in supporting this case, so I'd like to direct it to him. Work committees consider this to be between 2 and 3. Um, because I think these are the viewpoints that we should all be able to support.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u91	A respectable president. I would like to declare it on our behalf of the Committee that I believe this is one of the points we should consider between discussions. In fact, we're very familiar with these aspects of the overview that we're going to review now and be in the next three years, for the longest, of course, it can be over sooner if you get back together earlier. But that is exactly where we come in on the environment, and we think it's very important that they will be examined by Icelandic agriculture. I think if the future is under control, the carbon track of Iceland can be positive. Let us see if we cannot meet some of the viewpoints there and perhaps go beyond the suggestions already being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u92	A respectable president. I would like to express the satisfaction of the initiative that the majority of the committee took in this approach, although it is certainly a little special to make a conversation about who should be held after men are started. But let's call it a day. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that our proposal in the United States today has made it very clear to the vote by the government's declarations that this is a serious plot that is about to begin. There will be a change. In this regard, government officials have declared to one another that the decisions made that have not been made a volume beyond the time of the revision. It's very important. We'll hold on to it. I hope that the committee will be more effective with discussions, but this is clear, and it is now clear in legal evidence that the next term will require changes in order to make basic changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u93	A respectable president. Just to be said, it's not because I feel that the color and empty suggestions of the United States that I believe have captured something against the fact that the deal is here every year. It's just the sound of the law. It's just part of our board of directors how it's done. The union has nothing to do with it. I feel that they have been very lenient in their language, especially in a more objective conversation that has taken place during the vote, a double - skined for the length of the contract, suggestions that are of little value and of the evil. And these are the people who in recent years have run away from the task of facing the problems and the disagreements of Icelandic agriculture and are something we cannot cope with for long periods of time. There are very many good things in this contract that have not been discussed, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why it's important for him to take effect. It'll even come. to vegetation and land, to innovation in agriculture, to organic farming, and so many other things that it is not a reason to delay here, but to draw a line into the sand and begin a major step into the future for the sake of Icelandic agriculture, farmers and consumers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u94	A respectable president. In my youth, popular advertising was the key to not securing. It was often said, "You don't guarantee later. " But here, more of the council is doing just that, securing afterwards, by accepting the contract first, and then in consultation to improve it. It went on with Bjart's waning proposal for the future, not to work with this kind of handbacking, but to do it before the decision is confirmed. It's so simple. Enrollment, of course, is positive, but it is not possible in any way to agree on what is to happen afterwards. A man can't guarantee later, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u95	A meeting is a practical arrangement for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u96	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to the Constitution order of a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. Three new requirements are proposed to be added to the constitution, i.e. Directives on the environment, natural resources, and national requirements. The bill is in accordance with the proposals of the Constitution committee delivered to the prime minister in July. They are the result of the three - year work of the Committee, which was formed in the fall of 2013. The suggestions have been made in good agreement between all classes, and I would like to thank the representatives in it for having worked hard to get them together. As shown in a paper with the bill, however, at the end there was a difference between the comments made by the Commission and the proposals that called for changes in them. I believe, though, that there is not much between the fact that the council should not be able to explain the importance if there is a will. Now is an opportunity that may not come back until four years later. I believe the committee has done a very good job finding out where the average route lies regarding the issues it took, so it is the next normal step to contribute the bill to the Council. The review of the Constitution has been very controversial in this country since the 2008 financial collapse. Some feel that the collapse has shown the need to write a new constitution from the start. Others want to be very careful and change as little as possible. But I think most people are on the evidence that the current constitution has proved exactly what it means to be able to get out of the collapse without having it all together. As a result, the matter has been somewhat self - righteous. During this terms, there has been an intermediate period. The proposals of governance have been proposed, but the approach has been to process them in stages. I think this is the best choice I've got. The contrast between states is taken into consideration by using as an exhilarator of a administrative body, 25 citizens, who were well grounded in a decision-to-be, and by giving all political parties a chance to set their goal on final implementation and to work out the suggestions in steps, giving the time needed for all to be reconciled or to the next. I think that as soon as this interstate is proved, we have a recipe for how to get the constitutions going. So now we have what we have in our hand to take matters out of the self - esteem it has been in. Why the Three Principles? At the beginning of his work, the committee decided to set priorities based on what was most urgent and what would be likely to be settled. There are not many words to say that national property of natural resources has been in this country's discussion for many years, and it is very desirable to resolve this issue with a constitution. In recent years, national laws have been very high, and the demand for greater opportunities in the community has been high. The environmental issues are one of the most urgent challenges of our day in this country as well as in the rest of the world. With such regulations in the constitution, we take the example of the Norwegian, Sweden, and Find. The committee discussed fourth of the regulations on the expeditation of the State. For political reasons, agreements were not reached on the basis of the proposal. Then let us go to the subject of the bill. A- team 1st. it is a new arrangement for environmental protection. In 1st. is a declaration of the natural nature of Iceland's nature as the basis for life in the country, the responsibility for protecting nature and environment is common among all, i.e. Not only governments but lawyers as well as individuals. That responsibility, in turn, is further developed in the law. It is suggested that protection should be based on a precautionary and long-term basis with sustainable development. It should be supported by the maintenance of nature's diversity and the growth of biodiversity and maintenance. Two. says everyone enjoys a wholesome environment. It is a declaration of policy that should be guided by governments. In addition, public rights are stated but also reminded that they are not limitless, that they do not include the right to mismanage nature, or that they ignore landowners' interests. It is the task of the Lawgiver to expand more carefully the content of the public court and how it is reserved for other important rights and interests. In my opinion, the approval of the law would provide a sound basis for coping with challenges we face because of travel. As the report shows, it must be evaluated by the Lawgiver to determine whether specific instructions are needed in order for organization, control and protection measures due to increased pressures on nature resulting from a large number of tourists. Furthermore, it says that it is not excluded that there is a need to draw boundaries between rights and public to free passage and residences and the possibility of tourism to use these rights for profit. That's 3 mg. The public's right to inform about the environment, the impact of implementation on the environment as well as the inclusion of decision-making factors affecting the environment. The model for this paragraph is in the Árús Convention and is suggested that two of its three pillars be submitted to the Constitutional value. I know that the committee discussed whether the right to have a legal dispute should also be in the constitution. There are different viewpoints, including The need for a careful consideration of the effects on legislation before making a decision to take such a step. B-jords 1st. is a new arrangement for natural resources. This is consistent with the proposals of a resource committee from 2000, but it also takes into account the work of the Commission and the World Commission during the last term. In 1st. the declaration of policy means that natural resources of Iceland belong to the Icelandic nation, should be used in a sustainable way and in the benefit of all the countries. This paragraph applies to all natural resources independent of property. The essence of the law is found in 2 mg. which says that natural resources and national rights not dependent on private rights are national property. This refers to the crops of the sea, the water supply of energy, the earth's earth's surface, and the earth's surface. This quality is forbidden to be given to others for possession or permanent use. 3 mg. will be such an important principle that a legal fee should be taken for the use of natural resources and national rights that are owned or owned by the State. The distribution of innovations should be based on law and should be balanced and transparent. The discussion of this kind is often confined to the seabed, but it is a natural arrangement that covers a much larger area. Its word must be in general enough to cover all natural resources and include sufficient space for governments at any given time to decide, e.g. Time of renewal and payment arrangements. Such measures do not automatically lead to changes in the fishing system, but they are the rights of the warning in Article 1. Fishing control layer and making possible changes easier from a legal point of view. The law contains many very important principles for the provision of resources here on earth and provides a new basis for reconciliation on the issues and arrangements that give the nation a fair share in the resources that bring to us. The biggest change is probably C-joins 1. The bill is about national pay. There, 15% of voters have the right to impose binding national law on the Council and new national rights agreements. In the National Code, there is simply more to it than that in order to slant the law or to make a decision, the more part must be at least 25% of the voters per vote. Although the number of countries who assume such rights in a constitution is not limited to a number of advanced democracies that have taken such a step. It consists primarily of Switzerland and Liechtenstein, as well as Italy. The reason is simple, this is a variation from the so - called government democracy and no wonder, then, that to agree on such things on the Constitution committee, there must be defences that reduce the risk of abuse of this system. The main source of protection is the barrier to more part against law or to conclude that the will of at least 25% of voters to vote. There is also time to collect a relatively short signature. I think that's a problem with the application of Iceland's President at his 26 st. The Constitution has cleared the way for that on the land. Technically, it would have been preferable to review 26. ... ontheway. The new provision is made so that voters do not test the rights until the president has taken his stand on new laws. Yet, it may be asked, " Is it reasonable to have two ways of paying a national law for a new law that holds the threshold in one case rather than the other? ' For political reasons, it was not possible in this agerenna to agree on the change in President's authority. It would also have to be viewed in complete terms as well as in a constitution. At the end, I'd like to point out that the bill today would have included some very drastic suggestions ten years ago. The work of a board of directors and discussions over the past few years has had a powerful effect. I stress that the best thing to do is to achieve such changes in a good deal of reconciliation at the World Parliament and in the community. It will only be if everyone is ready to give in to the utmost demands. I think that if men look at the proposals with an open mind and fairness, they should be convinced that they are good and look for progress and that they tend to bring the constitution to modern use in important fields, provide a more solid basis for the Lawgiver to deal with the urgent solutions, emphasize the nation's ownership of common resources, and strongly conflict with the views of the public's increased influence on politics. Moreover, their consent would prove that we can share in renovating the Community covenant in harmony with the requirements of time. The bill is presented on the basis of 1. Ninety-niner. The constitution. This is the traditional method for the Constitution changes. Most of the time during this ideal period, the people looked forward to temporary use of the arrangement. My estimate is that from what is now available, it is best to cooperate with the traditional arrangement. So I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Commission and monitoring committee after the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u97	President. The interview with what? The prime minister after giving this bill stated that the proposals had been discussed for a long time, actually since the year 2000, he said. Of course, that is not true. It must have meant that since the year 2000, the provision for national property of resources was considered. It was the beginning of 2005 that a board of directors was appointed by the president of the General Jón Kristjánsson. She was designed to reexamine I., II, and V. of the Constitution, i.e. The chapter on the change of power, about the President, and about the court. But the committee decided to exclude no part of the Constitution. The committee served for two and a half years and returned a landmark report. No common conclusion came from that work. Why not? Because old - fashioned politics are out of control. This proved true then and proved true again nine years later after more than 50 meetings in less than three years. In June 2010, until the approval of a government body law, four proposals had been made for a government council. First by Páll the son of Zóphóníasson, a member of the Assembly of the House of forwards, in 1948, then by Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir in 1995. For Sif, in February 2009, the Friðleifsdóttir Daughter, along with other members of the Agency, presented a bill for the Constitutional Congress of four political parties, i.e. Groups, left green, forward and liberal, for the establishment of a government body. Why are proposals presented for a administrative body? This is because the Council has not been able to handle the project. The task is to reexamine the constitution. However, the project was under control. There's a suggestion. On October 20, 2012, 64% of the participants answered the question of whether to offer suggestions for a new constitution. Sadly, the success of the old political schools is illustrated by the fact that when men had thrown into the ocean of all the remarkable work of a constitution completed during the last term, the result of a new but old - fashioned board of directors will be to try to reach the conclusion of writing four new articles into the Constitution. How did it work out? Here's a bill for three new articles. To be honest, I think it's kind of funny to have participated in this, but I believe it shows our will in the Union to get something on this very urgent matter. I would like to emphasize that in 2015 our national meeting agreed after this work continued with the administration and work done during the last term of a new election period. So, what is the result of all this meeting with the Constitution committee? In more than 50 meetings, three new provisions and a number of pages of articles can help explain the contents of the articles. Of course, this should be the case with the arrangement of a constitution that is so clear that dictionaries do not need to be understood. It would be a great deal from lawyers, you see, explaining the constitution and pretending that it is their special property or special assignment. But there is not even a common understanding of the Governing Body of the whole explanation. Indeed, their wording lay low. I would like to take an example of the expression "Vatta" in the terms of natural resources. I understand a natural price for the use of resources, such as that the resource should flow to the nation, not in the pockets of the developers. But that is not to be used as a legal concept, or something like that. Instead, it uses the word "characterism" which does not have the same meaning as a resource. But in terms of the regulations presented here for the national possession of resources in general, I'm not afraid of that for myself. While it is not said of total cost, it is taken out of doubt that some still want to promote a common resource as a national property and should be paid a natural price. The law says not to receive a price, not that it is permitted. It's supposed to be a normal fee. Some of my fellow soldiers disagree with me in this regard, but they have not been able to convince me that the law is unacceptable. So it is not because of this law that I told myself of support to the proposals, which are the results of the Committee. This is the full pack, i.e. That by this law, which I thought could swallow, there were added far too great barriers to the law of national law, as well as to what may be required of national law. Today, the most controversial decisions made by the Generals are often taken in the council rather than by law. I'll list a frame plan. The arrangement presented here says, by permission of the president: It is recommended by law as agreed with 2/3 parts votes at the General Assembly to determine the same value of conclusions that have a proper effect or include important policy measures. That. that they can be referred to as national regulations. There is nothing to say that the Council should handle this matter. In fact, humans pretend to be opening up to national regulations, but at the same time, they rule out that the issues that have been disputed into national pay. That's pretty funny to me. Of course, there was no soil to allow the nation to take the initiative in making a legal case, oh no. A few words about laws on the environment and nature. The Commission was not willing to take provisions to protect the outback, and they also did not want to give a third witness to the Convention on the proper environmental management of the environment, i.e. the public's authority to make an independent decision on the environment. The Lawgiver is left to decide this right, which is a fundamental course, and it belongs to a constitution. Then there was the raisin at the end of a hot dog, which I feel exposes the position of the governments on this job. At that time, there was no desire to make a suggestion for exposition of authority. It is unmistakably, however, that the Constitution needs to discuss sources, restrictions, and arrangements for the expeditation of government in the interests of peace and international cooperation. Because of the pressure of popular politics, such a law is not included in the suggestions presented here. There is evidence of a group of political views on the entire work. The selected groups do not want a new constitution, the selected groups oppose system changes. Therefore, old - fashioned politics will not be able to change the Constitution. Therefore, modern powers must unite to continue with the work done during the last term, ensure modern human rights section in a constitution, consistently guarantee the voting rights of every human being, individuality, freedom of information and information rights, to name something. At the end, I'd like to tell you what all this work is doing in the constitution of this year, and last term has left with me. I feel almost overwhelmed by the view that the Constitution and its construction are a special project for lawyers or others in the Academy. My patience for that outlook will be over and over again if she is not just thirsty. The Constitution is certainly the foundation upon which all legislation is based, based on core laws, or its name in Danish. But the Constitution is to be in English. Its regulations should reflect the values on which we want to build our community. It is less than a legal or academic subject, and I allow myself to wonder whether it would be better to call artists to these works. Artists are far more sensitive to their surroundings than lawyers are, therefore, perhaps more qualified to perceive the national soul. But that is exactly what a constitution is supposed to be. Its regulations should reflect the national soul, not a playground for lawyers'debates. That is exactly what happened in the Council of Control. The national soul overtook it. The work that old - fashioned politics cannot control was accomplished. The work must be completed and written and approved by a new constitution based on that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u98	Mr. President. I am one of those who have served in the Board of Directors during this terms. To recall only the background, it was set up during this time period, in November 2013, of that time at the highest level. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson, appointed two representatives from an independent and forwarding party, and one representative of each of the ruling parties, and then one president appointed by prime minister. In January 2014, the committee began its work, and its work was four requirements. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir chosen speech, i.e. nature protection laws, national resources, national regulations and the provision of authority. I'm not going to spend a lot of time reviewing what this committee came up from, but it can be said that it was some kind of effort to clear things up after the much work that was done in the last terms of an experiment, very important, in order to create a new constitution after we had had had had what may be called a preliminary government file from a republicC that has been extremely reluctant to change. It has been a long time since the last changes made in human rights phases. We've been talking a lot about the Constitution changes at the council, but we're not making any more changes. Then it was in the season of 2009,2013, that the government of the Left Green and Controversies decided to vote for a administrative body, which was later appointed by the council as the Council of Government, which composed a plan for a new constitution. In the autumn of 2012, they were approved by the adviser of national law. It is very important that we do not forget, for it was the intention of giving the people of the country the opportunity to establish a new constitution. In many respects, that process is unique. I think it's very important that we try to be faithful to that process and faith to those who went to the votes and gave them their votes. That's in line with the conclusions I make on my movements, the national meetings resolutions of the left movement, which we've repeatedly said is a matter of building on that basis. We sat on this committee because we thought it would be at least there. trying to get some kind of effort based on this former job. I must say, after having attended more than 50 meetings in this committee, which in many respects were well - planned, I am disappointed by the slowness of my work. The chairman of the Commission, Sigurður Líndal, left in mid - 2014. A new chairman, Páll the son of Þórhallsson, was appointed. For a long time, the advance party was not fully assigned to the committee, where Skúli Magnússon, representing the forward party, reported off duty. And when a new deputy came in, Einar Bjarnason, of course, took it, with all due respect for all the people involved who did their best to go back to work again. The work of the Committee became very busy. I said in a book I presented when the committee returned a milestone report in the summer of 2014, and I was very optimistic about the fact that all of this was going to have its start, that I stressed that the committee had finished working on these four regulations so that they could be elected in a national bill along with the 2016 election. As a review, there has been a provisional directive for the change in constitution during this terms that assumed that we would not have to interrupt a council and bring a council back to accept changes in the constitution, which my knowledge is not the right and good arrangement. I think that's what our experience shows. It was important to me that this law was applied. There was a very large section of the evidence of this change. It's like so many other things, finding out the big compromises. But no matter how we implement it, I think, in the beginning, I want to say that the only right way to change the constitution is to do it through Congress and then through national law. This arrangement, which has been absolutely hopeless, knows and puts the inaugural pressure on these changes each time, except that it is normal for the nation to accept or refuse a political change in the matter of changing the basics of the country. So I'll go back to the story, as early as January or February, let's say, early in the year, because my memory is certainly not infallible, until early 2015, we were four regulations. However, in the mid - 2015 year, probably in the fall of 2015, it is suggested that we be willing to waive a form of authority, which, although all of us had agreed at the beginning that it was absolutely necessary, because we regularly discuss in the council that we are working with a directive in the international cooperation we are involved in, and I, of course, testify to the EEA community, where we come up with grey areas about when we are actually going to a higher level of authority. We've talked about this many times, and we've called up the most skilled experts. And yet, and yet, as I counted, the clear will of all men to make for this form of law, of some kind, of a clear frame, was not the will to complete such work. All right. The committee continued. This sounds like some story where people fall off the train and regulations fell off the train one by one. But we tried to complete our three responsibilities, and I continued to feel optimistic about it. However, it was clear in the autumn months of 2015 that it would be too late to finish the case before the 2016 elections. Perhaps it was because of a former chief. The Republic's president had given this hall a strong warning that there would be a vote for a change of constitution with the election that it was not. At least it wasn't done. So we're already at that place right away. The prime minister recommends this matter, and it is suggested to use the old method, to check terms. That alone is a huge disappointment, Mr. President. In this regard, the subject is that much compromise has been made there. There's something everyone's given away. I would like to state that it was on the committee that everyone had to yield something of their demands. That's exactly what was said in the case of the highest court. Prime Minister. I especially wanted to mention a case that was very thoughtful of me, and I know it. The members of the committee will know that I spoke it extensively at many meetings, and this is about national pay. I thought, first of all, it was very important that if we were to agree with the regulations of national law, it would be reasonable to conclude that certain didn't agree. It was talked about on the Committee how to establish such terms, to be a policymaker, to have a proper influence, to say major conjectures, not a conclusion on a minor matter, so you just put it straight. And why did I find this important? Yes, for example, I can mention that we often make very major decisions, such as in the environment, when we discuss a structure adopted in the form of a synonym. Then we are making irreversible decisions for the protection and use that are often very controversial in the community. If I look back, let's say for the last 20 years, these are the most controversial issues in society. Is it not reasonable to allow people to express their views on such matters? Suggested Memberal application for the European Union was adopted as a concierge. Many agree that it was natural to have a national bill about that conclusion in the past. Would it not be reasonable to give the nation an opportunity to demand a vote for such things? But the conclusion was that this door is opened. It is a small portal that is opened to the point of saying: A law approved by 2/3 parts votes at the General Assembly is to determine the same value for right - to - do conclusions or to include important policy measures. So the law is not unconcerned. Rather, it is placed in the Lawgiver's hands to accept laws that build a framework for such action. It's just one of those things that was really tore up at the Committee. That's where everybody left something, in this process, so I'll give an example. But then the mission was to send these suggestions together, these three, for review. I say, because the time is short, I'm not going to review all the points discussed on the committee. That would be very interesting, but for that, I'd need more time, Mr. President. What I specifically mention is that we send out these articles and the highest. In his earlier speech, the prime minister expressed it somehow that there had been a mutual agreement on the proposals, yet there was a difference of meaning. But while there may be a difference in the meaning of a constitution, it may not be able to cut deep. I was also disappointed when it came to hear that the committee did not want me to be processed. I'll mention it specifically, as a dog. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir also made a subject, that here we are in this motion to recommend that two supports of the Lander Convention be introduced, and not the third, which is a key part of the whole covenant. I'm not sure about this. At least I still haven't heard any reasons why the third one shouldn't follow. I believe that this committee should have finished her work and set this third support in harmony with the comments received and had nothing to do with the grammatical and validities based on evidence. I also think, and I'm particularly interested in this principle of environmental protection, which has been a great deal of effort on my movement for years, that it is very damaging not to consider the comments being made that were specifically discussed in the openness of the law itself, as in the proposals of governance and continued following the treatment of the administrative and surveillance committees during the last term. Nor have I heard any particular argument against that added one. The situation in this case, Mr. President, is that we explained our position, the government led us in a common accounting. Our account shows that in view of the year's election campaign, and we didn't see that the committee would have a lot of time ahead to work more - but we had some notes in my files that I had already kept about the next rules to mention when we were finished with the three, which we would later be doing in 2014, we were preparing to cover the Presidency and more, and it was never finished - we agreed on the committee's return, and first to show where work was and it also shows that it did not come to a conclusion about the outcome of this work. I can mention more than I have already mentioned in terms of the unnoring and third support of the Conspiracy Convention. I can also mention the emphasis I would have found important to discuss further, which is on landowners' terms for environmental protection. Of course, a case that we discussed many times in the Committee was the thresholds of the national law. It can also be said that everyone left behind quite a bit of his ideas. I mention that the resource problem was a good question as to the definition of a natural currency, which is not a new debate. At this point, I believe that it would have been necessary to do much better. I believe it would have been most successful, considering that we are here in a short term and election ahead, to keep these suggestions. I have no doubt that the Council will complete a discussion of the details that remain, which this fine committee has failed in 54 meetings. I've got a lot of doubt about that. But I would have liked to see a real discussion about changing the constitution. We have an excellent suggestion. Council proposals assumed that the Council would accept a bill to change the constitution with a simple majority. Then there would be a national agreement. This was taken up by a management board. It was suggested that, after the Council has approved a bill to correct a constitution of at least 3/5 parts of a paid vote, it should be adopted under the vote of all the voters of the country for approval or resolution and the vote shall be held at the earliest six months and at the latest nine months after the approval of the bill at the World Council. If the bill is approved by a 3/5 part paid vote in a national vote, it should be confirmed by the President of Iceland within two weeks and considered to be a valid constitution. Because our project, i.e., was not discussed in the Committee. A priority that was to be the first stage was the four requirements that later became three. However, the provisional variation has been disputed, especially because of the high consent threshold. These two proposals, whether it is a proposal of the administration board, which in fact doesn't allow any thresholds except for them that if 5/6 parts of the Parliament agree to a constitution, the General Council can agree to cancel the National Convention - I believe it is reasonable that the nation always comes to the Constitution and refer them to this proposed administration and monitoring committee. I believe that if we were to borrow to change that law, we might be more likely to make further peace with him in order to make adjustments in the Constitution. I have to say, if you've gone into this job, I'm sure very often at the meetings of the Board of Directors, but I'm always sure that we're moving in the right direction, and this would give you something real, that I'm feeling very sorry that this work is going on. Second, I feel quite distant from the process that took place during the last term, becoming a huge debater, unfortunately, but is so important that we left the nation to choose representatives to form a new constitution, and then the council was to cover and build on that foundation. It is very sad that the process has not been completed, since it is quite remarkable. And it is quite remarkable that foreigners may find this more remarkable than Icelanders because this is a different route than has ever been. But she's understandable. I have often testified that in Norway, the Norwegian have somehow prospered to make changes. The Norwegian environmental principle was quoted as being good. There, the Norwegian Parliament has prospered to achieve a good change, but we always sit here and tapes, an ideal period after the election, I say, which has only been here nine years, which is becoming a very long time. This is where we sit and tape the same ride. I believe this committee could have finished much earlier. I think maybe we could have come to some solidarity about something. We could have taken advantage of adjustments. I don't think it's likely that when this bill is submitted by a short period of time, we will be able to work out what the Committee failed to process at all its meetings. I think it is very shocking that we are going to go back to the old arrangement of changing constitution and, as I say, put us back into the frames that have been such a chain to us in these matters for so long. I would have thought the best thing to do was to look around and try to negotiate a different law. Then I think, and it is clearly stated in the review of the management committee, that priorities are needed for the work started with the 2010 National Meeting where people were called to discuss the values to guide the constitution. That work needs to be prioritised in a new season. However, I feel that it is our choice whether we will continue to do so within the framework of the constitution or change it. This is what I have to say about the case in the 1st. And my time, in fact, is passing away. I could have talked a lot longer, but it's not available and maybe as well. Mr. President, we have a lot of problems with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u99	V.E.G. President. In the beginning, I want to know that there is one problem. Senators Bjarnadóttir and Katrín Jakobsdóttir Jacobd, I served at the Commission of Prime Ministers, who arranged for the proposal based on by the prime minister here. True, many were found, and there were many challenges. But I would like to see that, in every detail, the cooperation with the Committee was good and even better than in some of these committees that I have been around in recent years. I also believe, so that it is said, that with them at all ends and ends that appear in the suggestion text, we have a significant degree of effort by reaching a common understanding of the points involved. If I compare this with any other work I've done in my life, I think there are several different viewpoints in these matters that have come closer to understanding than we have likely seen before. Here, first speakers have followed the background. I'm just going to step in on her, too. Of course, in order to say this during the discussion, we can say two different main points in a discussion of how the Constitution changes in recent years. On the one hand, some political powers have been loudly demanding drastic changes in the constitution. Me and my squad have never agreeed with that. So there's been some disagreement on the approach. That disagreement was often expressed during the last terms and early history, but it was a significant failure during the last term. Of course, there are members of this ideal period of service from different camps in this regard. Some have felt that radical constitutions were needed while others felt that the need for constitutions might be limited, even though there might be some openings and putting new features into the constitution and after events, to discuss changes in existing standards. This is not the case with different viewpoints. Those who have spoken to radical political records often say, and frequently, as the last speaker, said. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, said that old - fashioned politics cannot handle this project. That's her attitude. The shape in the constitution of the current board has not facilitated radical constitutions, we can say. Some put it this way: A general body is unable to handle this assignment. When I hear people say it, I sometimes think, " Meinar doesn't just say that the Council isn't ready to make the changes I want to make? ' Isn't that the way it is? Is that not what is really meant? When it comes to saying, The Council is unable to handle the project, you mean: The greater part of the Generals is not ready to finish the matter as I would like it to be. I think it's a little basic to the thinking of many people who have this approach. I don't have to say what. Council members who have observed these discussions that, of course, the General has changed the constitution. This has changed the Constitution seven times in the Republic period, much since the sentence of the first constitution 1874, seven times in the republicry period. And, indeed, a majority of the articles in current constitutions have been changed at some point along the way. So, of course, the General could change the constitution. However, the demands that some have made have failed to make, that the radical changes and ideas that humans have made have gone through the council. Then a person pauses at the events during the last term, which can be said to have begun when Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's minority government began at the beginning of February 2009, with the support or neutrality of the forward party. It suggested that during the three months that the government would function until elections, there would be considerable changes in the constitution. There were both plans to make some changes in important issues and at the same time set up a administrative body that would then receive an overall review. It slipped into the sand, of course. I thought that was a bad plan, and it just slipped into the sand. Of course, it was completely unrealistic, along with everything else that was being dealt with at that time, to go through the Constitution in the way suggested. However, in the process that began there began a series of shooting warfares in which the views of different states became somewhat or nothing. They wanted to make ultimatums, knock conclusions, and then come many times during the election period, where men in the greater part were going to make changes in their ideas almost no matter what the smaller part of the council, which was quite serious, wanted to be in the case. As other speakers have mentioned, the struggle was severe during the last term. I participated in it, and many of the people here, and may be said that front lines were shaped by the different fundamental ideas I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, different attitudes about whether or not there would be need for radical constitutions, as well as a different view of whether the collapse of the banking system in the autumn of 2008 would give some basis for a change of government. I confess that I never saw the logical context in that relationship, and there was nothing in the constitution that called out the bank collapse and nothing in the constitutions which resulted in that sequence. On the contrary, in the political turmoil that followed the collapse of the bank, the Constitution survived. On the basis of current constitutions, a political and democratic switch was possible by the end of January 2009. There was an election in accordance with the regulations of the Constitution. Four years later, there will be so much political exchange on the basis of the new constitution, so that in the aspects of the Constitution, the Constitution could be said to have failed. Of course, the fact that there was a major economic crisis following a bank crisis was not a cause for government change, but I have always suspected that it was rather so that those who had long been interested in radical governmental changes would want to use this opportunity to achieve their views because it was political unrest because they were upset and shocked. I have to say that men wanted to take advantage of situations in this way made me even harder to resist changes in my last term when they tried to run it through in this way. I'm not going to go to the details of the steps that were taken during the last term that many did not consider. Then, of course, you have to be aware that most of the steps of the council at that time, the national groups of green and convergence, far off with the support of the movement and some other individual cases, were controversial;, of course, there were many controversial steps being taken. I'd like to say from my point of view, there were many mistakes. To me, the dramatic experimentation performed by these men during the last term was not a successful, exemplary way but rather a hell to avoid. I will not belittle all the discussions that took place on these matters. In many cases, there was fertile discussion, interesting suggestions, and other such. But with the methodology that was used there, men in my opinion experimented with a change in Iceland's constitution without any need and without careful consideration and careful selection of the steps. My experience with this was that it was a series of mistakes and processes that actually ended in ditches at the end of that election period. After the 2013 election had become a new body of Congress, and a new government took over, there was among the projects that men were going to take part in continuing work on the change in constitution. Afterward, this committee was set up. There were a few, including, some of the expansive points in this work. that it would be natural and reasonable to resolve tasks so as not to get in the same trouble that humans do when they get too much into their arms, try to eat a piece of melon, so to speak. I remind you that the proposals of a administrative body referred to here included changes to so many 80 aspects of the present constitution and an additional 35 new ordinances, which you would say would be a very large mouth bite to swallow, even though the agreement on the proposals was more than it really was. Also, when people talk about milestones, there is evidence that they want to set priorities, and that is what we did at the beginning of the committee work. As noted in the case of humans, four measures were taken separately for the treatment. It could be said that it was a well - thought - out because it consisted of provisions that had been greatly under discussion in recent years, not just during the 20091⁄2013 period but, in some cases, much longer. Of course, they were trying to read a few focus groups, and they were trying to read in a public discussion. So the conclusion was that these four subjects were treated. But it is true that Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter mentioned earlier that at the beginning of the committee work, they imagined that there would be a continuation and other provisions would be discussed when the work was done. It was also an exit point, not only to the milestones and priorities, but to most people, the view that it was desirable to reach a conclusion that most people would agree with. The idea was to try to get a compromise, not necessarily to force the solution that I really wanted. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, but trying to look for some common surface, find a common surface to work from. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I believe we have come close to a lot in that subject and more than I have seen in the work of this kind of person that I have participated in. By doing so, I will not interfere with the fact that in the course of each of the principles under which there are very different viewpoints, especially at the outset. But by holding a small number of meetings and talking things over and over again, we may have come closer to a common conclusion than I would have believed at the outset. This required that everyone compromise their requirements, yield, and try to achieve a common understanding. I think most of the cases have been successful. I mentioned that men had been trying to speak from achieving suggestions that were most widely agreed, and that was on the basis that the committee pushed aside rather late in the process of a proposal for the future government, while some of the committee felt that this law could require more and more conflict than any other one there, which could lead to the mere halting of the process. Because they did not want to do so, it was decided to continue with the three men who felt that it was possible to make more peace. This happened, especially after the committee presented the suggestions now on the table in February of this year, that in certain political movements, there was a very severe opposition to the way that had gone. We noticed that these matters were handled directly in Porta's vote that the case was treated by Congress, as it was called. There were apparently differing opinions in that group, but the results of that vote could be understood as that of Porita's party or of its members, which paid the members of the council for the matter's political treatment. In the United States, there were also strong objections to these suggestions and the approach found there. If I recall correctly, at the beginning of March, a special meeting was held for a convention in which these matters were being discussed. Based on the news you had of the meeting, there was no formal agreement or conclusion about it, but it seemed to rise out of most speakers fiercely opposed to the fact that the Controversity would be involved in going that way. When that is the case, another group of people reason: If not all are included, do I not have to underline my unique position in some way? Of course, such thoughts must come to pass when proclamations are made that elections may be made quickly, as they did in spring when they saw that the season would be reduced by six, eight months, and the political life would really be all about to fit into election preparations and the conflict that comes with it. I've thought it happened during the day since spring and now until the autumn. It seems to me that to many in the politics, it is still a very prevalent view that, in terms of the political change, no value other than the whole or nothing. I feel strongly about it in the presentation of some of the candidates, the anti-continent parties. I've mentioned Marty and Conspiracy, I think it comes from the strongest of them, but it sounds to others, of course, that there is no other option than to take the package as he came from the Council of Control in its own time and take it through the council. Anything else is unacceptable. That's what I'd like to say, when people approach things that way, they're moving the case back into the course of a major conflict and shooting war that it took during the last term. [[Up front.]] This may be a typical attitude. There are teachings, accusations, and ultimatums that I don't think are likely to make any progress in these matters. I think and still believe that it is possible to achieve a solidarity, at least to make some changes in Iceland's constitution. Many people will feel that these changes are not radical enough and will criticize them on such grounds. I believe the change in constitution is not supposed to be radical in itself. I think the change in constitution should be very careful. I don't think that it should be so that a constitution is changed in a decisive way and possibly in opposition to much less that if more things take place at the council or among the people, people feel compelled to immediately change the constitution. I think that men are more likely to try to work together for a step-by-way policy-change, with caution, with the view that the constitution changes approved are not for single use, are not so much so that they will be turned back as political winds in society have changed. I think that approach is much more upbuilding and effective for all of us than the attitude of everything or nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u100	A respectable president. It is due to come to the end of the election season, and here is a suggestion for three changes to the constitution. A bright future has supported the change in the constitution. At our last annual meeting of the Birts Future, we agreed on this conclusion: A New Year's Summit of the Future emphasizes the importance of changing Iceland's Constitution in accordance with its country's will, as shown in the National Directive for the Constitutional Changes in the autumn of 2012. It is true that according to an unjudged status in Icelandic life in 2008, 2009, it was a heavy age for the public to revise the Constitution. The wave returned to the politics, which led to the establishment of a government law order, accomplished remarkable work, began at a national meeting where the public or public representatives were allowed to influence the process directly. In many ways, it is heavier than tears to see how the process somehow sinks on a cut below the end of the last terms. At the beginning of this election period, a decision was made to continue by appointing a Constitution committee from the council, but, in reality, to continue this work in a swamped form, in view of the revised revision that had passed by the Council of Government and had been given overruled in a national law that asked if we wanted to offer proposals of government legislation based on political change. I'm not gonna spend much of my time reviewing that sad story. Other members of the council have done well here, and they were at that time also. But we are at least here at the end of the election season, and here are some suggestions for three changes in Iceland's Constitution, which have been approved at the Council's Constitution and have been returned to the prime minister. While this may be a poor harvest, according to the recommendations made by a government body, it must be acknowledged that this is a step forward. I think it's a good thing to do, and in a short future, we're moving forward, but we're not stuck in freezing, because political temperatures have become rather impossible in the form of Congress and two Congress on either side of the election. The proposal here for principles on nature, suggestions on resource regulations in the constitution and finally a proposal for national pay is, of course, a big step forward. That's a good thing. None of these proposals are Bjart's proposal for the future, but we took that stand right after the election, although we were disappointed that the work should be done and the committee should only focus on four specific requirements, that we would support the process, and not leave us behind in the fact that it would be a good job and it would go the best. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 3.m. Smoke. In her speech, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was doing quite well, and other council members have gone through them, causing problems so that the work of the committee was done very slowly, especially in front of them, and it took only three years to reach it. At the end of the month, it was agreed to leave the fourth law on the release of power sources that are very important for Iceland in international cooperation and international cohesion, returning the three articles that were met together, although with the books that represented the Bjarts future. Hence, we think that these books did not include criticism, and this view, of course, is not being taken into account. I am very impressed that just a few months ago, the president of Iceland stood here and was appointed. In his introductory speech, he went to the Constitution, reviewing the Constitution, and what seemed to be a problem or inability of the politics to complete that assignment. I have to agree with the president of Iceland that it's kind of annoying that politics will not do this. Here are three new laws that are lacking in the Constitution that the political parties have now come together after all that has been going on, after a plot of government, after the much noise that was at the end of the last election. These provisions, which are put back into the Constitution, have not been established through politics, until now, through the General Assembly. It certainly expresses a great lack of political interference to revise the Constitution in a natural way. I'm not asking her to be inverted or anything else. In general, this will occur only after revolution or dramatic changes in countries that may be going from monarchies, dictatorships, or terrors to democracy or something like that. Self - improvement and a review of a constitution, as reflected in many ways in such brilliant proposals of government that also came with the two - thirds of those who participated in the 2012 National Bank, are not radical or impossible. On the contrary, they are quite possible. They're a lot of calls. And that politics do not allow that work to continue is a reproach for politics. I am now optimistic that I say, the best thing to do is to live. I still believe that the General Assembly, made up of public representatives, can attract and cause this work. I don't want to take it out of my hands at the Council just because the Allied is a disaster or not a growth in their work. I think we can grow up in those jobs. But it is obvious that we need to do better, and the public's involvement with national pay is a key there. We live in that Iceland's Constitution, which is certainly about a great set, and has been very good for us through the decades, there is no way national law on the decision of the Council, except when the President of Iceland is refusing to confirm it. It has been shown that the law is a means of security, as you say, but it completely puts authority in the hands of one person and does not allow the public to do so. Here is a suggestion, even though there is a disagreement on what the barriers are, to enable the public to demand, to ask, to ask for, and to insist on national legal matters. That alone is a huge step forward. The fact that such a warrant will be held in the Iceland Constitution that such an example will be set in the Iceland Constitution is of great value. Then I say that when we get a set of rules we haven't seen before and if it doesn't prove good enough, if it turns out impossible because of high thresholds, if there's no public possibility, which I really want to mean to underestimate, it's to try to set a case on the program, if it turns out that the faults are on it, then we should be in the palm of the hand, to fix it and move to a better hand. Something of nothing must be a positive step. Then I'd like to say that in a short future, we supported the order of the Commission and this work, this process, not because it fulfilled our dreams, but because we felt very important that the revision process, which began in 2009, was so well reflected in the management council and national law, 2012, despite the fact that it had been said by some people, had landed in a ditch, would not be knocked off, that it would be some kind of continuation, even though it was in this limited and slow image. We've been supporting this process all these three years and through this 50 failures and that I understand a very difficult meeting of the Committee, although the committee agreed to submit these proposals to the prime minister, which is a step forward. I want to keep it in order at the end of my talk that although these three principles are important, they are a new and important addition, although they may not be perfect and we know that the constitution is a living document, although her life may change more slowly than the lives of other laws, so things will continue to develop. There are very important things that are not addressed here, which are not met by agreement to review as soon as I would like to emphasize the need not to wait for another 20, 30 years or something before reviewing the Constitutions. It is to equal the value of national votes so that all the people of the country have equal force when it is chosen for a council as they are already chosen for the President of Iceland. I also think it is very important that national regulations be implemented so that the public will be able to take the initiative to establish a matter with full respect for us in the political process. I also believe that the arrangement proposed by governance is very important, i.e. that a constitution can be changed with the approval of the Generals and then referred directly to a national bill, but it is not necessary to wait for a vote between the elections. Sources of the release of power are also important issues that need to be resolved. We find it against the EEA, the Norwegians have a very complex process for it, but they have it, but we have nothing. Then it's important to explain the requirements of the President of Iceland. I'd like to keep this thing to the best of my life on this occasion. Although we're certainly on our way, it's so far, far from the end of our journey here. There is much to be considered. However, what is presented here is a step forward. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u101	President. I don't quite get it at this time in the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u102	The President can inform us that time is divided...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u103	There's only two speakers. We have 23 minutes, and that's why no one will ever tell you that I've only got eight minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u104	... has an explanation for that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u105	I'd just have no time, I know I've got 23 minutes and we'd have it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson split the time between us. President. I started to get involved in politics because there was a tremendous demand for society in the wake of the collapse that the public, the people, should be allowed to create a constitution for the people in the country. A general document has been written to the constitution that we received as a gift from the Danish king when we gained our independence. 70 years ago, those were words, today are the words. For more than 70 years, the General Assembly has tried to create a complete constitution, the Community Convention of the People, but today we look to the outcome of the fine committee given as a Senate bill from the prime minister to whom he alone is on. He's the only person with a name on that bill. After 50 meetings of the Commission, the result is three articles in a document that severely dilute what the nation said they wanted as a new constitution. The people were given to tell what they wanted. The General Assembly held a national bill on October 20, 2011, and then the General didn't have the ability or the ability to accept it. We have some of the greatest disgrace in our history, in the history of the Republic of Iceland, that the adviser of national law has been ignored. What do we get in return? Parliamentary bill in the last days of the General Assembly. This is a disgrace, Mr. President, a disregard for the people's will, a complete disgrace. I am perfectly offended by the fact that this is laid before us during the last days of the council. It was as good as achieving a common interaction with these suggestions. This bill alone is the prime minister. This may make it so clear to us that the Council is not able to carry out a collective constitution. So we are used to fighting for great interests at the General Assembly. But it was successful when the Constitution of the people, the new constitution, was made because it was a good consultation. Everyone had a chance to suggest a change. It didn't matter whether they were lawyers or people who've been involved in community affairs. They listened. And that is what this committee did not do. This committee worked with closed doors. And then when you finally got through--it was a big fight, I'll tell you why. Councilmen who had to fight so that the committee would no doubt send out their suggestions for review. Then she sent out her suggestions after her 50 meeting - and then she ignores them. There was no consideration for the reports that came to the committee. It is unlikely to invite us to do this during the last days of the council but to show, as I said earlier, that there is some other way we can get our Community treaty, that we can get a complete vision, a constitution in human language that everyone understands. It's not the way. It's just to say it. When we look at these suggestions, I must think: " I would have liked us to have taken the law of national pay and made it legal. How fantastic it would have been for this council to show that they take their place seriously, to show their trust in the nation to have binding dues without setting up such barriers that the Venice Committee claims they are indiscriminate. When I talk about thresholds, I'm talking about the barriers that the Prime Minister's Committee decided to set, the threshold that if a matter is brought forward by national law, very large joints are removed. We cannot bring up certain primes in a national law. If any group in the Icelandic community, the public, succeeds in making a national pay so that it is not likely that it would be difficult to accept or deny the matter. I feel very sad about this conclusion. Despite the enormously high threshold, these suggestions were rejected or denied, and there was an opportunity. That would have been a chance to change the constitution. Let us not forget that the biggest compromise that has ever taken place in this constitution was the failure of those in the administration board and that they were certainly not a single group. Truly, it was a great compromise, but it was successful. It also managed to keep the whole job open, so I think it's very important that we keep the new constitution alive and put it in a process so that the public is truly out of the country on why we need these changes. Many say that we don't have to change the human rights section, that's unnecessary, that it's just been done, 13 years ago, or something like that. However, when we're thinking about the constitution, we're thinking about what was called left, what the people were talking about, and that they want a community contract to see how we are reflected in our greatest laws as a nation. What we have in our hands is not a reflection of it. We'll never get a complete constitution if we're going to win it like this. How sad if it is the message we receive from the Independence Party and the Agency that they do not have enough or the courage to accept a very clear claim and request from the public in the country! It sucked to observe the two government groups - indeed, I was a member of a government class - miserable to watch how the forward group and the Independence Party conducted themselves at the end of the last term. It's just a different year now, just different stuff in the hall now than when it was carried out by an incredible indiscretion, incredibly shameful methods, of these groups that are now in the government. It was shameful to watch. Hv. paritaprevir He's got a Birgir's Ármannsson grinning around here. He was one of those leading the lead in shutting down the new constitution of the people whom the government law brought into Congress, and we finished. This was discussed for a year at the council. They responded to indications from both the academic community, the lawyers, the Venetian Committee, and many others. They listened. But the independence party and the forward party refused to listen. They just wanted to stop it, no matter what, just as they stopped these suggestions now and destroyed them. Of course, it's just a garbage can of the past, unfortunately. I know that many members of this committee really wanted to do their part. Fifty meetings were held, Mr. President. First thing. paritaprevir A Birgir - old Ármannsson spoke of the independence party not for radical change in a constitution that would be very much fun, beneficial, and useful to hear what radical changes they are making. What radical change is feared by the Independence Party? What is the radical change in this new constitution? I can't figure out what it is. If I had been allowed to write it alone, it would certainly be much more radical or more radical, since the waves are not radical. No, it may be said that the Independence Party pursued radical conservativeity by ensuring that there will be 70 years of serious control, not a new constitution, but a 70 - year arrangement. An amazing thing, by having this outside this chamber, by having it outside the councilmen, we made a great deal of peace. If we could have continued with the tone of reconciliation struck at a council, we would be in another place today. Then the General Assembly could not have been avoided, as has been repeated during this council. The general council was surmised when the then foreign minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson decided to give up trying to change the Senate arrangement and spread alone and unsatisfactory to Brussels, snooped the council, and stopped the business talks despite the fact that here is still a valid Senate resolution. It is still in effect, so confusing for people, whether they want to be involved or not, and for the people out in Brussels we were in contact with. No one knows what's going on, whether we're still in business or not, if it's a break. I would have thought the Independence Party wasn't in favor of government like this because it creates uncertainty, there's certainly no stability in such conduct. This is such a lack of respect for the Generals. Was it not enough disrespect when two ministers once decided to shun the Generals completely and become part of an invasion war? Was it not a strong lesson, or people don't give a shit about it. President? We should remember that there has been a compromise. A compromise has taken place. That's why I and Piratar and the movement I used to have always said that we should follow this compromise as closely as possible. That's what we're supposed to do. All of us here would like to do something else. We want to change a little bit, and if everyone's gonna change just a change, there's no new constitution. It is long time for the General Assembly to realize that, and those who wish to be here at work, that the people will set their supreme laws. Therefore, I believe it is very important that we senators submit a proposal here before this council runs out, ensuring that national pay will be binding without such restrictions made on the proposal for national pay. If the original proposal cannot be approved from the Council of Control, I believe that the General admits that it is not possible to complete the case as it is and that we are the sole step of putting it back in the hands of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u106	President would like to state due to a comment. The senator of a talk class earlier that the president had the information three years ago. Pirata's members shared the 23 minutes they could and did not know that this arrangement had changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u107	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to the Constitution of the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144, with subsequent changes, environmental protection, natural resources and national regulations. V.E.G. Prime Minister Ingi Jóhannsson, a member of the case, had a detailed background on this and was well aware of the reasons for, the conduct, order, and the work of the Constitution committee. I will discuss the bill as it happens and from the conclusion that a careful approach is being made and that much and wide cohesion has been achieved. But I've heard speeches since then. Parliamentaries, many of whom were members of the Constitution committee. This is evident in the question of why. Councilmen say that this may have been a case matter, and there have been discussions that are not presented in the bill. In a preliminary report of the European Commission from June 2014, a meeting at the Committee was met at the time for changes to take place in four matters that would be put in place and that would provide authority over the other elements that are listed in the National Remuneration Act on the basis of the signature of common voters, environmental protection and national property of natural resources. In the end, however, the exodus was not at peace. Thus, the bill is merely a guide to finding the changes involved in these three aspects. Perhaps it is a shame that we do not find here suggestions that promote authority in support of international cooperation. I'm going to let me mention the proposal now held before the Council on the EEA Treaty, and I'm going to implement the Icelandic right changes in the contracts involved in financial monitoring at the European Union's scene and include administrative applications due to the expeditation of authority to European monitoring agencies. That's what we're looking at when we're at it. State Department, as well as being sent to what? The management and monitoring committee for information on these administrative issues. I'm not gonna say anything about it here, I'm not gonna end up in the bill we're talking about. The three points agreed on by the Committee and the bill are in line with what was presented in February earlier, but with the books to provide specific viewpoints that some committees would like to have. So this is one bill, not three, as suggested by the basis for the use of 1 mg. Ninety-niner. The constitution. At the same time, the changes proposed are expected to follow the traditional course of two Parliaments, i.e. The approval of this council, the General election in between, and the approval of the newly elected council. I'm just going to review these three points as they are expressed materially in the bill. Environmental protection has over the years become more important to people's minds and awareness of the importance of protecting the environment and nature. Of course, responsible behavior and association with nature and the environment need to be relied on, but it is as if legislation must follow and give examples of responsibility and how to deal with the environment so that health and quality of life are insured, not just from living generations, but from offspring to the future. These views have been reflected in the international environment and in the areas in which we have been involved and involved. This will has been made clear, not just in public discussion, but in the coverage and work of the previous few years regarding the constitution. I am glad that peace and harmony are the means to achieve these values in the Icelandic legal process and to ensure the quality and health of the environment. I would like to examine this from the goals presented in the bill's report as well as from the Constitution report on page 5 of the bill. It presents the main options for questionmaking, how to achieve the desired goals. First of all: Should environmental guidelines underline the obligation of the public to ensure environmental interests or to include the right of the citizens to wholesome environment? The proposal in the bill actually means that both are made. Second: This is a requirement for public justice, i.e. A principle of free rights travel through uninhabited land and even stay for a short while? The bill contains such a provision, as well as a requirement, that natural conditions be handled well and that they respect the interests of landowners and other courts. Third, the question is: Should such a law mention the right of the citizens to access environmental information and take part in their decisions? It's a bill. It's a bill. Fourth: In such terms, about sustainableity, protection of national and environmental diversity and precautions? The bill answers yes. This is an important approach and complex work, but it includes baseline, protective care, responsibility, main purpose and content, as we consider it in relation to quality, rights, and the common good. The protection of nature and the environment has gained greater weight and attention in our society and internationally, and I can take my mind to heart. I believe, therefore, that it is important, most respected president that we make it possible to make changes in that situation. Of course, it is especially the thought displayed in the sustainable program that all decisions for protection and at the same time nature's use include long - term thinking for protection of the environment, such as. Renewable resource uses space and time to renew itself and thus evolve on its own terms for the innovation of future generations. It's getting sharp, I think, not just of respect, of general attitudes and exposure to nature, but of the policy and interpretation of laws. This bill also suggests that the public rights will be the Constitution. This may be the most significant view of the public court as part of social protection, i.e. that everyone should be able to enjoy the nature of the country. The obligation to walk well in the way of nature and to exercise extreme care so that nature is not lost and has no respect for landowners and other rights and shows full respect for their interests. The law also contains provisions that limit the public rights but contains sources to limit it, either because of land owner's interest or because of nature's protection. Of course, this is a complicated interaction between the public rights and personal rights, direct or indirect property, and I am not going out on legal matters here, but I know, a respectable president, that the committee did an enormously good and careful work when it came to absolution of matters of opinion. Then it is recognized that environmental quality and nature protection are closely related to the human rights and the importance of information sources and public options to take part in the decision-making of one's own environment. It's important to admit. A report using the bill on page 103/411 shows that this is very clear, as well as a number of other issues involved in environmental and environmental issues and assessments of its impact. I'll stop on this subject and plan to compromise other issues of the bill, which deal with natural resources and national regulations. The history of the natural resources directive in the constitution is long. It is traced back to 1962. We see, because we are rich in such resources, and we depend on them for our economic and economic life, it is important to ensure that such a law is in a constitution, with a clear definition of the structure and control of them. As noted earlier today, national law has made clear the will of the majority of the nation to that end. The aim of the resource directive has been proposed to set clear limits for the user's use and disposition of natural resources and rights for them. It should be emphasized that sustainable innovation would be laid down, that currency would be the principle, that sales or permanent supply of natural resources would be prohibited, and that innovations could not lead to ownership or irrefutable custody over them. The death toll report of the Member State shall be followed by the Commission's declaration of the Agency's work on the basis of the provision of resources, as set out in a similar manner as I was reviewing the environmental issues. I'm gonna go over it a little bit. The question is: How should the term national property be defined? Should it be determined by the State's ownership, or should it refer to the common interests of the nation, without a legal application of property? The bill suggests that the national property concept is used legally for certain common resources. In addition, resources in general in Iceland are also required to belong to the nation, which is a rather policy declaration without a certain legal principle. Second, are all resources to be reached by means of, or only to those who are not private? The bill contains measures that cover all resources, and it says that they should be used in a sustainable way and in the benefit of the country. However, the main ingredient of the provision is to match common resources. Third, shall the constitution allow the legislature to give the legislatures to change the resource control, so distribution permissions may become impaired? The bill has gone as far as it is believed that the legislator's leeway to resource management will be cut off and prevent the expectations of using documents that the state provides to its private resources will lead to permanent property privileges. However, this does not automatically lead to changes in current innovations. The task of the Lawgiver and the government must be assigned and replaced within the framework of a new law code. This is my opinion of what has been done for a long time and will probably continue, but it is therefore important to deal with the constitution of the changes proposed here. The concept is broad, so the subject is not simple or monotonous. If the bill is legalized, the legislation will have to be checked on resource-efficiency and is stated in a report and clearly by the legalisation of this bill, that the permanent supply of resources and land rights to the national property will be banned. The terms and conditions and arrangements for payment will be clearer than that in the hands of the legislatator to set clear rules for remuneration. I'll review it this way because I think it's very important that we establish a solid agreement on these regulations and progress. In view of the limitations of the time in this discussion, I'm going to be content with the final subject, national pay, which I still respect and sincerely hope we will succeed by completing the bill as it happens, for it was a great deal of debate, as it has been said in any case. Congress members, many of whom were members of the Committee on These Points, have made it clear that the nation's clear desire to make changes in that regard. From 2012 onward, I can give a witness. Thus, the objective of a new law of national pay under the national authority of the nation is to shape a course for voters to come directly to important decisions and thus to bring up national pay. The export will always be difficult and varied. I once again refer to a piece of paper in the bill I consider to be a problem and to explain it very carefully, and to offer a very good job, that I appreciate the Constitutional Committee. On page 30 of the bill, this review is very good. This was guided by the work of the Committee. But it's really shocking, and I agree with what's been said. Councilmen who have spoken before, that they have not reached this matter before the council. In view of the lack of time for election, however, it is important to achieve it before this election period is completed. I repeat, I celebrate the bill and the solidarity which were formed on these important issues to change our constitution. V.E.G. In his background, prime minister said that the committee set the priorities for matters of reconciliation and solidarity. It is strong that my knowledge of this matter and the good work that the committee has done in this process, and of course, it is based on work that has taken place in the constitution above. That's what I'm gonna tell you about this bill as it was revealed to me in 1st. ... morethanwhatisnot showninthe bill. I allow myself to be optimistic about the subject of the bill having sound base, and though there may be other factors, I do not consider it here for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u108	A respectable president. In the bill that is placed here by the highest power. The prime minister is presented with some sort of conclusion, a form of paper, from the work that has taken place during the present terms. This has been the subject of the discussion. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, stressed the importance of converting the Constitution following a crash was controversial, since the Constitution failed to cause a crash and, in effect, paid us to recover from a collapse. It is out of the question that the Constitution made it possible, in contrast to the Constitution of many of our neighbors, to replace the government and the holding of elections immediately after a collapse, to install a national fee that is now not possible in the constitutions of many of our neighbors and now to shorten the terms of an elected period when the government is back on a confidential issue. The Constitution, therefore, can be reasoned that there has been quite a wide range of indecisions and flexibility, a positive flexibility in this period of turmoil. Neither will there be debates that there is a widespread need and a plea for change to be made. From the EEA Convention's implementation we have agreed on in some way that there would be some way in which it would be necessary to put authority on the sale of power to the international organisations. For almost 20 years, we have also discussed the importance of a resource directive. Since 2012, this has been more of a national embezzlement. It is important not to ignore her simply as it is to avoid frequent blundering; it is important not to ignore her. She should not be ignored. It is clear after her that there is overwhelming support for certain points under consideration in these proposals, but neither is it that it was a universal agreement with a full constitution, but it is a compliment to the general hearing that the World Council would be submitted by a legal hearing. It was maintained on the part of the last government, although that was the case. I view politics as continuing by that authority. The preliminary provision at the end of the last terms was to ensure that it could be continued in this spirit. That has worked out for itself. I find two very important things to be done in the progress of the case during this terms. On the one hand, people missed the deadline, which was the original objective of all to respect, that the case could be taken along with the 2016 election. As soon as that goal failed, all pressure fell out of the case. The advantage of the provisional principle is that every constitution has so far been centered on some kind of black fishing game in the event of an election, because only a constitution can be changed into an election's success. I think our lesson from all of this is that we should create a new set of adjustments that will always make it possible to change the constitution, at any time during the term, because this clearly increases the pressure on our work. I also hate that we don't have a deed here. We will go to the next few weeks to initiate a new financial monitoring contract with the European Union, where we will dissuade enormous power for the EFTA monitoring agency that I believe will not be allowed to fit within the Constitutions as it is today. To tell you the truth, if the change we're about to make in the next few weeks doesn't call for such exodus, it will never be necessary. We can therefore march into the European Union without changing the constitution. It's just that way. If there's no need for a new expeditor to cover these huge financial changes, then there's no need to change the constitution, that's 2 g. little or no value but as a general policy declaration. A respectable president. So I think that because we have so limited changes in the constitution, it automatically calls for conflict. That is why, for a brief time, the law was good, so I have to say that I am deeply worried about the future. I don't quite see how we're going to work this thing out. I'm a fan of the media myself. I think the principle here is very good. I think, for example. that this is the very best national policy we've seen, and it's developed better and better in the interests of all who have come to it, I believe it is better than the regulations of a government body, and far better than the provision of the then prime minister and financial minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, and the Steingrímur of Sigfússon, the minority of government, just before election 2009. That will guide us in all of this. The national law also has to be forgotten, even though the angles were being placed on the thresholds, there will be a far greater national law than in any of the northern countries. I must say, just as it is, I am a great member of Congress, and I appreciate the basic concept of the North American uniformism based on strong council administrations that I have doubts about suddenly taking away the fundamental responsibility of the Congress. I don't think it takes 25% of the voters to reverse the will of the Council of Justice. On the contrary, I think that's a minimum, because otherwise people don't go to vote. If only a small part can reverse the decision of that council, why go to a vote to vote for an assembly? In substance, I think there's a lot of good things in this, but because the agency has been approved by the National Pay, it's very difficult for us to, since we lost the opportunity to put it together with the election, to follow the old practice of using it on this subject. The only law that could be able to resist in this regard is the national law itself because it is the Council to limit its own authority, hand over authority to the nation that the council has all the way to this day. I think it's important that we find some ways to get a discussion of a constitution working in Iceland that's different than just with the shouts and either a sense of duty to do nothing at all and to delay cases and drag men on their asses or by saying that they're not willing to do anything anymore if they don't get everything. I think the politics of this country will have to deal with this. I don't think there's any particular reference that politics can't handle something, and it's some political class that's completely different and worse than ordinary people. Now there is 30% renewal of members of every election, so that some ordinary people now seem to wash down here, and they become all the unbearable political class as they move in here across the threshold? Of course, those comments judge themselves. The problem we face is the same as we faced in our last terms. We missed the opportunity to change the constitution so that the Constitution can be entrusted with binding decisions to change the constitution. Hence, this was always allowed to become a recommendation. We never carefully updated the interaction between the legislation and the legislation of the legislature. No matter how much people talk about how much better everyone else is to make proposals for a constitution, it will not be overlooked that there are two consecutive members of the national Constitution. If two consecutive Parliaments fail to accept changes, they will not be realized. No matter what anybody thinks. We couldn't do this during the last term, that's why the situation came out. I'm worried about it in my next term, how you're going to proceed with this. I agree that we need to respect the results of the 2012 National Remuneration Act. I agree to respect the main points of continuing to work on the general review of the Constitution on the basis of a board of administration proposals, but I ask, "How is that supposed to happen? " Of course, there must be some conversation with the council here. It appears that half of the council members at the next council, very likely, will be new. So are we saying that they don't have anything to say about what the Constitution looks like? Of course not! Of course, they will have opinions on this. We can't know who's coming in here. They can have many opinions on the Constitution. They also need to find a way to reason on the suggestions offered by a government adviser because they were good. They were good introductorys. Then, a considerable amount of time has passed. Of course, there will be progress in these and other aspects of life. Different viewpoints are also natural. I find that sometimes in this discussion, people forget that the biggest victories in the history of the last few decades have taken place, and they forget that we have to, like all other things, to bring together the wisdom of the public, the sense of justice of the nation as well as the counsel of professionals. We'll never make it. We can beat ourselves to the chests, scream, growl, howl, howl, howl with each other as we want to, but that's how it must be. Two consecutive election sessions will need to change the constitution. We need to find a way to help those councilmen who sit here in chairs after election in the autumn to achieve this matter and continue to do it for their benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u109	Mr. President. This has been an interesting discussion today about this very controversial case that has been going on for a long time. First, we might ask, " How is the matter made up? ' The prime minister puts it as a Senate bill, not as a national bill. It promotes that there is not a agreement on the subject of the minister's wishes to be given in his speech and in this bill. These parapolitic ideas, which he says the bill is a physical harmony, are not really a real conclusion. The suggestions given on their part were the first of three initials. It would have been better, in my opinion, that it had come in this way rather than in one matter. It would also have been easier for voters to take sides with them in a national bill. I think this suggests that the Minister has just doubts that the situation will end. As has been attributed to this case for many years. Of course, it grew after the collapse, where the Constitution was required to be changed, and the feeling of many is that the council and its decision making are not functioning, as it were, on the part of those who believe that it is in much trouble, until a new constitution is accepted. It is also interesting in the context of this approach, as discussed here, when the Council of Government is set up and then the 25 individuals who ended in the Council of Control, who succeeded the Council of Government. Those who were interested in the work of this made themselves available, and there was a great imbalance, a sixth hundred, of which nearly 400 were male and 160 interested women. As we know, there were only three representatives of the country that arrived. It was mostly people who had been known in public places. It may be said that there is nothing to consider, but when we think of the gender exchange, 40% of women, and 60% of men, it is claimed to have been cross-section by the nation - I, at least, of course. It's hard to say that it was. But there's probably a difference of opinion. I think it's a good reason for us to consider the following questions. This has only been the case with how we see the rest. The work that was very important and was done during the last assembly has been considered. I think it's very specific, and I'm sorry that when the deadline to the vote in which the mind was about to proceed with the election came out a little bit of the bottom of the case. That should have been a reminder to us, and as noted in the case of the day. The head of the left green could have been finished by the committee much sooner if people had general authority and had really been interested in getting things off. It was attributed to the number of changes that were made to members of the committee and to things that were missing the job and other things that need not be repeated. I have to agree with what has happened when the council is spoken of as being unable to handle something. I cannot agree that the council is incapable of doing so. It's just ordinary people at the council, and there's been a lot of renewal here. What I've found difficult is that there are always two council members who have to agree. Granted, changing the constitution should not be too simple, but it should be possible without taking an extended period of time. I thought to myself: " Is that, for example? Would the nation want us to change the Constitution without any elections? Don't they have to be between each other? Is there any other way we can make this up? Now it is time for us to think about how we will finish this process. What are we going to pursue together, and where are we really going to go and develop our democracy? How should we make this up? I think we should build on the suggestions and all the work being done. I think it would be wise, however, to appoint some kind of project management with the arrival of the council and the university. Now I'm wondering out loud how we could do this because I feel that this is what lies ahead, even though we can keep talking in this public talk about these matters. I think we need some kind of national meeting and going out into the districts and having international meetings with people and looking for viewpoints to withdraw into this work as this project manager with the coming of the council or something like that would try to win. At least we need to draw the people back on this before we finally put the matter to the nation. It is my opinion that due to the proposal made by the council, there should always be a national hearing. I think most of us must agree on that. We can do these things differently than we have done by sharing in the public and writing our community covenant. I also have to agree with the president of Iceland when he was put in office, saying something about the fact that compromises and conditions would be worth us taking them or that we would be worth accepting any of these changes. I think that's one of the things we need to face. To me, the Constitution doesn't have to be tolerated. However, there are larger and important chapters that we need to consider to make revised. This is where national regulations and human rights and resources have been traced. This is and becomes a stumbling block because there are different views, even though we're going to have a national meeting, we'd get different ideas. [[The president calls.]] But it's our job to process them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u110	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to the administration law that's been working on for almost three years. I am one of the general members of the council who worked to do that. There have been over 50 meetings, much talking, and sprayed, and thrown in between. I can't agree with that as any of them. People before me have claimed that this is no result. I believe that what we have here, three new articles that we agreed on, was quite important. First of all, it's 79. gr. which is about Iceland's nature and responsibility for the protection of nature and man's right to wholesome environment, it's all very important in view of the time we are living in. It's important that we protect our natural world for the future for young generations. I'll get back to it. Then there's 80 st. involved in natural resources in Iceland and whether they belong to the Icelandic nation and how to treat them with natural resources. I have found that when we discuss the natural resources of the country, people look primarily at the fish that swim in the water. But natural resources are so much more than fish are in the sea. There are rights to water, the clean and wholesome air, the use of the vegetation of the earth, the shared uses, etc. The conclusion we set here is that there should normally be a legal fee for the use of natural resources and national rights. It is now that I expect those who said this in Icelandic, by permission of the President, to be able to go through our country and enjoy it. The third article, 81. See, it's the law of national law. I can accept that among us who were engaged in this work, there was a very large section of the problem of the proportion of people who could call for a national fee. For my part, I thought it should be higher than lower. However, the conclusion, despite differences in the meaning of certain kinds, was that 15% of the people could call for a national fee. However, it is stated in the book of our special representative from the Independence Party that we believe that the main characteristic of our administration is representative democracy and Congress. It is contrary to the factors if we have the open possibility for national payment that national pay can really be called at any given time. One thing and another has been discussed. I'm not going to go trace a story here, but I still wanted to come into the nature protection and the environment. As I mentioned earlier, there have been significant changes in people's attitudes toward nature and environmental health. Humans are increasingly aware that our nature is a complex system that sustains life and guarantees its development. Hence, the overall outlook and respect for this interaction are more and more emphasised. That is one of our obligation. We are under obligation to protect nature in view of the fact that future generations will inherit the land, and they certainly have the right to live here and in our beautiful world. One factor on the environmental principle is that everyone should enjoy wholesome environment. It is a point that people have wondered what they mean. According to the bill, by permission of the President, it says: The law on wholesome environment is not intended to provide greater protection than can be drawn from the basic principle of the right to life and the 71nd par. The Constitution on privacy, home, and family, as they will be explained by international commitments. Of course, there have been a number of rules to ensure wholesome environments, such as pollution laws, loyalty and pollution practices, and the handling of wastes and rules for water protection and planning. All of this is important and is part of our protection of nature. I believe getting a set of these is a great improvement. However, I wanted to include only what has been discussed in the preceding discussion. I told you before I couldn't say that this work was in vain. Absolutely not. It's a phase-winning thing like a sledgehammer. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason said. I'm gonna let myself compliment him on a lot of what happened to him. I felt that he had a reasonable, reasonable discussion and, in a very reasonable way, wanted to thank him for it. Today, the Constitution is a basic law for the country. Any changes in the constitution will require review of all the laws associated with it. That would be quite a job if we were going to drop the constitution, as ideas have been, and then we were in our last term. It has been said that there has been an old - fashioned political process in the process of changing the constitution and being referred to a governmental body, as it were, that it has been successful. It is absolutely true that during the last term, there were good things to be achieved by the proposals of a government recommendation. But not everything was good there. Sometimes it is said that the people wanted, the people accepted, or the nation agreed to a political change in national law during the last term. I just began to look at this because I participated in this national pay, and when you consider the six questions presented to the nation at that time, 20 October 2012, is the first question: Did you know that the proposals of governance will be presented to a fundamental bill for a new constitution? There were 48% of the voters in the country who participated in the national pay or under half of the nation. There were 64% of those 48% who said yes to that question. This means that at the time, less than 31% of the people agree that the proposals of a judicial body will be proposed as a basis for a new constitution. I think it's a great opportunity to talk about the people's will, as if it were 100% of the people or 80% of the people. There is no acceptable participation in such important elections in my opinion, less than 50%. There are less than 31% who say yes to that question. I like to draw this out, because one of the claims is that the people, with a large staff, wanted it. This is what the people wanted. If less than 31% is the nation, with a large staff, we certainly have minority democracy. That may not be what people look at. I would also like to agree with what has already been said that the Council is unable to handle this project, and certainly there are conflicting opinions in the Council, but I agree with that. paritaprevir A Birgir son of an Ármannsson said: "When people say that, they may be talking about the fact that the Council did not accept exactly what was right. A senator wanted to happen. But I'm really glad this bill shows up here. I think it's a phase victory for us. At this point, I'd like to thank the senators and the forward officials, who were not members of the Parliament who worked with us for this work. It did take a long time, and certainly it was rolled around with various stones, but I think it is also necessary. No one can bring in all that he has. We all have to back some of it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u111	Mr. President. Once again, we will discuss the blessed constitution at the General Assembly. In effect, she was discussed quite a bit during the World Congress over the years. Many things have happened, as some have come in, and seven changes have been made in the Constitution of the Republic Institute, which is, as it were, fine. The Council has been determined to completely change the constitution. As for today's bill, I wondered about the timing of it, to bring it on September 1, when the Senate ends, although no one can say when it ends here in the fall. But I had wanted to see it a lot earlier. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Óttar Proppér, chairman of the Bjarts'future, was not an impossibility for the committee appointed. When she was appointed at her time, two masks ran upon me when I saw who was appointed as her chairman. That mark, Dr. Sigurður Líndal Law Professor, has always said that he is against all changes in the constitution. It was a little strange to know that he had been made president of this committee. It made me think that another time, the government groups, the forwarding party, and the Independence Party were going on some mission without meaning of anything. I'm saying this because they're calling this man an Chairman. Then it changed in 2014, and Sigurður Líndal said that he had no faith that anything would come out of this committee because he felt that there was no interest in changing the constitution. It was shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir In the past, Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, who has been placed in more than one and more than two constitutions, is not endorsed as the constitution is being changed. In the past, it has been mostly those who have stopped all work making new constitutions. I'm going to say, however, that I thought that the work that has been undertaken during the last term to produce a new constitution for us Icelanders was one of the most impressive initiatives that any government has set in motion. There she met the public's will, requiring many meetings in the East and elsewhere, that a new constitution would be produced. Not only did she meet that request but she also fulfilled the request and promises made to the nation since the Constitution was first adopted in 1944. As I read and heard about it, it was clear that the constitution that was then approved should be temporary. The work of building new ones was to begin at the first opportunity. I think you're right. If you look at old conclusions from the Agency's central conferences and other factors, you will find that a new constitution was to be built. I made fun of myself that I printed the cover of Degi of Akureyri since 1946, published 70 years ago. It says, by permission of the president: A special administrative body puts in the republic a new constitution. That was the cover of a day 70 years ago. ◯Hermann Jónasson brings the Constitution bill to the General Assembly. We're moving to the highest. Prime Minister of the Future Party today Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, new constitution bill. I'll continue reading, with President's permission: ▪Hermann Jónasson, chairman of the Annexe Party, is moving to the General Constitution for the election of a special administrative body, setting up a new constitution for the Republic. This process will be chosen in special elections and it has completed its work by Marzlál 1948. The new constitution will then be provided with a national payment. As we know, then, the government parties are solemnly praised in the government covenants, to the Constitutions, etc. it should be submitted to the council that is now finishing. There has been no scruples, and recently the chairman of the Board of Directors, Gísli Sveinsson, albeit in a press interview, put the matter to sleep. Here goes the room anyway. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. She also mentioned in her talk earlier that we are always getting into the same routine. You wonder if it is. It can certainly be debated whether the time framed by the Government Council was allowed to produce a new constitution was not too difficult and has many pointed out that it was. Scholars have, for example. pointed out that making a new constitution requires time to think deeply about how we want it to be. Give us time to think carefully about our values, our ideals, and our basics and not to worry about anything. How important it is that we put forth effort to discover and shape the customs and laws that are acceptable to us as a nation, that the need for a new constitution stems from our desire to live in the nations as a mature, moral, and self - righteous nation! Now I'm no expert on the constitution of the constitution, no more than anyone else, except perhaps even the shortest. paritaprevir A Birgir-old Ármannsson who has been in it for so long. But I have a heartfelt desire that as a nation, we can build a new constitution into which the greatest reconciliation is made. The Constitution is the national covenant with itself. There is a principle of society that must be in the way that all intelligent people who can vote for them will have the opportunity to do so. That is a key to my mind and to our future. It is really unacceptable to write a constitution that contradicts, and people protest here at council because we place the natural law. Sadly, though, one group appears to be more opposed to this. You may also wonder, " Some have said, " It's only necessary to accept a new constitution without getting the independent party involved. ' I think it's unacceptable. It's the largest political party in the country. It's been a long time. It's very important, I think, for democracy in this country that the largest political party in the country is comfortable with that. Toward the end of the last election period, the Specialist Party and the Independence Party fought hard against the new constitution adopted by the government board and the nation approved by national votes. It was surprising that the advance party was so fighting against that bill. If we look, for example. The campaign campaign of the Agency for elections in 2009 gave candidates a special video in which they told them how to build a new constitution. It was basically done exactly as it was done. What changed their lives? This describes a measure of Icelandic politics. They're just against it because they didn't agree. Still, they made a promise to their voters and a special video that was described exactly how to do a new constitution, and it was almost entirely applied in a administrative body. But it's just as it is. After the last election, it became evident that these two groups received a greater part at a council that fought fiercely against the Constitution. Then you begin to wonder, " Is this the greatest desire among the people to change the Constitution? ' That's a lot to wonder about. But there are so many things you don't understand. Those who fought for the change of constitution did not achieve any careers at the elections in 2013. Then another committee was assigned to try to resolve these issues. The result of the work of that committee is the proposed bill today. It is supported by me and us in our own future. There is improvement, however, and there is an effort to change the constitution. That's better, e.g. is much better than existing. The national law is of utmost importance. It's the greatest democracy we can talk about, you know, that 15% of the voters can bring in a national bill. I think it would turn tremendously into politics if possible and would give politicians a lot more than they have today. We have shown that it is only a personal decision whether a national bill will be paid or not if signatures are collected. Another is when you wonder about our constitution that we are fighting as a nation, a proud, independent nation out here at the Top of the Sea - politicians fighting for national independence and sovereignty and beating their hearts for what a great nation we are - that they accept using a constitution produced at the beginning of the 19th century by Danas. I think it's weird. Why don't we do this ourselves? Are we not qualified? It doesn't seem to be. Some feel that they are not. I'm afraid we should agree with the bill, but I have no faith that there will be some progress at the council. It's way too short. Whatever the fate of this bill, I have the sincere hope that we will continue to work on a new constitution and use our work as a board of laws written in the last term as a model. It was approved. That's very good. Surely there are many things that need to be changed and done better than that, then, our constitution. I certainly hope that this will be the case with us in harmony. It is so vital, as in any other matter, to work together in harmony with these objects because they are important, the foundation of democracy in the country. That means more than this, such as the fishing system and the agricultural system and all that has been held in this nation's arguments for decades and never gives us anything. We just keep arguing about it. But the Constitution is an enormously important document, and it must be settled. I hope the Independence Party takes the rest of us in the country to change the constitution so we can be proud of it, because they always seem to be the threshold to get over. Sadly, that is a fact. As a result, we need to think that they are on our side like everyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u112	A respectable president. This is the most interesting and certainly a great reason to discuss it over and over again. I have to say, though, I like that this is a matter of assembly, where we can talk about it from time to time in the council and similar programs that do not offer much discussion or much time. I've heard here that some seem to consider these suggestions some form of compromise. I'm in general favor of compromise, not always, but sometimes. I'm certainly not against them by nature. There's a tendency in an Icelandic politician to insist on everything and nothing or anything and to think that once you get control, you just get to do what you want. Happily, that is not the case. But it's not a compromise. If this were a compromise, there would be all classes in the case. It's not. It's only the highest. A prime minister who puts this forth as a matter of Congress. That's because it's not a compromise. It's not about getting either everything or nothing like that. 9th. n.. No. Rather, it is a matter of showing respect for democracy, for the democratic practices, and in the chapters of experiments in former democratic acts, and of showing respect for the fact that now, especially after a collapse but by some men, and on the less part of the long before failure, the community has become more demand for democracies. I am well aware that the Constitution changes have often occurred at closed meetings of individuals, which, in turn, have been offered by the prefects'names to contribute to the General Assembly. But more is required now. A greater requirement for translucency, public bioavailability for information, discussion and data, as well as for increasing participation in decision-making by the public. This is to the requirement that most of the items that have worked during this terms have failed. The process here was closed. This is inevitable. While discussing these suggestions, the question was always the question: Where can we talk about this? Can we go to an open meeting and sound this up and have access to the Internet for material suggestions and try to find out what we would like to do? No. We couldn't because it was a closed process. And it created suspicion. Now I can say for myself that in the b-space involved in the resources, I usually find the expression "normal" amounts to a mere remuneration, as well as reasons for that. Many believe that there is a price to be paid and that there is a price to be paid for it. It is a discussion that is worth taking. But I'll tell you, a respectable president, what it was that stopped that discussion. There was a legitimate and logical suspicion about this process that made the moment the proposals were made, it caused lasers and smoke to come out of some room that the public had had had no access to, none. That won't do any more, Mr. Honorable President. No longer is there anything available based on modern requirements that should take place for our time in modern society, especially when we are so easily equipped with the technological advances that have taken place in recent years and decades. But speaking of democracy, I will only oversee the law of national pay, for it is most interesting and truly important to me, and not to diminish others, for the rest are also very important. It was told earlier that the restrictions put in there, 15% of the voters can call for a national bill for a bill of bill, and 25% of them have to refuse the law to be canceled, if the thresholds are made so that the process will not be abused. That 10% of the voters can call for an binding national bill for a bill approved by the Council is not an abuse of the process. It's just not. I'm going to keep a brief fistula here under the second series on how to misuse national law, since it can be done. However, that 10% of the voters call for binding national law that the Council has approved or that a Senate proposal or anything, is not a misuse. It's just a normal part of modern democracy. It is possible, easy, cheap, and there is no good reason not to. There's no legitimate reason to get into such terrible limitations. It doesn't have to be this way. It doesn't have to be 15%, it could be 10%. It doesn't have to be that 25% threshold. You can let him go, and actually he's a troublemaker. And that's why I'm having the most difficult part of the c-line of the bill. Although 15% of the rate of elections that have to deny law is bad, it's uncomfortable, I don't think it's too bad, it's not too bad that I'd give up on the case. However, there is also a protest threshold, as I call it, which is that 25% of all voters - not those who show up at an vote but all voters - have to protest the law, have to vote against them. While this may seem to be a very self - aware safety valve of some kind, it has an effect. He has a very hard side, not just incorrigibly, but incorrigibly. The effect is that this threshold makes a home - to - house decision. At that time, people take a stand by sitting at home. If they disagree that the matter will be agreed on by a national law or they will develop some form of opinion, they will benefit politically by minimizing the national pay. Encourage friends not to show up, even keeping them busy if they are in such a way, and there are plenty of such ones. Some categories of men should now know that. It's this 25% threshold that's making me most difficult for this case, it's so incompetent. There have been various and, in my opinion, legitimate concern about the recording of a new constitution based on a bill of administration. It's a big bag. There are many requirements, and it is likely to be discussed. That discussion was not allowed to run out during the last term. Change of administration and monitoring committee proposals - they were not even elected. The discussion has not run out. If they want to talk about it, let's talk about it. Instead of this process here. Return to an open, democratic process, a new government council, perhaps thought of it. Prepare a list of the problems that people believe to follow the bill of the Council of Government, and make a legal statement because of unnecessary changes in word. These are the problems that can be fixed. There could have been an open, democratic process to fix these processes. But that was not done. Instead, four laws were taken, sealed on a committee, and after more than 50 meetings in three years, even a meeting at a assembly about them cannot be met. In terms of favour, a provisional national law code was set up in a constitution, as we shall remember, was confirmed at the beginning of the season, with the 40% threshold of consent, which, in my opinion, is completely broken. But not even that way. There should not even be a national agreement on these regulations under the bill we address here. It is as if one uses every opportunity to alleviate all democratic influences. Why not just make it open? Why not make this democratic? If you want to get into a material discussion about everything else, you do. But it doesn't have to be that way. A respectable president. This is not a compromise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u113	A respectable president. This is a bill for a change in administrative law. It has been through many parts of the world today, and it seems who it is. I feel that senators have been somewhat trapped in the past, since the constitution has been approved to change their plans. Some have succeeded, even successful, for example. when the European Court of Human Rights was inserted into the Constitution in 1995. However, political parties are referred to as political parties, suggestions presented by certain members of Congress, and have not received a course, and it is used as evidence to support that the Constitution we live in is impossible. I don't quite understand this kind of compromise, especially in view of the amount of work that is put forward here, political reconciliation was achieved in a fairly political way. I mark it in a lawsuit at least one of Pirata's senators that they are very disagreeable. Then I'll point to a talk or two. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. But it has to be. It was said that little steps were better than no steps. It was always seen that the way that had gone during the last term, the enclosing of the constitution, and making proposals for the whole thing of change, did not come out systematically, for the reviews of the cases came in at the time for the management and monitoring committees, which were highly recommended, it would create a controlled uncertainty and turmoil in this country. I agree with that, because it was a whole process that was completely different. The Council's administration was to be taken into the administration council, but the Supreme Court sentenced them to the election for illegal purposes. The members were elected by the council and were beginning to think that these were the means by which the people had chosen them. But I'm not going to dwell on the past. I'm going to talk about the future. I'd like to make a special presentation of one of the proposals, paragraph b. ,which is the resource directive. At last, it is becoming reality that it is becoming a political agreement to enter a resource directive into the Constitution. It has been headed for a long time for the Agency to enter the constitution. At the same time, it has to be able to put a lot of energy into fulfilling the matter that I have presented to seven councils, that the natural resources of Iceland should be defined, defined as what they have to do with a complete list. I'm fully aware that it can change in the course of time. Resources can disappear and resources can come, such as when the macronula comes, a brand new resource. That's when this job has to be running all the time. Prior to the Constitution of the natural resources directive, this work must be completed. That is why, once again, I remind of my case, which I have submitted to every assembly since I took my place at the General Assembly. It did not get a course at the last government or the more political part, which is very strange, since greens have generally been identified with nature protection and are trying to protect the resources. It hasn't made it now either. I received word that this work has started a little bit at the Environment Ministry, as the Ministry of Environment and Resources has been called. It is most shocking when such fine cases are presented in the Senate, this is a good matter in my opinion and in my opinion of others, for the proposal is insurmounting that nature's resource directives go into the Constitution, that they are not to be taken for a walk in the council, despite the fact that these are members of Congress. But now it looks to a better source. The work's already started. They need work very hard, for in the end this must be in a way that cannot be questioned as to what the natural resources of the country are. This is also about the Constitution's equal rule. I have said in speech and in writing that it is most unfair that one profession using natural resources carries so much tax to the community and is left entirely excluded from paying resources to society. We have hot water, cold water, with all kinds of good things in our country, all kinds of natural resources that do not carry that price. The fishing system is built up, so we must set up a bounty fee for the use of the natural resource, the only natural resource price paid to the state fund. That is why it is a very important law, to keep equal between jobs. I'm very happy that this is finally going down in this bill. For the proposal to be a new 79. gr. I'm pretty doubtful about her. I think it's very open. It will be difficult to try how to interpret this and will likely create a high level of work for the next 10 to 15 years if it becomes a law, as it happened when the laws of human rights were adopted as a new constitution into the Constitution. It took 101⁄215 years for the Supreme Court to work on what the rights of human rights actually meant and on what people could do to their rights, etc. Everyone has to realize that when a constitution is changed, a great legal interpretation must be made, and it can be assumed that people will seek their rights in court based on the Constitution. I feel that this article, about the nature of Iceland and the wholesome environment, is traveling around the country and more, very open and not clear enough what is meant there. It's very beautiful on paper and there's a little sunshine over it, that's all you can say. But I think it's too open and it belongs in nature protection law, not a constitution, in my opinion. I've said and previously declared it, stressing the changing of nature protection laws, that such laws would enter the law of nature rather than bind it in this manner in a constitution. I'm sure this will be discussed in a board of administrations and monitoring committees. This matter will be passed on as in any case. Then we can see what the speakers will have to say, and the council will decide on this. It was time to set up an arrangement for national payment. As the Constitution is now built, only binding national requirements are given when the president refers matters to the nation. Others are national advisers. Then there is one other national law against when the council proposes to resign the President, and that is binding, and if the nation agrees with the council, the president is to step down immediately. It hasn't been tried. There are these national regulations in the Constitution already. This was very evident in the past, for as we have seen, the Constitution has proved to be a perfect test of time. It went into effect in 1944 and has survived the test of time, and it was not the constitution that resulted in a collapse of banks in 2008, as is often said in this discussion. It is quite remarkable that it is used as evidence in those who want to be transfused, very strange. There's a rather long chapter here on the National Remuneration. We attend the administration rights to the Norwegian states. This is to form a provision in the Danish constitution, where more than 30%, 1/3 members of the Parliament can require a national law on specific legal procedures. It has been tested only once in Denmark. For those who fear that the council will begin to abuse their position to direct matters to national pay, this is in such a way that it is not, I think, abused rather than in Denmark. What has to do with this is that a certain part of the nation can call for national pay. I know people are wise enough to believe that this will not be abused. We don't want to go where the Swiss are. It is a national law that often involves all kinds of subjects, cats, and dogs, and God knows what to do. I have strong faith in the people of this country that I don't believe it's going to be abused or used for political purposes. But you never say anything. You can't say anything about it. It is the desire of many to calm down only at the Assembly Hall and to work more organizedly. I support the reimbursement of the council so that the release of the council will be different and the council will be set up at the General Legal Office, which I have also spoken for seven years, to improve legalization. In the end, there is much pressure on the courts. You can even say that. There's no reason for this to be highly legalized. I can agree with others who have spoken that this case seems rather late because it is due to be held at the end of October, or rather, pardon me, a new election by the end of October. It's a big deal, and it's going to answer so many questions that although a management committee is well designed, I doubt that all the questions needed in the bill can be applied as a change to the constitution. The Constitution is the basic law. It's the foundation of everything. I wish for this success at the council, and I certainly hope that these steps can be adjusted in order to change the constitution. Much work has been done during this terms and has been done. Finally, the Constitution should be given to the citizens of the land just before the use of governmental power. I feel like it's sometimes forgotten. The Constitution is designed to protect citizens' rights in the country, not vice versa. That is why it is so important that the regulations of the constitution are clear and undisputed, so that the subjects know exactly their own rights. I'm a little bit short on the bill that it's clear, so that individuals know their rights, these proposals are very long compared to what is known in the current constitution. Each proposal is made into a number of teams. Each paragraph in each article raises questions. I had to make this statement in the end, a respectable president, but I know it's a deal. This is how I feel, and I believe that in legislation, there is less room for law than better and clearer than in doubt. I request a management and monitoring committee to conduct this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u114	A respectable president. The union has a clear and crystal clear policy that the change in the Constitution of the country must take place on the basis of the proposed work of the Council of Government and set out in the fall of 2012. Conspiracy is the proposal for a new constitution for the Icelandic Republic. We want the compromise that has subsequently developed under the direction of the current board of directors to fail to meet the expectations of reforms targeted by the constitution process. A paper with the bill says that there is a physical agreement between the administrative committees. This claim is best disputed, but in any case, it is misleading, at least in terms of the expression of the resource directive, as I further disputed. At the limited time I have in my speech to enter the bill materially, I want to focus on the environmental and resource rules. As suggested by a board of governance on the public information rights of the environment, it said: The public should be informed about the state of the environment and nature. Under this expression, the General Assembly and Commission of the winter began in 2012/2013, and on this basis the law was changed the same year to ensure that environmental initiatives were taken. The one standing here was the 1st apostle of that matter. Now, however, the wording of the law has been changed: The right of the public to be informed about the state of the environment should be reviewed by the law. Here, the public right has to get the intelligence and initiative of the government to provide them with a wide range of problems. More important, though, the directive for making decisions on Iceland's nature and environment should be based on environmental principles. It is also removed that by law it is possible for the public to prepare decisions affecting the environment and nature. A sustainable development has also been replaced by sustainable use, which is not the same as a much weaker wording. But then, it is the resource principle that has not only changed wording but also that the legal explanation in the report has greatly weakened the value of the provision. This is significant because in the face of trial in court, articles with primarys are used to explain the laws and interpretations of the laws. In October 2012, the proposals of a administrative body that were fundamental to the National Remuneration Act refer to the full price of the use of natural resources. Thus, in the case of the Council of Government and Observation Committee of the United States in 2012/2013, it was converted into a natural currency, though well supported by logical support. Now, however, the evidence has been weakened by a difference and a change in material things, as well as the words normally have now added to the sentence. In other words, a legal fee for the use of resources owned by the Icelandic State or national property, according to the European Union, shall normally be adopted. As a result of this change, the law will be meaningless, I believe. If this is the way the directive puts it, it is likely to be in the constitution of a corrupt set of laws that will never be used to do otherwise than prevent natural currency from being able to take place on resource use. It is stated in the report that this law will not alter the matter of fishing, for example. In other words: This changed law will not provide for the use of resources, neither of sea resources, nor of others. To make matters worse, the requirement for resource efficiency to exist at a reasonable time and that it must never lead to a possession, as it said. Instead, novelities never lead to permanent property rights, which can be understood as being able to lead to some kind of ownership rights. Then it is undefined what is meant by permanent rights. This isn't a benefit. As the report shows, a constitution of specific resources is being implemented long ago. It reaches back to 1962 when the first ideas in this subject are developed, but it is so in 1983 that a board of directors under the leadership of Dr. Gunnar Thoroddsens proposed a special resource directive for the 1983 Constitution. This work included determining whether all resources should be covered or only to those not privately owned, as mentioned in a report by the Committee. It was also found that the law was primarily dependent on common resources. In their own sense, a government council was in a similar direction when it suggested that national property possess all resources other than those not private property. However, now the wording of the resource directive has been converted to an existing bill, so instead of non-employable resources, resources and land rights that are not subject to private rights. On the contrary, this may seem to be an innocent change, but it is not, for it affects how to interpret the rights and rights of national resources, the payment requirement, and the decision for future innovations. Examples of non-employmentable resources, however, may still be dependent on private property rights, e.g. resources which are used by rural or state, e.g. hot flushes, possibly some of the operating areas and the earth's surfaces, as well. I understand the proposal of a administrative body so that, according to it, all social resources would have become national property if the wording of the Council had been accepted. Even resources which are new to rural, national, or administrative. According to the new bill, the very resources that are believed to be national property are reduced. After all, nationalisations, ocean - bottom resources, carbohydrates outside the grid, and the crops of fishing grounds remain. Water and ground temperature don't fall here. And everything is unclear with future questions about such resources as wind, sunlight, telecommunication rates, tides, and other things that are not taken into consideration in the bill or in the paper. There is much left in uncertainty with the changes in wording of this bill, which, in fact, creates more problems than they solve, and there is a check for a great amount of legalization of resource rights for future courts. I believe the Council's proposals in this regard were much clearer and more direct. Of course, this issue is a conflict of interest. The resources are of high economic importance for national preparation, and the resource use is of great importance for the future of economic development in Iceland, as it is rightly pointed out in a paper with the bill. It suggests that opinions have been changed on resource management. But it can also be noted that the common people have expressed their will in this regard. 83% of the voters reported that natural resources that were not privately owned would be declared national property. It was the wording that the nation was presented in that vote, and 83% of those who responded agreed to it. Finally, dignified president: We review the Constitutions not to pitch for one night. A constitution is not revised every ten years, such as other legislation. It takes a person's age to change a constitution, as it were. We are therefore under obligation to do this well and to be careful because what once enters the constitution will last a long, long time. Therefore, I feel that it is not right or advisable to end the case in the way that is suggested here that the reconciliation in this matter must be real, especially peace and respect for the Icelandic public, who has already let their opinion in light of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u115	V.E.G. President. That is fundamental. Ólína In the Þorvarðardóttir part of the Þorphindóttir, U.S.A., it said that when it comes to making plans to go to the Iceland Constitution, it takes a lot of work to do. In fact, this issue has been about for a very long time, and it has been our opinion of independence, and it is not surprising that, first of all, there is no need for a revolution on the Constitution, and secondly, it needs to be changed when they are made to work very carefully. It is a good thing to do, and it will be an advantage if they are given the opportunity to fry and take time. This is where we've been discussing a bill for a administrative law at the highest level. The prime minister laid out and is the product of commission work that has taken place all this terms. Today, there have been many brilliant discussions. There have been a wide range of subjects, but notably what methods are best in changing the requirements of the constitution. The disagreement here may be the number one, two, three: Is it needed, must undergo radical change in the constitution? What calls for such changes? And the other, how to keep the change in constitution? This has been discussed a great deal about the suggestions under consideration during the last term and was rooted in a board of governance. At the same time, several members of the Parliament have said that the Allied Council has been unable to change the constitution. I can never agree with that point of view. On the contrary, I think this fundamental duty of the Allied Congress to administer the Constitution is a duty that the General should not give up. I don't think it would be easy, and it would seem that the legislatured to the legislature itself if she concluded that it was to be accepted and given up without having that independent opinion, let alone that she had custody of such work. In this respect, I propose that between my viewpoints and my party and some others here, it is quite far and even impossible to reach an agreement if one intends to stay on the basis of ideas for which special devices will be created or selected separately and the Allied, the legislative Convention, disassociated in this way. The other is so far from the truth, and I suppose the Senate knows that the Independence Party didn't want to change anything. During the last term, there was a great disagreement about the command order, and there was indeed a great conflict, and in fact, the conflict we have been dealing with in the past some years, of course, lies at the spring moon of 2009 when the election was to be tolerated by the entire system of government, which became a loud and intense battle that we could better stop, with independence men, and is proud of it. This does not mean that we have not been ready to make some changes. That is why the Independence Party in this government community shared wholeheartedly in the commission work under consideration. The members of the Independence Party of the Board of Government have served there, the same representatives of this entire election period, setting up the 50 times mentioned. In fact, I find it very beneficial for men to have held long and many meetings to discuss this matter, for it is now done, to work hard, and then to bring in the produce. I think the points that have been on, and now each of us can have a little different opinion about them, that was exactly the three points discussed in this bill. These are the things that, in many ways, were the most urgent, and they are the ones we are discussing. So I am surprised that now, all of a sudden, only three articles are left behind in this work. I find that to be a very peculiar conclusion. I would have rather thought that a man's attitude should be seen because this is a phase. This is an appointment to a document with considerable criticism. This is a case that has developed. We'll see here, for example. one of the regulations, the resource directive, that has been in several forms, and here's one implementation of what I expect many more people to accept than what we've done so far. The bill includes compromises. Is it good that there are compromises when it comes to politics? Yeah, I think so. I believe that even if it takes a long time, there is a lot of work to be done that the political parties at the Council can take over the Constitution and determine how things should be maintained slowly. Here, for example. not to discuss one of the principles in the current constitution, many of us have been very interested in being changed, that is, 26. The constitution. For a long time, we independence have felt that this is the law of the constitution that needs to be revised. It was decided when this work began to focus on the factors below, perhaps later to look to other factors, it was said, but there was no agreement to go to 26. The independence party's representatives did not leave the table at that, but they continued to work on the committee for the suggestions that are fundamental in this discussion today. I can have opinions on individual articles in the bill. There are things here I would like to have in other ways. This is especially true of the law on national pay, thresholds, diculture thresholds, and such factors, the interaction of national agreements, and the role of the Generals, etc. However, I believe it is desirable for the bill to go to the management and monitoring committee, to be discussed and discussed, and it is expected to present the opinions of the individual members of Congress on these matters. If it is so that every time a constitution begins here at the council, the debate almost begins that they are completely organized into two corners and if they are not prepared to reach any conclusion, of course, there is nowhere to go. But I don't think there was any spirit at all at this job on the Committee. Of course, the progress of the matter is very vague. It is quite known that individual groups and individual representatives of the classes involved in this committee have comments and viewpoints around the matter, since they appear to be who and perhaps because at the end of the stretch, they fell from the train categories that suddenly wanted almost everything or nothing, which is, of course, a view that is in no way possible in this work here. It's a good tone, and I think it's good to be able to have some careful discussions on the Constitution between here and here and here. However, I feel that there is a considerable lack of soon - to - end agreement if people think that it is fundamental that it is always on the basis of a board of directors or outsiders. I reiterate the view that at the outset I think it would be almost humiliating to the Allied Council if they agreed that the Council could not handle it and could not cause the task that this is, I believe, is one of the basic duties of the council. Other than that, it seems impossible to say that the General has never made any changes to the Constitution. You can't listen to it here in a fight that the General has made a fight and can't finish, it's just not right. During the republican season, the Constitution has been changed substantially and in chapters. 1995 was a significant change in the constitution. It's pretended it wasn't anything. I'd also like to say, do they think that these changes came about by nothing? Do they think it just happened one, two and three? This needs to be done on a matter of thought. The point is: There is no need to change what is fine. You must recognize the benefits of the Icelandic Constitution. It is completely incomprehensible that humans have decided to set up some changes to the constitution after the fall of banks and that there was something wrong with the Constitution that caused the collapse of banks. That's absurd. On the contrary, the Constitution became the refuge that we needed in the aftereffects of the crash, if we can put it that way. There it provided us with shelter that proved extremely important. I find it surprising that here are members of Congress who argue that it has not been, and it should, in no way, write a constitution in human language which is best not to explain in any way and thus think that we could better pursue Iceland's interests. That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u116	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place today. It has been fine, objective, and fairly wide - wide. I told the beginning of my case that the revision of the Constitution had been controversial since the 2008 economic collapse, and since then some had claimed that it was necessary to complete the constitution to prevent such events from happening again. I also said that maybe there were others who felt that the Constitution had just shown its strength in the way that the collapse could be managed by posting e.g. An emergency law that met all the challenges it faced in the courts and all the way to the EFTA Court would thus have proved its true value. I also felt that there were many who, as a result, wanted to be more careful and careful about changing and making the least changes. I have often wondered that we in this hall tend to look at the Norwegian states as role models. We would like to have a similar system of government. We like to have economic conditions, and that's where we're going. We would like to have citizens of our countries and their citizens living in comparable ideals, welfare systems being comparable, and democracy comparable. That's why I've often been amazed that men want to overthrow the constitution here, put in ideas about a new administrative arrangement that isn't anywhere else in the North countries, and go into some sort of experiment. Therefore, I and my team have a more conservative approach to change the constitution and the route that has gone and we have presented today, these three suggestions, is exactly the way; to correct what needs to be corrected, to back up what needs to be changed, and to improve. I will admit that I listened attentively to the talks of those on the committee, and I was disappointed with the way they made the point that I considered to be on the viewpoint of a significant conflict subject and thought it would be unlikely that we would meet at the council. I want to believe it's possible. I want to believe that we want to avoidneouss. Here came the Venice Commission, a European specialist, when we were working in the last term and advised us to go slower. They also went to Finland and changed the result of what was going on there, slowing down the process. The changes were taken with caution. Norwegians have taken the Polish floor to revise the Constitution over a long period of time, take few rules, and turn them into as far as possible a reconciliation. They have, in fact, succeeded. with an arrangement to reimburse it at one assembly and to vote for it, as it is in our constitution. Why do they succeed, not us? It must be a challenge to us senators. I also listened to other members of Parliament giving talks. I thought it was a speech. paritaprevir Árnason's great - material - year - old son, Páll, speaks into our ability to reach a conclusion. I'd like to use the last seconds I have, Madam President, to mention the fact that not in this chair but in this place, on August 1, last August, in the introduction of a new president, he discussed this matter. He wrote about the change of law over time, and we politicians have to contend with it, and he believed that this was also true of our constitution, the Blood Treaty of society. He felt that the council could not answer the pleas of many statesmen and politicians, expressed wishes to classify certain changes and revisions, were a problem. So I quote him right: ◯ In this matter, I remind you of the value of achievement and compromise. I insist that this is a good suggestion for a case that has been very materially well controlled and I challenge the council, and now the board of directors, to consider it carefully with the objective of handling the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u117	A respectable president. It is most appropriate that we discuss national pay in the following discussion. The reason I wish for this discussion is the interpretation proposal for a number of missions to pay national law on the future of the airport. As a matter of fact, we at Porta's council discussed the matter and concluded that it would raise a very legitimate and legitimate question about why we did not want it, as we are the class that speaks most about national pay. But it is for the reasons that we have also made the most of our efforts in national pay, their nature and purpose, what they are and what they are not. This is not to say that national pay is a goal in itself. They're tools. A tool to achieve specific targets. The objective of this tool is first to increase and protect the decision - making rights of the country's voters. Second, they act as a security valve when the Council makes them some nigra that is not acceptable to voters. Third, promote politics and politicians in general. It is not the purpose of this tool to manipulate politicians, and it is not the purpose of the instrument that politicians have yet another secondary point of debate between themselves. Hence, it is important to know why national requirements are held, how they are conducted, and what the consequences are. Asking the people simply some question does not in itself lead to serving the goals mentioned earlier. The recently proposed interpretation proposal for the airport is an excellent way to demonstrate such faulty methods as these, although one thing is good, and the question of the subject is in itself respectable. However, the suggestion is a counselor. It is by nature a counselor, and many people want to mean that she needs to be a counselor. Actually, I don't completely agree with that. I think it could be replaced so that it would be binding, so that the Minister of the Interior could reimburse the city's area of Reykjavík. Then the council's vote would be based on the National Reunion Act. Of course, it would not be the same as simply taking away the airport or keeping it where it is for the future. But that would be a legal influence. It would be a interpretation that would be in force because of the nation's decision. It would change something, it would directly depend on what the people or voters said. However, the suggestion is now a poll. It simply provides no increased opportunity for politicians to decide which steps to take next. Of course, if it is a step to renegotiate the city, it is reasonable that it is simply part of the synonym and that its value will depend on how voters vote. It is my opinion that certain disrespect, which, of course, is not the intention of the movers, is to drag voters into our polls just so that we politicians have some sort of an extra point to end up in front of each other's arguments. If they are to exercise authority, they will have to go to the nation. It is not enough simply to ask it, and then later we wonder what it all meant, how we should interpret the results. We certainly have examples of such things from the very near past. It is not good that we then decide whether or not we will listen. Of course, we are only bound to our conviction in the Supreme Assembly under the constitution, rightly. And it is not even suggested in the board of administration that it will be anything different than that. It's stuck, and hopefully it'll stay forever. Second, the matter is more complicated than simply yes or no. The airport is more complicated than that. It's a collection of contracts, the planning power of Reykjavík, etc. And, of course, there are many possibilities. There are many possibilities, not simply that the course will be where it is or not. It's more complicated than that. Hence, the synopsis does not control that claim. Speaking of which, like what I said before, there will also be an interpretation analysis. Most important, where the suggestion comes from. As I say, national pay is not intended to allow politicians to use the nation as some pressure, to get involved with one another, but to take the initiative to come from the nation itself, whether it is protesting or calling for new ones. This is an overcommunicating principle and is reflected in the bill of the Council of Government rather than in the synonym I mentioned earlier. National pay can be abused. Democracy can be abused. That's why it's important that we keep this discussion to figure out what it is that we're trying to do, what our goals are trying to achieve, when we're trying to work out the democracy crisis of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u118	A respectable president. Actually, I didn't expect the inquiry to be about national pay for the airport. Rather, it was about the questions. A senator made it, and I choose to answer. The importance of national agreements is one of the issues that have been foremost in reviewing the Constitution over the past ten years. Increased power has increased in this discussion because Iceland's president has activated 26 g. The constitution, like the Icesave case. The Council of Justice also gave over 2011 radical suggestions on the right of both voters to impose national laws on the Council and on their right to set matters on the program, called national regulations. The right of voters to influence participation in European cooperation has also been high on both national and international levels, now in the last United Kingdom, where more of the voters voted with a report from the European Union. The government of Iceland is a representative democracy. Here, like most people in other European countries, there is an exception to national payment. Therefore, we need to take good note of the interaction between a representative democracy and an increasing direct democracy. The question, then, is even. how and in what steps can the direct democracy be expanded so that it will help to improve control and address the potential weaknesses of the representative democracy. To simplify the matter, we are faced with three basic options in this regard: At first, there would be no change in the constitution. National law would be passed by the Council if the President rejected them as it has been. No one is sure when the president will use his power at any given time. Furthermore, the government at any given time could arrange a national legal fee for certain major issues, such as we know. The 2012 experience sure scares. Participation was not consistent with expectations. In some ways, questions were adhered to and could be disputed as to the meaning of the conclusion. The timing of the National Remuneration was unattracted. Many of the senators felt that the greater part of that time was trying to put the Allied forces against a wall that rhymes with it. A senator was talking about earlier. It would be easy, then, to create a better frame of view over such a legal requirement that all classes will commit themselves to comply. Second, make minimum changes in the constitution, careful changes, primarily the implementation of the voter's authority. The suggestions we discussed earlier today are in that spirit. It gives voters the right to make a national agreement for new release laws. In a sense, there is a modern - day application of a president's court of speech that has become an intermediate source that may be asked if there is a need. As noted in some countries, e.g. Denmark and Slovenia are the defenders of the proposal that if law is to oblige the law, it is not enough for a simple more part but for the more part to reflect a minimum voter's minimum limit to a ballot. Thus it is avoided that a small group of voters stop law laws at the council because of the apathy of the masses. Third, you might want to go further and bring the voters the right to put a case on schedule, i.e. National regulations, and following events, national guidelines for such suggestions are motivated by national instruction. The Finns have recently added such provisions to their constitution, but so the council holds out whether or not the matter will be taken care of. However, since the 19th century, such a national law has been unknown in Switzerland, but only in the matter of administrative changes, not other laws. Other countries of the United States also have such rules in their own regulations, e.g. California, on this subject. This may be a major part of government democracy, since the political parties no longer have the same authority over the political agenda. I think the position of the head of the board that we discussed earlier is wise, to leave it at this time to make a suggestion for further implementation of the Empire and to take the initiative to stop legislation to voters. We will then have the opportunity to determine the effect of such changes on politics in the land before we continue to do so. So again I mention examples from Denmark, a third, has only used its language once, but the existence of this possibility is thought to have had a positive effect on the cooperation of members across large issues. In Slovenia, however, people saw themselves compelled to drag ashore and remove such rights from members of the council, for he was, in many cases, abused in favor of the government on the first occasion. No one knows what the future holds, but it is not likely that direct democracy will grow. I think it's necessary. However, we do not necessarily have to make a leap in that matter. Rather, we can move forward and introduce changes in stages. Here again, I remind you of the Venice Committee's opinion that came to us. In the same way, she advised them to reduce the changes they were going to make, and they withdrew.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u119	A respectable president. It is proper to agree with others who have spoken of the increase in national pay and in increasing numbers. But it is important to find their beds, so that they do not control the vital results we have obtained through the Congress and the Senate system. It must remain desirable for voters to be at the voter and to vote for members of the council. National pay too is so that it can be abused in a variety of ways. We hear a lot of words like that. that in the 2012 Constitution national law, the nation approved a new constitution. Instead of asking that question, they were asked if the people wanted a bill based on the proposals of a government body submitted to the General Assembly. The larger part of the government then ruled, bringing it to the council. The case, on the other hand, came to the fore. I believe that the decision of the nation continues to bind us in politics, but we are to be careful that when we draw conclusions from national pay, we do not often divulge or misrepresent the people's will. Another example of a dangerous national law is the U.S. National Association, where people were offered to choose to leave a certain situation without knowing what to do. People said yes to leaving a certain situation. However, there is now an enormous uncertainty in which Britain's government, but after three months of idleness, a mind - flow conference on what might be considered, with two absolute determination; that the nation should not decide where the rest will be, and that the council will not be submitted to each subsequent session. That's very contrary. If you offer people another table on a national scale, you will have to offer them a relative advantage. All of this is something that we need to learn from the Scriptures.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u120	V.E.G. President. I can say things like that. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason spoke earlier. You can see that although the idea of the nation's approach directly at national pay may sound good at first, it does not involve the solution to all problems. I agree with the view this has shown that the Congress and the Federal democracy will remain the foundation of our administration. However, I have several times during this terms, and the last described in my discussions that I thought it would be right to give our national law to more space and a stronger position in our constitution than at present. National pay is now expected in certain cases, i.e. if you have a President's revelation and in several specific points. That is why I have faithfully worked on the proposal that was discussed earlier today and is part of the highest bill. Prime Minister. Of course, that suggestion is not written exactly as I would like to have it. Rather, there is a compromise between different viewpoints. However, I believe that by offering an opportunity for binding national pay in those cases where it is specified, we would be taking a very important step in increasing the importance of the laws of democracy in the country, although by making certain demands both that there are widespread interest in the subject and an extensive requirement for such protocols to be carried out and as minimal support to the outcome to be binding. [[The president calls.]] In this regard, there are specific percentages that I think can be saved from both viewpoints, both those who fear that sitting at home will be more rhythmic, and those who fear that minor minor minorities can overpower the outcome if there is a general lack of interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u121	President wants to ask why. Parliaments to watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator who took the initiative in this discussion. It is a very urgent subject. I agree with a leader in that we need to be careful that national pay is like other things that tend to achieve the aims of a democracy, not the goals of itself. Therefore, it is urgent to maintain our large objective, that it must be our primary objective - and it is important for us who are in the hands of a representative democracy - to be guided every day to strengthen democracy and to be aware that all authority comes from the nation, directly or indirectly. It also does with respect to representative democracy. Some of the important factors have been brought about here. First, what attracts the initiative to pay nationally. Where should the power come from to make a requirement for national pay? It is, of course, something that has been over for decades. That the people themselves should be able to call for such things. And even the smaller parts of the council. There's something that's been working on now in proposals for a change in the constitution. Second, I want to mention the importance of explaining the advantages. Hv. A senator, an apocalyptic man, also reasoned on the importance of doing so. But I'd also like to say, if we're talking about strengthening the democracy over our heads, we'd have to be careful to strengthen the government too. Here we have a fixed and defined violation of the representative democracy, which is an imbalance in the voting rights between parts of the country, which is important to correct. It is also important to be careful about academic equality, for education is also a fundamental factor in a strong democracies society, as well as the strong media and the strong Allegorical Parliament. [[The president calls.]] All these factors should be equal when talking about strengthening democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u123	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that is important and especially appropriate that it takes place today in the following part of the donation and discussion of the highest proposals. Prime Minister on the matter of administrative changes. National pay is not the same as national pay. An apocalyptic came to understand that the nature of the ethnic agreements differs according to the purpose of their determination and who determines them. The experience from other countries is many times, as other members of the council have studied before me. Nevertheless, while Switzerland is a sort of national rage, direct democracies did not approve of any part of the country's votes for women until 1971. Thus, national pay is not an infallible tool. In California, there are many cases of difficult results that have bound the hands of the government in the wake of national crimes. But I still believe national laws are an important part of direct democracy. Direct democracy is the future. Increased direct involvement in democracy is accompanied by increased education, increased ability through technology, etc. That's when it's important to start the trip properly. I think it is very important that the Council can, under certain circumstances, refer very much to national pay or basics. I also feel very important that the public has some means of calling for a national or national bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, there should also be some kind of security valve in certain cases, such as when the Allied Council actually objected to its decision on the terms of EU negotiations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u124	The president would like to ask again kindly. Parliaments to watch out for deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u125	President. I want to thank you for your discussion. It is important that we take a close look at how we would like to conduct a national agreement and then what will happen to the national legal requirements. Thus, during the last term when the upcoming national law on involvement in the European Union was prepared, there were very clear rules on what was needed to ensure that national regulations are not only binding but also terms of national law to be carried out by the informed public. It's very important. Furthermore, it is very important that the questions are expressed in such a way that they are not leading. It is very important to keep in mind the points under consideration that need to follow the questions and, for example, that there is a neutral person who cares for such matters, e.g. The High School Social Science Institute, a National Institute of Morality, so that no part of the project can be cast into a shadow. When we talk, for example. about national pay on the airport took place in the city of Reykjavík, which seems to have been carried out. Then it is called by national law on the location of the airport, and you have to ask yourself: " If we are going to go to such national pay, where there is a certain populism going on at the council, we will have them, for example. To present a national bill to see if we want a Vault hall? Is it not a matter of concern to the whole nation? We must be careful not to let national laws turn around. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to wish that I could talk much more about this matter, but unfortunately, the time is running out, and I ask a respectable president to respect my schedule. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u126	The president's taking it into consideration, and he's just saying, okay, okay? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u127	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion. It was observed by a saying that it was prompted by a proposal to make a national agreement that the airport will remain in the Hydromosis. You might say, because the saying takes this point in particular, the proposal for a national pay may be followed by two. It follows because it is not clear at all that a product performed here in 2013 is a law. There have been some of the greatest jurists. It is also presented because a poll conducted in which 70,000 people declared their will that the airport would remain in the Hydromosis, and nothing was done with the view of the 70 thousand. I think it's strange, when Piratha steps up, the advocates of the legend, and finds it, and here is the Holy Cow of the Pirates, or whyhv. þm. Birgitta Jóndóttir. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I pray that I not be disturbed, Madam President, with what I am saying because I have been. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Madam President, I have to ask for more time, because this is a matter of man's interest. Senator [[It's better to be a holy cow.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u128	I can't believe this is so rude.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u129	President wants to ask why. Senators not having a conversation. Hv. Tenth. We're out of Suðvest. has the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, it is important not only to know where the requirements for national regulations come from but also to know that the questions asked are completely explained. Such clarity has often been lacking in polls held, not perhaps national fees. Therefore, the question presented in this specific proposal for interpretation is clear. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate my wish for that, Madam President, that I may make up for the time that had been interrupted. [[The president calls.]] However, I have to say, on the case provided here, my mind will be searched at the old Sturdy text, which says: "Just if it suits me. " [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u131	Given the occasion, the president would like to ask him why. Councilmen guard their words and do not call others back. Councilmen from the platform. That's something we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u132	V.E.G. President. As a result of what I was discussing back then, I want to emphasize that my approach to these materials is that we should take careful steps this way. The proposals of a governmental body that many have referred to are expected to produce more ways to produce national pay than the one listed here in a bill form, and so can be assumed for a decision, calling it the interaction of national law and Congress in certain cases. I think when we talk about such fundamental changes, we should go to the ground with caution. I believe that if the current recommendations are made, then the possibility of expansion could be considered at a later date. On the other hand, I believe that the arrangement to authorize in the Constitution of certain parts of the voter to require a national fee in certain cases of law that has been approved at the General Assembly with certain exceptions and of certain kinds of Congress protocols may be important and would actually be a better form than to hide only the President of Iceland to assess in the case of the law of the primary projector whether material should be a national agreement. Of course, it is as it has been noted that in our proposals as a member of the Constitution committee, 26 par. on the President's lawsuits fell, but I think it's possible for the public to insist on a formal and binding fee that would be 26 g. Probably zero in the stream of time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u133	Madam President. Most or all political groups, at least in word, have held that national crime is desirable and that it can promote democracy. However, I feel that it is important to remember that national pay is a means, not a goal, and that makes sense. The apocalyptic. In order for this to promote democracy or to lead us to conclusions on the issues, it is important how it is used. Thus, governments in many lands tend to use, not national pay, but to get the results they want for political purposes. Hence, it is all about who can present the question and interpret it. In order for the national law to be active as a democratic force, all people must agree with the word, otherwise the outcome will just be argumentative. We know a number of examples both at home and in foreign lands. In this country, the highest terms for national law have been discussed by the rights of the people to renounce the law of the Council. However, this is just a matter of responding to the Lawgiver's decisions rather than the public being able to set matters up. A model for this system can be found in Switzerland, where we have seen votes intended to arouse debates, such as a recent vote for civilian pay, but also votes that spring from the spirit of foreigners. So the method is neither good nor evil in itself; it is primarily an instrument.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u134	A respectable president. I think it's enough to answer that question. Tenth. We're out of Suðvest. " Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, because he went on a subject that is worth discussing in this discussion. I know I don't have enough time, and we don't have enough time to go through all this well enough, but where it's at. A senator gave 70 thousand signatures to support having a national law on this, so I say I support it. That's why I sent a letter to someone else. This is the suggestion I gave a version of what I would include, which dealt with national pay on the subject, but would be a project for which I would be assigned. The question of the motion as a matter of course. A senator speaks of the matter is clear. The answer, however, is not. There is a simple yes/no answer, and no more about who should do what next. If you're going to have some real influence on the airport, you have to do something, and we know what it is. The city needs to be re-created. So I would suggest that the suggestion include hiding the highest. Minister of the Interior to renegotiate the city and bind that decision to the nation's vote. It would be a national agreement that would have a real effect. It would be in this way a binding national agreement, and I will be happy to be a carer in such a language. Just to be clear. Hv. A senator also checked the 70 thousand signatures because I mentioned that it was important where the decision came from. It's because of these signatures I would have in my language, because I admit that there are 70 thousand signatures and the call is clear. The matter is certainly controversial. This is the same attitude that I have in supporting the National Remuneration on Member States. The call is very clear and has been made very clear many times. I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. Congress officials do not disagree with what we want to do but how we want to do it. I don't want to drag voters to a voter under the premise that they have power that they don't have. I want to give them the power. I want them to decide something. Not only is the question clear but the answer and the consequences of the answer need to be clear. [[The president calls.]] That's basic. Hv. The speaker concludes his talk by quoting a song text and saying: "Just when it's convenient. [[The president calls.]] No, a respectable president. It's the case with a national adviser, it's not a binding case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u135	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u136	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It has shed light on the matter from a variety of viewpoints, without a human agreement on something or anything, except that direct democracy is something we need to expand. The question is, Which way do we go to it? Indeed, national pay is used to do so. I feel that the discussion has gone a little wide. In Switzerland, as many have noted, there is a very long experience with such an arrangement. In recent years, the trend has been that national payments are in such a way that their results go to the government for processing. However, it is considered important for the questions to be clear so that the product derived from the National Remuneration is an adviser for the relevant programme to do what needs to be done. Because it has been mentioned at the city level of Reykjavík, it has been suggested to form a national judiciary for the city of Reykjavík, if the country's national level was to be there, in our discussion of the city's main organization. If the city of Reykjavík alone feels that it should have caused her to do despite the nation's stated will for another nation, I must think again in what way it is, so I think it would help with that kind of payment. But finally, I'd like to say that I think we're supposed to go on this march into an increase in national pay, direct democracy, careful. I think we should listen to the experts here who have spoken from the Feyn Islands Committee who advised us to be more careful than the last term, as well as the Finns, and develop the process to form what we suggested and the Constitution committee proposed earlier today, and we discussed in the bill for a change in the constitution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u137	A respectable president. I'm going to make another complaint I've made at the end of a special discussion. She's the fact that I find this discussion too short. There's an exceptionally bar in a bell before people can say what they have to say. I like this form of conversation at the General Assembly because it's always a part of the council and even though we don't always agree at the end, I always find the discussion interesting. They always shed a new light on the subject, and we get the opinion of so many. I think it's a very useful topic for discussion, I really love it, but I just feel that it's too much. I feel that at least it should double the speaking time that each had. A senator is moved to speak for this part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u138	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u139	Madam President. I'd like to say something with a what. Senator Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. This is one of the questions at the General Assembly that I like most because it's all part of the program, the discussion is usually arranged with a relatively short notice, so there are often ways to deal well with fancies, and this is going to be a lot more conversation than there can ever be in the conference's program for more monopolys from members and less reactions. So I'd like to direct it to Mrs. President to bring it to the Presidency Committee that this is something to bear in mind and possibly revise the General Assembly because I think it's a group that can truly be expected to become longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u140	The president will arrange for this to be made to the Presidency Committee, but he will follow the clear recommendations it makes in this chair until the time limit and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u141	President. I'd like to agree with my colleagues, but also point out that this week is coming to an end, and there is still no list of government classes on what matters to be completed at this council before it ends. We are rapidly moving toward the date of the end of a new assembly. It is a matter of complete exception, it is absolutely new that we are to begin a meeting during a new session that begins on the third day of September. I have to say, I've been very disappointed with the government parties because it seems that the promise that the President made would not be fulfilled that there would be a new work plan before this week had passed. I am becoming very nervous, and I wonder if it is my privilege to take advantage of the kind of work that has been shown here lately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u142	V.E.G. President. I will review the previous Committee's review of a greater part of the State Department for a proposal for action on the confirmation of Iceland and the European Union's agreement on agricultural trade. The committee has covered the matter extensively and has brought numerous visitors, including some. from a representative of Iceland's Department of State of State, the Department of Professional Affairs and Development, the National Institutes of Social Affairs, the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, the Association of Industrial Science, the Þórólfur Guðnason Surgeons, a representative of the Communication and Service, from the Food Institute, Karl G. Kristinsson, professor of Geologists and Human Geologists and Persons from the Contestation Board, the Auður of H. Ingólfsdóttir, Lector of the University of Bifröst, and Sigurður Jóhannsson, Environment and Resources. In addition, there were numerous reviews from various sources. Thus, the matter has been carefully tore into the committee, and various viewpoints have been reviewed and discussed in detail. The proposal suggests that the government will be committed to establish for Iceland a contract between Iceland and the European Union on the preparatory trades of agricultural products, in the form of paper exchange, and as a change in accounting 3 with the EEA Convention, signed on 17 September 2015. The contract is a business with non-aggressive agricultural and agricultural products and includes a significant increase in tax-free import sources as well as to which tolls are dropped on the number of toll numbers. The point is that there is something related to the bill for change in agricultural law, equipment law, and customs, 680. A case which is now being discussed on the job board, i.e. There was a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. To this day, although that bill covers quite a few more factors than the legalisations of the agreement. With the contract, there's also a deal. agreed on the two-way decline in business tolls between Iceland and the EU on over 340 toll files. Not all products were applied to these tolls in Iceland, so it is actually a deduction of tolls on more than 100 toll numbers previously carrying tolls. In addition, tolls on more than 20 toll numbers are negotiated. The contract also includes increased food for lamb meat, sausages, croaks, butter and beef to EU-lands, and new food for pork, poultry meat, processed lamb and cheese. The complaints will be introduced in step-by-steps over four years. Most categories have a complete mutuality in that there is a comparable appeal between parties. This does not apply, however, to lambs, skis, and butter where no dinner is provided for transport from Iceland to the EU on those products. There's a poultry, pork, sausages and cheese for import in Iceland higher than for moving from Iceland to the EU. Although there is an increase in the import parvota, it was noted at the Committee meeting that in many cases it was not an absolute increase from the current import. A similar demand is needed in order to import beef beyond the terms agreed on. The export of poultry is already similar to the total amount negotiated. The accompanying table in the Committee aluminium study shows that cheese is somewhat different as the contract assumes a considerably higher quota than the annual import of the previous year. The Commission received information that this amount is partly due to large spherical exports for the scurvy. Then there are 230 tons of cheese-marketed cheese, which was emphasized in the negotiations to increase the salutations in the groups that have been lacking in the country in order to soften Icelandic agriculture and to improve consumer options. Accordingly, 200 tons of poultry are identified as organic poultry and outbirds. Several criticisms were found that the contract expected mutuality to be the same amount of import from the EU countries to Iceland as from Iceland to the EU. It was noted that import from Iceland did not affect the large EU market where the proportion of total food intake was so low that it was detected. Similarly, the import from the EU could have a major impact on the market in Iceland, where the bids agreed would be nearly 20% of the total consumption. The Commission stated that the EU has not been prepared to look at a wide variety of markets ending treaties, such as these general agreements. As already noted, the import in many species has been similar to what is now agreed on and should be considered when discussing the potential impact of the contract in the Icelandic market. It was then noted to the Commission that the integrated import devices will not change for the next few years, but the total consumption of food has increased in recent years and will likely continue. If this trend continues, this demand will likely be met with increasing production within the country or with increasing import beyond the agreed host. For the Committee it was expressed concern that with the contract, national producers would be made to compete in a market where their competitiveness would be very shaken. In this way, the EU productions of agriculture would be made much higher than any other land. They could, at the power of their size, reduce the cost of production beyond what could be done in this country and the demands that they would meet less severe than in this country and thus not as costly as those of Icelandic farmers. Remarks on competitiveness came not only from the agriculture but also from national manufacturers who pointed out that although customs of the final goods were dropped, the raw materials they used for production were still toll. This would make the position of the local manufacturers far less inferior to their foreign rivals. There was a view that, due to small Icelandic markets, foreign producers from the EU could use market subs here and place market products far under price prices to secure market share shareholders. This could damage his domestic agriculture, and it could be a major challenge to his competitiveness. It was also noted that by deduction of tolls in the final product, the national manufacturer's competitiveness was surmounted as there was still a toll on the raw materials they used in their production. The majority feel that there will be no need for a business agreement to allow the competition of the Icelandic farm. It is also important that healthy competition is present. The majority of the rights to both Iceland and the European Union are to negotiate and commit to the International Business Agency's subsidiary contract. Thus, governments can respond to subs, come to them. It is important that consumer interests be guided by the preparation and payment of tax agreements. Clearly, their interests are an increase in competition, resulting in a greater variety of products and lower price prices. But it is also important to consider the other interests of consumers, e.g. That consumers know the origin of products and can make informed decisions about goods, safe lips, goods of goods, and public health. At that time, public interest in ecosystems and carbon footprints is being kept to a minimum. At a meeting of the Commission on the subject, it was observed that domestic production often results in less eco-efficiency of agricultural goods, and this does not add to the added pollution of the transport of the products between countries. However, it is not absolute. An eco-efficiency is formed by transport of food, fertilizer, overexploitation, etc. The commission stated that food security in Iceland was best in the world, but in many parts of Europe it was broken. Among those observed in the EU, infections were more frequent, agricultural antibiotic use was much more common, higher rates of bacteria resistant to antibiotics and less control than in the country. The majority claim that food safety rules are consistent in the European Economic Area. However, there are stricter regulations here regarding the Campyl bacteria and salmonella. In Europe there is not a general monitoring of the Campobacterial and there are only rules for two species of Salmonella. There are rules on all species of salmon in this country and if it is detected, e.g. In poultry are discarded from all birds of a fire group. In accordance with local regulations, antibiotic use in feed animals is prohibited and the use of antibiotics for growth promotion or for preventative disease. In spite of this, the Committee received information on a much higher rate of antibiotic resistance observed in Europe than in the country and that the situation was considerably worse in southern Europe. It was also found that the import of poultry and pork to this country was mostly from other Norwegian countries but that the antibacterial resistance situation there was similar to that in this country. There is resistance to antibiotics when bacteria have become resistant to antibiotics, including due to excessive use of antibiotics. If antibiotics were used in feed for prophylaxis or as a growth factor, the risk of antibiotic resistant bacteria in food is increased. A worldwide problem that has been described as one of the world's major health risks is antibiotic resistance. The World Health Organization has adopted the case, the United Nations will discuss it in the fall, it is considered by the EU, and Iceland, to appoint a panel with representatives of a DG, Food Institute, Health Ministry, and agrienvironmental services to look for ways to cope with antibiotic resistance in Iceland. It is important to seek ways to manage antibiotic resistance. The situation in Iceland is important to ensure healthy products for consumers. One way to achieve this goal is to ensure that comparable demands are made for imported products and domestic groups. One is that the public is educated and ensures that the product label is clear and legible. It is also essential that food monitoring is effective and effective and that this should be done not only in domestic agriculture but also in the import of market agriculture products. In April. appointed a marine road and agricultural minister to investigate the impact of customs agreements with the EU and new regulations from June 2016. The staff was aimed at evaluating the impact of the Convention on individual habitats, particularly pig and poultry, as well as assessing the costs and benefits of new regulations for the welfare of livestock. The group provided suggestions in eight teams that deal with many of the qualifications outlined in this opinion and that appeared to the committee, including on tollvota, the equal competitiveness of national authorities and the health requirements for agriculture. In view of the greater part of the employment board, these recommendations are agreed, which is considered in the following package by the Committee on State Affairs, and therefore directed directly to marine and agricultural ministers to thoroughly review them. This is how I draw it together, and this contract has been negotiated with the delinquency of customs and increased salutation of the import and export of agricultural products. In addition to the benefits of consumers, the contract has added products and lower prices to offer the opportunity for Icelandic producers. The commission gave different opinions about the agreement and its potential effects. The majority of the rights to the import equipment agreed on are very similar to the annual import in the past two years. However, it is necessary to ensure that there is no relief from food production in the country. Food security in Iceland has been high, infections are rare, and it is taken in quickly and well. It is important to ensure the food security of the Icelanders and to look to all aspects of the contract. In the case of measures related to the existing agreement, the greater part of this is the importance of not allowing them to interfere with competition but, rather, the market motivation to correct a guessable competitive position, creating the same level of Icelandic farming as the Icelandic manufacturers of foreign rivals. A few criticisms were made to the Committee that this agreement has not been made with the stakeholders and that the majority of the parties are obliged to agree with such agreements. This will help the greater part to the State Department to consider whether to transfer custody to the implementation of the customs contract for finance and economic services as well as to other customs laws. The majority suggest that the case be agreed. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson was away at the hearing. Under the majority of view, this publication is crumbling. The members of Hanna Kristjánsdóttir, the daughter of Kristun, Karl Garðarsson's son, Vilmur the Vilhjálmur of Bjarnason, Elín Hirst, Óttarr Proppé, Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson, and the one who stands here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u143	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator gave a talk about many things that were very informative. I specifically listened to her discussion of the use of antibiotics and the incidence of bacteria found in farms, bacteria resistant to antibiotics. I was kind of expecting the end of my life to hear that. A senator would be warning about this deal, but it was not. Here, a prominent speaker spoke for the case. But that's my question. Today a word of advice on domestic goods was given, and it appeared to each of us. I believe that there were many positive things there, and we in the left movement were supported by many things in those contracts and in those laws, sitting by another, but this is a situation we are very opposed to. Now my question is, To what extent does this matter hang? To what extent do they belong? A senator with the same package? Even if this issue is settled, could we not decide whether to take the dramatic step that would be approved by this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u144	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent answer and reason to answer these thoughts, Jonah the son of Jónasson did. Senator. He mentioned antibiotic use, risk of infection, and so on. We share that worry, me and you. Senator. We considered these aspects of the committee very carefully. We received specialists in that field, and we did so very well. However, our conclusion in the greater portion of the literature is that there is, of course, a real danger. But as mentioned in my speech earlier, there is a great deal of work now for the United Nations, the European Union, and our councils to cooperate with this major health crisis. With increasing import of food we need to go to, because there is a shortage of certain species in this country and we want consumers to get an increased product selection and a lower price, it's probably thinking in that direction, the key is a good surveillance to offset this danger. It's quite possible. We have shown it here so that we have very good institutions here on the land. We have good professionals. We are aware of this danger. We have these international organisations working on these international issues, this is not our special project here in Iceland, it's a threat all over the world, these food infections and food security. Yeah, I'm worried, I'm not gonna say no to it like a why. A senator, but I believe we can work with this and the interests are so great that it opposes the danger we face, certainly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u145	V.E.G. President. Fear all over the world, I think you're right. Then I ask myself, " Why in the world do I open up to that threat? ' Why do you want to open the full import port here in light of what was presented in the language of the day? A member of the United States who is concerned about what is happening in this regard, the diseases of the livestock that we eat? Hv. A senator referred to a discussion and studies conducted by the European Union, by the United Nations and other international institutions, referred to a similar discussion here at home in institutions that handle these matters. I've heard nothing better than the experts who have become familiar with these matters here, warning us to stay on this path, to open up more business with meat products especially, and then to naturalize all the professional opinions involved. Because the discussion is now taking place, research and work abroad and abroad, I would have thought that the most acceptable advantage would be that we stayed and didn't rush over, at least this autumn pass before we came to a conclusion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u146	Madam President. As I told you earlier, I have a great grasp of why. A senator would like to be careful with this matter. But the situation is as mentioned in my speech that we lack certain agricultural products and that we need to import them. Well, we're growing up, and we're getting more tourists and some things are missing. While we may be unable to provide such food for ourselves, it is likely that we can. It's also about people having a choice, that Icelanders have a choice, what they want to buy. If people have meat in their hands from Spain and Iceland, they should be able to evaluate which package they want to buy. But as we're opening up some products with this contract, we need to keep building under Icelandic production, increase national production so that the consumer has this choice I'm talking about, he doesn't necessarily need to buy the foreign product if he prefers to buy domestic production. I'd also like to answer that from the previous answer to the agreement that we agreed on earlier today and applied a vote for and then this toll agreement. Yeah, I think we need to settle these two cases together because these changes play together as the senator knows. There are different viewpoints, there are interests in different groups. I believe that by bringing these issues together, we are creating a greater level of peace and harmony in our agricultural system as regards the market choice of consumers, which is probably. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u147	Madam President. I'd like to carry on for a little while. Councilmen stopped the discussion about infections and disease prevention and the risks involved. That's what she said back there. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir that there's a key role in keeping track of things. As indicated in the majority of the pan-European contexts, infections are more frequent and agricultural antibiotic use are higher, and the rate of bacteria resistant to antibiotics is higher. I agree in itself that good surveillance is a key factor, although I disagree with the extent to which to import goods. But then it came to the committee that they simply needed money to take the vision. This has not been the means by which the funds needed for this monitoring can be maintained. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she is not concerned if this contract is approved but has not yet been provided with financial support for monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u148	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For a good answer and an interesting Þóra named Árnadóttir. As I said before, the key to developing the import is that we do not make less demands, either domestic or foreign production. Of course, we must continue to set quality standards for food that we will eat. I've been on the subject of public health issues and other things before. Monitoring is good and needs to be good, preferably better than it is now. Like what? A senator mentioned it needs more money, and we always come back and forth. Yeah, well, I'm worried, but I'm looking at this and other matters so that this is just another project for us working at the General and handling the budgets, and we're getting involved all the time. I think it's a good thing for the senator to draw this out, and it's documented because, of course, extra funds have to be followed. We have to do this well and keep good quality here and safe and, as I said before, for the common consumer that there's some very small writing and deception in the packaging of food. We do not want that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u149	Madam President. Another thing that was also discussed in public. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and whisk. paritaprevir The dose of Ögmundur, the son of Jónasson before, was whether these two cases need to be handled together, i.e. livestock, et cetera. On the other hand, this toll agreement with the European Union. Of course, there are some things that are relevant to this discussion, so I'm not going to deny that there are many issues related to these two matters, but I completely disagree that these matters are needed together and that it is really important to postpone the agreed agreement. That's exactly because there are so very low levels of analysis available on the impact of the contract. Because of it. One senator mentioned that there's always a time when we have to talk about money and how much things cost them, I would like to ask why. A senator as to whether she is not concerned that we are actually involved with this contract to enter unpublished checks, because we know what we're going to do with farming, but then we're going to go to some kind of counterargument, too, to respond to a contract that even shows up in a committee party more than that. Foreign Directoring Committee not really have any proper diagnosis. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u150	Madam President. I thank the senator again for a good answer. I have great respect for her viewpoint and her opinions on the fact that these two matters, i.e. Products and toll agreements with the EU do not have to be completed. On the other hand, I feel differently. I did well in response to the answer to why. paritaprevir A hundred Jónasson's son before that. I believe that it is important that we resolve these issues together because we encounter very different views that govern our agricultural system, food production, and so forth. Hopefully, we'll make more peace in the community, which is always a positive and better system than it is now, in my opinion. I'm not going to judge if the analysis could have been more thorough with the effect of the contract, it may well have been. However, it is stated in the opinion of the greater part, I refer to a table on import, that the effect is not as extensive as some have wanted to be. It's more about the import of cheese than anything else. It's explained that it's due to the export of a shirt, and then we have this special source of cheese and there's no beef, we produce enough beef ourselves. [[The president calls.]] This effect is therefore low. I mean, I haven't seen the expense estimate, as the senator knows, but I believe that considering this little effect, we're not talking about crazy, very high amounts of money we can't handle. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I'm very comfortable with this matter and I hope it'll be over.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u151	Madam President. I hereby recommend a proposal for the resolution of the European Union and Iceland agreement to trade with agricultural products from the smaller part of the State Department, which is actually the one listed here. Iceland and the European Union's agreement on agricultural trade is, as the term indicates, a toll agreement in capitalistic economic systems. Its approach is primarily based on commerce and commerce, but little or nothing is viewed to social or environmental factors. Such a vision, in my opinion, is too narrow, and it is likely that with such a narrow view, the public interests and the offering of nature are important. I think it is unavoidable to criticize how this contract was made, which in everyday terms is called the Toll agreement, and I will probably call it below, to the European Union. The contract was completed and signed on part of Iceland without any attempt to detect its impact on Icelandic society, environmental, economic, and social. That was the end of the deal, and he signed from Iceland without consulting important stakeholders. The only other trip is when it comes to foreign affairs, and as for this contract, the Council is involved, i.e. A minister has already prepared a contract, and a minister has signed it, and then it is either confirm or reject by Generalis. Overall, i.e. Yeah. State Department, there's no room. The committee could not make any changes in things that we might have agreed to make. Rather, it is similar to a number of other foreign affairs that we are involved and must take a stand on whether we want to reject or accept our actions. I think that would be an awful arrangement, because I think that if the General arrived at an earlier time, that would be a very frequent improvement. It was an outcast from what I was discussing, i.e. that there had been no attempt to analyze the impact of the contract, at least not by counseling. The only attempts to analyze the impact of the contract on Icelandic society were made after the contract was signed. On the one hand, it is the food that Dr. Vífill Karlsson was working for the National Farmers Association on the impact of the Convention on the publication of Icelandic Farmers. The results of his analysis suggest that without any counter-important action, the loss of different livestock may be due to the contract running at hundreds of millions of dollars. However, there is a report designed to assess its impact on individual habitats, especially pigs and poultry, as well as on the impact and costs of new agricultural regulations. The committee often stated that it was better to perform a series of articles on the impact of the agreement earlier in the process. And under that, I take my mind. Over the years, consumer awareness of the importance of animal traffic has increased rapidly. It's the food of the smaller parts at the base. Foreign Affairs Committee, i.e. me, that it is not sufficiently guaranteed by the contract that products that may be brought here on the basis of the contract are produced in a decent setting in this respect. However, there is one factor to benefit from the contract, i.e. to give more access to the import of natively marked cheeses that are not produced here on land. Should such cheeses be able to be less available to consumers than has been so far since the contract was instituted, and these cheeses are not competing with domestic product. But I think it's important to look at it in the overall context. Indeed, many refer to these famous cheeses as one of the great advantages of the contract. But there is only one point, and I think it's important that we look at the bigger picture. Although I find Primadonna cheeses and various other cheeses very good, I don't think they're really good enough to use them as the only justification for accepting this deal. I think at least there's more to it and I'll come to that later. In view of the greater part of the State Department, a detailed discussion on the cross-recognition and the competitiveness of agriculture is presented. A smaller section of the Committee agrees with all the main points of this discussion. I'd like to mention, for example, that to the Committee, it was criticized that the contract assumes that there is the same amount of import from the EU to Iceland and from Iceland to the EU. However, it is clear that the impact of import from Iceland on the large market of Europe will be negligible due to its low size compared to total food intake. On the other hand, the import from the EU could have a major impact on the Icelandic market, with the one scheduled to be nearly 20% of our total consumption. The EU has not been prepared to look to different markets in the greater part, making small contracts that are common in general. I have to say, from that information and that coverage, I come up with a whole different conclusion and conclusion, but more of that stuff. Foreign Affairs. In terms of conflicting competitiveness, I would particularly like to note that there was a poor competition not only coming from the agriculture but also from national manufacturers that indicated that there were still tolls on the raw materials they use for their production while customs of the full products were eliminated. This would make the position of the local manufacturers far less inferior to their foreign rivals. This is especially true of various food productions and is especially true in this case. Climate is one of the biggest challenges of our day. The Paris Convention determined that all countries should respond to the efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, deal with the consequences of climate change, and ensure considerable financial support for green solutions. In view of this, it is totally unacceptable that an analysis of the environmental impact of the contract has not been made. At that time, public interest in ecosystems and carbon footprints is being kept to a minimum. I'd like to associate this with a little discussion about livestock contracts. Although I don't believe that the work of these two cases should in no way hang together, I believe that various aspects of both issues are related and perfectly natural to discuss the points in context and to put them in context, even though it should not be determined how we handle the matter. In this day's vote on agricultural products, and other suggestions from a greater part of the employment committee were considered to be under attack on factors and solutions that should be fundamental to policy-making for the next three years on what should be considered. It is, in fact, there. The overall agricultural role in climate- and environmental activities requiring the need to sharpen environmental issues and set out the goals and means that farmers and state authorities are expected to work together. Among the other aspects, it is agreed that the review of 2019 should be considered and put to a similar pattern, a reference to less agricultural greenhouse gas emissions is given. I like that very much. I like it very much that it should be in the agricultural laws, but I'm very sorry if we agree to a European-based customs agreement where no attempt has been made to evaluate the environmental impacts it has. I just don't think it makes sense to win it that way. In a meeting with a man. The Foreign Affairs Committee was informed that domestic production often results in less eco-efficiency of agricultural products than from abroad. It was noted that if the issue is pooled, environmental issues must be taken into account. Wholesome to me is also the taking into account the laws or decisions we make at the Council. It was noted that food plays a large part in an ecology game, while those who only eat vegetables are remembered. On the other hand, if people eat meat, what kind of meat it is, as well as where and how it is made is important. However, the extent of the food chain that is off the animal's meat diet and thereby the food needed to feed it was even more important. The committee also stated that Icelandic livestock's unique status is internationally recognized, and its culture is part of the maintenance of genetic diversity. Icelandic lambs never receive genetically modified food and the use of food for feeding. In addition, it was observed that lamb should come well from an ecology analysis provided money is not applied to an overextended area, i.e. ... issustainsuficient. At the same time, it was suggested that in general, tensions are between sustainable thinking and free shopping. I certainly have to say, this deal has no mind about sustainability, he's just looking at the store gate. For the Committee, food security in Iceland was presented with the best in the world. Among the findings in many EU, more widespread infections, more frequent agricultural antibiotic use, higher rates of bacteria resistant to antibiotics were observed and monitoring is not as effective as in this country. The use of antibacterial agents in feed animals was also found to be prohibited and the use of antibiotics for growth prevention or prevention of disease. Nevertheless, the Commission received information that antibacterial resistance had been reported to have been considerably higher in Europe than in this country and that the situation was worse in southern Europe. Again, you can say that there's a little connection with what was discussed with the agricultural law. It speaks of one of the things that have created the uniqueness of Icelandic agriculture, which include: Some decisions have been made that have made Icelandic agriculture unique to its competitiveness in quality and purity and that these special advantages are notably in healthy animal stocks, grass feeders, small use of artificialism and less drug use, and so on. I think there's something we have to protect. I'm not sure we can do so well with this deal. In Iceland, there's stricter regulations about vampires and salmonellas. In Europe, there are generally no periodic monitoring of kampylobacter, and there are rules for only two types of salmonella. On the other hand, in this country the rules apply to all species of salmon and can be detected in poultry are discarded by all birds of aquarium. Commenting on the contract, a psychiatrist noted that the increase in the import of fresh agricultural products in the country could result in a health problem that the Icelandic authorities need to be aware of and prepared to react. It is noted that according to the World Health Organization and the European Commission for Disease Control, bacterial spread and antibiotic resistant bacteria are a major health threat to mankind. Many factors contribute to the spread of germs, but one of them is a distribution of fresh food, especially fresh fatlings. Again, I am concerned that it may be difficult to protect the unique status of the Icelandic agricultural field. for purity when import is increasing. " By permission of the President, " says a review from a Dentist's D.A.: In Iceland, the incidence of foodborne infections in humans and antibiotic resistance has been considerably lower than in most neighboring countries. With increased import of fresh agricultural products, especially poultry meat the incidence of food-borne infections will increase here on land as well as spread of antibiotic resistant bacteria. Therefore, the European Union's Commission considers it important to take into account the above risks and that it will set up a set of regulations that will allow Iceland to restrict the import of goods which are found to increase the risk of overall health in this country. At the same time, it was noted that the Committee is not systematically seeking antibiotic resistance and that antibiotics are not monitored in imported foods. Nevertheless, there are laboratory tests that show a lack of resistance in this country. The committee also stated that in a discussion of a vacation store, it is not a subject of disease prevention but of more business. The tendency, therefore, is not to take that side in the terms of treaties, but it is likely that this discussion will become more urgent in the future. That on its own, I feel that there is reason why we slow down and will not accept this agreement until we have considered its influence better. Here, time can work with us rather than with the other. It was then noted that there was a lack of surveillance on fresh food on the land. The committee also stated that if samples are found in food, they are authorized to take goods out of the market. There was, however, a lack of funding for such a display. The minority feels that large supplies will require funding for various aspects of monitoring and treatment prevention, including due to animal diseases and antibiotics resistant bacteria that can follow any food import. The smaller portion does not feel that the contract is related to the inevitable bill of change in agricultural products, etc. I repeat that this does not mean that there are many related things, as I have considered in my speech, and there are many things I think that need to be considered in context. However, I do not believe that the payment of these two Parliaments would have to or should not be connected, but would be to the contrary to the fact that the tax agreement is an international agreement that will not be changed on the part of Iceland, regardless of the change in contracts with farmers and legislation within the country may develop in the future. So I think it is unwise to confirm the contract without a comprehensive assessment of its mass impacts, such as environmental, public and economic, as well as social factors such as rural development, food development, and staff equipment. Otherwise, I'm afraid there will be a need to take reasonable measures at the appropriate costs when the impact of the contract becomes apparent. Already it is recognized that there is a need for counter measures, though more things indicate sharpness. The employment committee at its panel with a bill to correct the change in agricultural products and other aspects of the product points to a minister to carefully review the proposals of a task force appointed by marine and agricultural ministers to examine the effects of the EU toll agreements on individual habitats. So we know that there will be some effect, we just don't know who they will be. Other than that, I would like to agree with and refer to the opinion of the 2nd small part of the employment committee, which was signed by the circumstances. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, our left representative in the trade board, for the contract that is printed here and included in the following document. All of this said, the smaller part goes to bed. The Foreign Affairs Committee for the case to be referred again to the highest level. Governments providing a comprehensive analysisal work on the impact of the contract so that an informed decision can be made whether to reject or accept this agreement, with regard to the total interest of the Icelandic community and the environment. Under the heading, the writer is the one listed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u152	A respectable president. I wondered what it was like to have a lawsuit or something. A senator and a member of the Committee to Refuse a part of the State Department that specifically warns against customs or toxification of customs with the European Union on the grounds that food may be introduced may be potentially infected or brought with some kind of disease to Iceland or to be produced in a lesser way than in Icelandic agriculture. Now I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament whether I am correctly understood by the Commission that more of the imported foods being added here in the contract are very similar to the import that has taken place in the past few years since the European Union because of the lack of relevant species in this country, beef, etc. What can be the health or environmental policy of exported goods in accordance with the tax agreement and the products delivered by customs or products transferred from a national tax issue? I wondered a bit about this reasoning, and I'd love to get more depth into argument. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u153	V.E.G. President. I don't know any better than they're suggesting an increase in the import of various meat products. There are some things that are already being imported, that are quite true. Of course, we also need to watch how these products are made and if there are infections in that product. It was noted to the Commission that there was more to such infections in the European Union. It was also noted to the committee that there was a shortage of funds to monitor this. What farmers were worried about was that there was an additional import here, and it could affect their working environment. I think that's one of the things we need to consider. Then again, how to interpret what is said in the contract. It did not agree on whether meat was being spoken of on bone or directly. Of course, it affects the number of pounds we are talking about when it comes to import. There was absolutely no comparison of the real effect of this contract. That's one of the things I think we have to go over better before we agree with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u154	A respectable president. I wonder a little further on the world scene that food produced in the European Union is more dangerous than domestic food. True, there were opinions to the committee, such as meditation, and thinking about things. I feel like in the speech of a dog. A candidate is very small about trusting Icelandic consumers in choosing his own food, food that is indeed already available in the country, i.e. imported food, and it's about to go, we should say pretty gently to protect consumers from doing a possible nonsense. I also wanted to hear what I thought. The senator's opinion of the committee's risk of infection and disease was primarily caused by the spread of people and people from abroad. Now, the fact is that tens of thousands of Icelanders go abroad every year, even to the European Union, where they even eat food produced in those countries and then return without going to an environment. Millions of foreigners come to the land without contaminating the land. I wanted to get a second opinion. A senator's decision on how to import food, much of which are already the same as the one that may have been introduced, can have a major impact on the health of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u155	Madam President. So I'll start with the last one. I don't think a tax agreement will have a major impact on the health of the nation, but as I came into my speech earlier, I believe it's a problem with the contract how narrow he looks at things, i.e. it is mostly or isolated, looking at things from a business point of view but not taking in environmental or social variables, which can have unexpected consequences for Icelandic society. I think it needs to be made a lot better before we sign it. It was observed by a disease - control doctor that the future will be examined for the effects of diseases that can be spread from country to country. I'll not say, it may well be that there will be more factors in the future than food. I'll be honest with you that I think if we want to approach the whole thing, as I would like to try to do it, we need to do it, when it comes to climate, not only to think about what we eat and how we make our foods but also many more in our customs and habits and including perhaps how we travel. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u156	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her story, the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. She recommended my opinion on the subject. The Foreign Affairs Commission for a proposal to conspire about the confirmation of Iceland and the European Union's agreement on agricultural trade. I found the talk quite interesting. Now I don't have a seat. State Commission or w-w-w-what. A professional health committee. In a previous answer, I'd like to step in on it for a while. The senator began his talk on commercial and commercial interests that are underneath. This, of course, is very clear and was made clear in a talk. A candidate in particular when it comes to climate and environmental impacts, and then loyalty with public health, will be evaluated. A senator so that the matter cannot be supported. Last year I'm going to ask you why. Senator: If we make ourselves part of these two elements and focus on the business side of the deal - because it is once for the toll of the economic benefits of the delinquency of such customs - if we interfere with the impacts of climate and environment, loyalty and public health, what is the general attitude. A senator to customs as a fundraiser, and he'll appreciate it. Senator on the fact that she's an impenetrable business side of this deal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u157	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. At first, I'd like to say that I find it very important not to neutralize this precisely and not subtract this into just looking at this sort of business deal. I've been trying to reason at the General Assembly that we have to look into the whole context. That's what I've tried to do and will keep on doing. I think we have to take things out of a wider context than just the commercial. Still, to answer a question, I try. I have no particular princely opinion of customs in the general sense of customs. I'm always ready to look at customs, I think that sometimes they can be useful, sometimes it's possible to argue that they may not be available, but there's always a need to examine the context of the parts each time. This is the case where the matter really has a community effect, i.e. The fact that we change customs and make business contracts can affect the whole community and the rest of the environment, we just have to take more variables than just tolls. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u158	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'll admit it here in the previous year that I allowed myself to have a sort of technical approach to the case in order to lead me into the second answer to these two factors. I can agree with what. A senator, of course, that these two dramatic aspects of this matter, which are climate and environment, cannot be neutralised and so loyal. I struck by it today and presented myself in a sermon. A senator at the moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, made an excellent point of reviewing the changes needed to improve the points of a livestock contract that are responsible for the aims of less greenhouse gas emissions. It is equally natural to consult a tax agreement. The other thing is, I'm gonna share my concerns with you. When it comes to the use of antibiotics and is firmly supportive of national production and food security. I'm going to ask a second answer, it may have been in the development of the Commission on the case, how this approach would be made and what methods would be used to explore these impacts, the environmental effects, in such a contract between the European Union and Iceland. So when it comes to the imported product and the risk of infection, how could the methods be used to prevent us from importing more infected meat than we are producing within the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-01-144.u159	Madam President. The committee noted that they were simply in need of financial support even now to take a sample of what we are importing. There may be one reason I don't think it's time to confirm this agreement, that the funds needed to get into this sample are not guaranteed. This is not in financial programmes, and it has not been expected in budget making. There is, of course, one of the many things I think are based on why we should take it slow and postpone signing this contract. - In case. A senator would whisper to me what was the first... yes, how could you measure them? [[It turned to environmental and climate.]] The committee noted that it was not quite easy to do so, but it was pointed out, as I discussed in my talk, that the provisions of food transport were of some importance, but it was even more important how food was made. [[The president calls.]] We may not be able to quite specify the European Union for what to do in these matters, but we can at least calculate our way of life in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm so happy for what we're doing here today, to be analyzing this in Iceland.
