ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u1	A respectable president. Last case at the last meeting, last speech. I thank the members of the Parliament for the cooperation in the last two terms, thank you for the President's most enjoyable cooperation. Thank you, Einar, it's really good to work with you. Thank you, all of you. In fact, I've said everything I want to say in this chair, only two words will be said, Marshall out. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u2	President thanks a lot. A senator is eager to greet him and his family in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u3	A respectable president. I'm standing where I am. A senator here at my last meeting, last case I'm actually very happy to be the last one, but it's about to celebrate this century's anniversary. I look forward to it, and I look forward to enjoying it with you. I want to take this opportunity and give special thanks to the president for the cooperation and why. Councilmen all for their cooperation and happy times, and wish them why. Council members here will serve at the next council, receiving a vote, of all the best of important jobs for country and nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u4	A respectable president. I have to admit it here, and now I'm here simply because of a lot of peer pressure. I had not thought of saying good - bye to the Allied in this manner, but I am in the same situation as those who have spoken here before. But since I did not resist the temptation, so many people have used this opportunity. I'd like to finish my career, just in case. Thank you so much for all help from the Generals. I think very few people are aware of what sort of song or people are here at work. And with all due respect for us sitting in this room, I think Generalis's staff is up to one of the finest groups of people who have ever chosen at one workplace. I want to make sure that my closing words from this platform thank you very much for your cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u5	A respectable president. I especially welcome the case we are about to agree with, to call attention to the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty and independence of the Icelanders in 2018. We will try to do so as well as we can at the Tingvalls, where we will open a magnificent presentation of the history of the Þingvala, nature, and culture. What a pleasure that will be! There is something else that is most enjoyable, that can end the Senate course by celebrating this proposal as well as having had the opportunity to be at the U.S. Council of Iceland, to get to know the many jobs, as well as staff and everything else. There's one thing I'd have liked to have chosen, that's to have made more contact with members of the council here. One of the things that happens when you become ministers is that you're not going anywhere at all. I'm so socialized that I've missed the company I've missed here at the Council, that I can't be with the group anymore. I can't say that I hope I can do that later, it's the end, and I want to thank you for the good time I've had the opportunity to be here with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u6	A respectable president. Many things have been said about the Council. I've felt over the years that the presentation of this fine workplace in the media was different from what it really is. My experience is that here I have the opportunity to work with good people who want to do good. It uses a variety of methods, but every one I have in the past nine years has had the opportunity to work along with, and I want to thank you for my good cooperation. It has been a privilege to manage a environmental and transport committee. I'd like to say that we've achieved tremendous success in cooperation during this terms. It has also been a privilege to be chairman of the Council of Northern Iceland and the president of the Council of the North. I think we've managed to promote that good work, and I think it's extremely important that we keep it high. Other than that, I'd like to thank the President of the Generals and all the staff I've worked with in recent years. Thank you. This is a good workplace, and I wish all of you dear senators and workmates good luck, as well as those who will take on new jobs after the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u7	A respectable president. In fact, I had thanked myself here yesterday, thought it would be my last speech, but mostly now I'd come up to draw attention to a language we agreed on earlier on a return to the sports remuneration where the 1st transporter is Willum Þórsson. I thought the dog. A senator would come up and draw attention to this matter, but perhaps most of all, he said that he was not a knight for that important matter. So it was referred to the government, and I would like to reiterate the degree of agreement here to refer it to the government. I trust the government will consider and act on it. Other than that, I thank you all, staff, and people who chose me least and entrusted me with the establishment of this elected period, a great deal for their trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u8	The president is very grateful for the greetings he has received and for the members of the council that have been here addressed and are now completing their council. The president would like to say that there are exceptions that all these members of the council have, of course, made similar efforts in various ways, but all of them have worked as we would like to do. At this juncture, the president wants to thank them very much for their work in behalf of the council and the nation, and benefit them and their families in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u9	Honorable generals. The end of this council, which will be the last in the election season. On October 29th. It expires the commission that all of us received three and a half years ago. The assembly that is about to end is in many ways unusual, even unique. It began on September 8, 2015, and ends today, October 13, 2016. This is the longest council counted during meeting days. They've been 147. The assembly next to this assembly in the number of meetings days is 116th, which began on August 17, 1992, and ended May 9, 1993, at which meeting days 131 were held. This long council has led to a number of things, including Ministers have never answered, unprepared, as many inquirys from members of the council, 341 queries, so the minister of 748 queries from members of the council answered either on Congress documents or unprepared. Since the Senate's work has been scheduled for 64 meetings, it can be said that some 960 times the members of the council were silent under that program. There were 57 special discussions and only once before - while they were called extracurricular discussions - there were others at the same assembly. There were four oral reports of Ministers. Then, in fact, there have been seven law releases approved at this council, and most of all, there have been a total of 72 findings approved by the council. Clearly, then, it has been a long, active, busy assembly. The general council and our work are often spoken down, but whatever they say about the criticism, the debate, the conflict, or the work done here at the General, I'd like to express the opinion that we elected to the Generals are, in fact, a great friend. We generals are in a unique position. We have been entrusted with authority and a great responsibility by the public in this country. The people have entrusted us with working on their national commission and given us power to do so by their vote. And what is more valuable or noble than just working for the people in the country? In this particular connection, I want to direct my words to young people who want to do their ideals for their benefit, saying: "Present yourselves in politics, participate in the political debate, seek the authority of the voters, and attempt to be elected. There is nothing more lofty than having the confidence of the people of the country, the voters, and having the opportunity to work for the public for progress on the basis of the principles of life that you have. We often hear claims that young people are not interested in politics. That's what I think is very important. However, in recent years a negative view of politics may have led many to shift their interest in other ways than those that may be in the realm of elected representatives. On the other hand, I urge young people not to let the political, political, and the work being done here at the Council reduce their interest in serving the people in this field, which is the cornerstone of the democratic organization we live in. Despite my appeal to young people, I would be the last to say that there's a lot of luck here. There are certainly some critical aspects in the work of the Generals, and this is especially true in the discussion arrangement. How disappointing it was for me to see the failure of a reevaluation of Congress law during this terms! True, there was quite a lot of meeting attendance, and there were ideas of important changes, especially during discussions and discussions. However, as the work became difficult, it became clear that unless the Constitution was made changes, it was not a sign of willingness to make significant changes in the arrangement for discussion that strengthened my position at the General Assembly. The proposals made by the Board of Directors were arranged for authorities to turn the decision of the General Assembly into a national law, which would surely have strengthened the very status of the section at the General Assembly. As noted, however, there was no agreement to be made with the Commission's proposals. This was no longer a basis for harmony to succeed in changing the terms of engagement. So I concluded that there was no suggestion for any change in political affairs during this assembly. I've previously made it a subject that, compared to our neighboring council, a conversation here at the Senate Hall is taking place in a large part of the Senate business. At the councils that are close to us, there is an organized frame of conversation in the Hall, and at the same time, it provides sufficient and a good time for that discussion. However, it also applies to the arrangement where the chairman of the Parliament is appointed to have more authority to organize the discussion and set the time frame. I believe that minor changes in the structure of a discussion will be of little importance to the face of the Allegorium. The only way to do this is to take the way that other councils have traveled to establish more organization. As far as I'm concerned, it's an important part of developing confidence in the Generals. How happy I am that at last there are important adjustments in the affairs of the council! I consider that there is a full agreement between groups here at the General Assembly that, at the General Assembly, a building will be raised up under the operation of the Parliament, with the members of the Parliament and members of the Parliament. On this point, a body of Congress recently joined a vote in this hall for the payment of financial programs for years to come. So I believe that this agreement, as it was further presented in the Generals resolution, will live and exist, although later in the fall, there will be a new order for the council and a new government. The design competition for this new building at the General Assembly is now in progress and is due on October 25th. Is it expected that the shipment will be ready in the spring months of 2017 and that the dedication of the building could take place at the year 2019/2020? It is a pleasure to report that the house's renovations are completed on the Church Street and are being used for the benefit of it these days. By doing so, the Generals'house is built in an entire picture, and all they can say is that they are truly populous. During the past decade, there have been significant changes in the order of the General Assembly. It is not unusual in itself, though in individual elections there will be significant changes in the council. Such things have happened before the next election has ever started to develop a steady state, as it were, of the Council's order and the changes have been lower. In 1991, when I first sat down at the General Assembly, new members of Congress were located near 40% of the world. The corresponding change had not occurred since 1978 when the new members were 35% of members of Congress. What is unusual today, however, is that there have been three consecutive elections, such as 2007, with 38% new members, and 42% in each election, 2009 and 2013. Thus, these three elections included an average of 41% of members of the Parliament who served at the General of New Parliament. Thus, in no longer than 2007, 126 individuals have taken their seats at the General Assembly. Many have had a brief experience here. Of the 63 senators elected to the 2003 Generals, 13 years ago, only 11 are still serving in the General Assembly, and four of them will not be running in the fall. Fifty of the senators I referred to disappeared from the scene in the last three elections, and two were dead. Most indicate that when a new Council meets at the end of the total election, October 29th. Do these dramatic changes to the council order continue. These changes may even be larger than those that followed the last three total elections. Of course, here it comes mainly to the fact that a large group of members of Congress, a third of the United States, has decided not to volunteer in the next election or that they have not had a start in re-election or a party selection, and still others will not be re-elected, as we know and know. In this regard, too, I would like to mention especially, which is probably very thought - provoking and also of concern, that experience shows that women are generally less in general at the Council than with the men. The group of generals who have decided not to seek reelection are two general vice presidents of the Generals. 7. That's the north side. "Christen L. Möller, and yah. 10 yrs We're out of here. "The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson. Kristján L. Möller has spent over 17 years at the General Assembly, where he also sat for over three years in the Ministerial Class. He has been in charge of the office of the 1st vice president and the nature of the case, so our cooperation has been strong and close. The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson took up residence at the General Assembly during this elected period, and at that time he has faithfully carried out his duties as president. I want to thank both of them for their extraordinary cooperation. An old fighter, dog. 8th yrs We're out of Suðvest. "Agmuse Jónasson, is also a matter of Congress. Ögmundur has been a member of the General Assembly for over 21 years, and at that time, he serves as a minister for nearly three years and served the position of the chairman of the council for over ten years. I'd like to thank Ögmundur for years. Several other members of Congress, who have been in charge over the past few years at the Council and the government, have also announced that they will not allow themselves to be re-elected. Among these are the three ministers of the government, the Ragnheiður, the daughter of Árnadóttir, the Illugi Gunnarsson's son, and Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, who for a time have served as chairman of the council. Two former ministers, Katrín Júlíusdóttir and Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, will not be running for the election, both of whom have been vice presidents of their classes. In addition, three members of the six Parliament, President Ragnheiður of Ríkharðsdóttir, Ásmundur Daðason Deduron, and Brynhildur St. Pétursdóttir's daughter, have decided not to reelect themselves as well as Róbert Marshall, both president of the United States and vice president of Congress during this elected period and Helgi Gunnarsson, who was a member of the council and lieutenant of the Presidency Committee. And Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, Ragnhedin, served as tribunal vice president for six years, including four years as U.S. Marshal I.A. The Guðmundur Steingrímsson, former chairman of the Bjart's future, is also a matter of Congress. All these bosses, I thank you for your cooperation and good introduction. Besides the members of Congress I have mentioned, there have been seven others. Senators decide not to seek reelection. These include the chairmans Frosti Sigurjónsson, Höskuldur Þórhallsson, and Vigdís Hauksdóttir. At the same time, Elín Hirst, Einarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þorphondóttir, and Páll Pálsson. I also want to thank all of them for their good cooperation and good introductions. I'd like to mention that in the season, two members of the council were killed. It was Pétur H. Blöndal and Guðvaðu Hannesson. Their loss was great, both fine men as learning men, and it was good to work with them here at the General and to treasure the opportunity to establish a good personal relationship with them. Two members of the council gave up Congress, Árni Þór Sigurðsson and Jón Þór Ólafsson. I thank all those who are now missing from a council for their work at the General Assembly and wish them all the best in the future. Since I am one of the senators who now act as members of Congress, I would like to thank all members of my body for a very good presentation and cooperation in the years and decades, a cooperation that has been truly enjoyable. I've enjoyed working here, and I'm giving it to Congress with fond memories of my work at the General Assembly. I have certainly enjoyed the rifts of the 25 years I have spent at the General Assembly, as well as a private member of the board and of the government, as well as of the council, as I am now the prime minister of the Generals. I have especially enjoyed my work as president of Congress, and I have greatly appreciated the privilege of having had your trust in doing this great job of honor. I will truly miss Generalis and all those who work here. In the years I've been in this field, most people have changed for the better. The Senate situation has greatly improved, our bioavailability has increased greatly, the expert assistance available to us, for example. How much greater than it was at the end of the last century! In recent years, as has been the development of the council around us, so the right of members of Congress is stronger, and in recent years there has been a highly monitored role. And as I have previously noted, the Generals have a special position among the councils that we are more independent of our work. The Council is not some part of the European Commission's stamp, as some claim. On the contrary, this General Assembly is making much more important changes in administrative capitals than in general. Recent examples from this council that are about to end are evidence of this. Still, we can do better, and that will always be true, no matter how well we try to do at any given time. At the end of the council, I thank the Generals for the cooperation of this council. I would thank the vice presidents for a fine cooperation with the council board, as well as the council presidents for their good cooperation at this council. I thank the Office managers and the staff of the Generals for all assistance, and for a great job, and a complete cooperation. I thank the reporters for their cooperation with them at that time. It is important for the Council that the public has the best access to what is being done at this time. In the end, I'd like to wish out-of-town people a nice trip home and a happy return to you, all of which are well enjoyed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u10	V.E.G. President. I would like to present to our general council president best thank you for our cooperation during the election season and warm words to us. In daily life, control is needed. In daily life, you also need to exercise skill, skill, skill, and direction, as well as ability to look for the weather. In that case, it is better to live in the western part of the world in a natural, figurative sense. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] See to the weather and react to the weather. Read, read a pheasant, step forward when appropriate, and yield when appropriate. Don't throw away cowards. Sometimes they do well and sometimes they don't. During this ideal period, after one of the greatest wastes in history, all of us have had a serious problem. We have faced challenges and challenges, and at the same time, we have become less confident in society's institutions, especially in politics. Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God, the Honourable President, has shown us the value of experience. He has been a administrative opponent - indeed, unnecessaryly short - being a member of the council and a minister. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] He knows all the roles, the President's conference manager and an angry governor wrestling with the day's program, understand the position of the minister who is waiting to speak for a case, the Minister who is called in the chamber, even from home, the senator who works hard to achieve matters, wants to see results quickly, wants to see changes, and the policy become reality. He knows the position of the government resister who wishes to be part of the program, the conference board, talks about bad language, and so late. He knows the steps of the new senator, who wants to improve his work and get a plan ahead of time, and who tries to understand how the seminars cut short and move on, and why people walk, why they go under the stairs, why they suddenly enter the Puckety, why they go down into the Presidency Room when the Senate comes to the end. He knows the steps of the experienced senator in a position of government opposition, requiring that a minister immediately come to the Hall of Congress. 1 a.m., demands a roll call, or proposes a logical program. All this experience and perspective are invaluable. Most important of all, however, is respect for the Council. More than respect, really, affection. Love for the Council is a guide that is extremely important. When we succeed, we work together to resolve complex tasks, to settle complex differences, and when it comes to working together in the face of challenges, we are showing respect and respect for the people at the same time. The General is the site of democracy, where we commit confidentiality to our voters, the people of the country. Therefore, the General Assembly deserves respect and respect. Thus, not only is the workplace or the scene of conflict and strife but it is the place where democracy and the Republic have shelter at best, the area where the conflict is visible and important, but also a seminar where the discussion is done at home and in a court of thought. A respectable president. The General Assembly is the heart of the democracy in Iceland. As a result, it is a custom to speak down to members of the council and members of the council. So do we ourselves. That's bad. We need to be on the Senate, which is a good form of government, that is often delayed and often causing trouble, but there is no better. Here we should unite in strengthening the people of the Allied Council and in showing respect. As president of the United States, Einar K. Guðfinnsson of God has contributed to the support of the General Assembly and the Senate. I thank him for that on our behalf, it's a valuable contribution to the Icelandic republic. On behalf of us senators, I'd like to present best regards to the president and his family. I also thank the secretary - general of the Generals and other staff of the Generals for outstanding work, smoothness, and willing assistance, in any mood we may be in that day. A respectable president. As soon as I dislocate from the platform, I'd like to give you, dear Einar, this bouquet of flowers for us senators and make good wishes for you. While it has often been a big deal in our dealings as normal as it is normal, you can probably go to a baby's birthday and do business without risking a platoon leader from your left. I pray for special greetings and heartfelt gratitude to Sigrún. Well, live well. I ask senators to say my words to the president by getting out of their seats, by getting to his family, and by thanking the staff. Hail, Mr President! - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u11	Thank you. 5th a.m. Smoke. So, Swavarsdóttir, Svandís's Svavarsdóttir, for warm words and good wishes to me. I thank the council presidents for this beautiful bouquet of flowers and the affection I sense behind this gift. I thank the senators for agreeing with these words. A senator by rising from his seats. I repeat my thanks and wishes to do so. All members of the Parliament and staff of the Generals. It's been good here. Now, though, it's finally over and as soon as I'm offering the highest order. The prime minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson to answer, I can truthfully say that I have here at the Council made my last words. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-172.u12	President of the United States reports: I, apart from the approval of the Generals, am authorized by the prime minister to delay the discovery of the Generals, Council 145, 13 October 2016 or later, if necessary. Access sites, October 12th, 2016. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that Generals 145 is suspended. A respectable president. General elections will be held on October 29, as shown by Presidential Letters on violations and general elections to the General Assembly, published on September 20th. Now that council meetings are held, and members of Congress and groups are entering a campaign free of charge from the business legislature, I want to use this opportunity to thank a respectable president and a chief. All council members and members of the council for a very good cooperation during the time that I have served as prime minister. I believe at this time the General has shown that it is well possible to maintain good and objective discussions and to achieve success and, in the vast majority of cases, to make a joint decision on how to handle the situation, although it is inevitable and normal to understand the difference between parties in individual matters, that is the course of democracy. I personally thank you for taking matters through the council. I think it was a good blow during our fall election as well as the spring council. I'd also like to thank the staff council, the institutions, the press, the members of society and others who are concerned with its involvement in the process of payment. In just eight years since the collapse of the banking system here with us, we have been able to raise the Icelandic community from the wave valley of economic distress. Strong General, dynamic management, but especially public efficiency and perseverance have made this possible. The future is ours. It's full of possibilities and extraordinary brightness. With optimism, good sense, and forethought, let us respond to it. Hv. All council members. I wish you and the people of the land good luck and prosperity.
