ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-127.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a European Commission program with a change in bill proposal to legalize the exchange of currency laws, the financial treatment laws that depend on the specific restrictions and the laws for special taxes on financial companies, the financial resources used to reduce the negative effects of capital charge. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the Bank of Iceland. During a two - hour session earlier this evening, the committees had the opportunity to discuss the matter in detail, to ask questions, and to study the subject. I'm not going to get a word out of the committee's opinion. This led to a very good report. In this crisis, there is no suggestion for any material change. Rather, it makes only a change to a reference she was directed to, in 1st. If a reference needed to be corrected, it is not a material change. The bill on this topic is aimed at providing the National Focal Bank with a tool to reduce the risk associated with excessive funding to the country. This, in the opinion of the Committee, is an important tool and the time for legalization. There was a little debate about whether it would be necessary to establish the rules and rules that must be set in the morning at launch time. At least it made it. to speak and to the position of the person listed here is that it is of utmost importance that these rules exist, that they are all ready and that they take value for the opening of the market in themselves, the bill will be in law below. I don't want to say anything more. The committee does not make material changes. The main feature of this article is the article on the cover. No. 1492, but I want to use this opportunity to thank the committees for their good work on the case and to pay for its street. This is a very important case, an important control device that is now being moved into the Venetian case to protect from the possible influx of funds, as amazing as it seems. In the world, there are some unusual conditions in which there are negative growths in more and less all the countries around us than relatively high interest here and bright times. Thus, experts believe there is a significant risk that such a device could be tested. I'm not going to have my case further in the meantime. Signed to the following committees: Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and executive, Brabbur Níelsson's son, Sigmiur Á. Andersen, Birgir, son of Ármannsson, Willum Þór Þórsson, Línka Sævarsdóttir Anna, Steingrímsson, Valdi Bjarnadóttir, and Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-127.u2	A respectable president. The most important adjustment in this bill is to give the National Bank a tool to bind the funds in which the current flows and can adversely affect the economics. We know from experience in the leading collapse of the how dangerous the influx of capital could be, and this is our hope after the information that has been provided that there is a device that can produce sufficient results in this material. If not, further legal requirements may need to be sought, but this is generally a possibility to protect yourself from this type of influx. That's well and very important from now on, as growth differences between Iceland and other countries are growing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-127.u3	Mr. President. Although the wish had been more discussed on this matter, I support it and we in the left movement ◯ green supply. In fact, we noted it in our committees when the approved legislation on the special treatment of Croncies was adopted two weeks ago that laws were needed against waxing trades to take in fortune - making flows into the country. It's been going down. Many voices have been heard, and, of course, it would have been appropriate to deal with them, but we support the case when it comes in, for no reason to give open access to the Icelandic crown. Therefore, we will support this matter, although, of course, it would have been preferable to gain more consultation and more time to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-127.u4	A respectable president. In the bright future, we support it. Of course, such legislation has been called for a period of time, and the need for such a caution device is obvious, both in the influx that is taking place now and according to what experience taught the nation in the leading of the crash, where such instruments would have been helpful. I view this not necessarily as a step in decommissioning process but as a flash in reality as it will be after the head is lifted. This small economist system tends to overheat and increase frequently. There is a lot of incentive for the growth trade that can lead us to a number of economic problems, and therefore a precautionary approach is required. It is very important to make sure that this is not to be the cause of long - term return to normal investments in Icelandic commercial life but to practice divination. In that light, we support the situation. [[The president calls.]] So hope that one day in this country, of course, there will be little growth, which is the root cause of the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-127.u5	President. Piranus support this operation. Sadly, with these matters, we have very little time to study them. I'm uncomfortable with that, and that's what you and I find. It would have been better for us to have used this special committee, which makes it more difficult for the members of the committee to believe that they have signed their trust. I don't quite understand what this is all about. I don't think it's a good work song. At the same time, I agree with the criticism that this was not done before and not with the law given here recently. Every time a law is applied that handles such overexcited capital transport or inhibition of flow or an increase in flow, there may be consequences. It seems to me that the Secret Bank and the Ministry of finance covered various scenarios. [[The president calls.]] This kind of work doesn't work, that you get this little information and so late.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-127.u6	A respectable president. For many years, there have been discussions of the precautions involved in this bill, preparing for at least two years, and especially for the last few months. So it's a big breakthrough because we're taking this step here today. I thank all those who have come to prepare. I also thank the council for understanding that they are taking such complex and difficult measures to treat in such a short time. Very many, including. has for a long time discussed the need to make this decision. So it's very happy that we're finishing it here tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-127.u7	V.E.G. President. I support this case and participated in the financial and business funds of it earlier tonight. This is an important matter that is inevitable in the light of the circumstances we have seen. Some of these factors are directly related to the operation that we call a single name of execution, but of course the caution device, which may be a major component of the bill more extensive than that. The reasons and leading up to this issue are closely linked to the outstanding action that is being carried out and that has been successful, promising, breaking up, which is an extremely important matter for Icelandic economic and commercial living. In this regard, we need to give careful consideration to the authority given to public institutions. It was adopted in the work of the Committee. It is my opinion that this bill has gone no further than necessary, and that it is permitted, but, of course, it is always necessary to exercise caution when giving a ruling authority to the government. [[The president calls.]]
