ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-170.u1	A respectable president. I present a panel of members from a greater part of the General and Education Committee on bill for student loans and scholarship legislation. The nominee is available at Council Report 1723, and there is a new proposal to be made in the 1724 Parliament. The case is here for 2nd. I'd like to start by in particular that the matter is being arranged because I believe it is very important after all the work that has been put into the matter at the council and at the Board of Education to have the opportunity to discuss it in the Senate. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a large number of visitors. In all, there were 45 reviews and comments on the subject. That was a discussion at 13 meetings of the General and Education Committee. During most of those meetings, most of the committee's time went into this one matter. I want to take this opportunity to thank all the visitors who have come to the court, as well as the members of the committee, for their work. Then I believe it is right here that the bill for student loan and scholarship was submitted on May 30, but it was recommended here at the Assembly Hall on August 16, so that the discussion of the bill as ordered before the council has been held for six months in society. The nominee is quite a factor, and I will, in my review, stress to draw a view of the greater part of the overall change of the bill and the basis for the change in the greater part. The bill includes a full reexamination of the Icelandic loan fund. The objectives of the bill can be divided into several factors. First, the changes that have been made in Icelandic education since the Icelandic Board of Education were last taken for a full reexamination, which was 1992. Second, comments that have been made in Kingdom Review reports in recent years are addressed. Third, the criticism of students, stakeholders, and State Reconnaissance in terms of the discrepancies that disintegration of the State's scholarship to students in the form of wax pay and eulogy includes and to respond when the scholarship is made more visible and balanced. Fourth, the risk analysis done on the Icelandic loan fund and the development it presents is under way. Fifth, it is being encouraged to encourage the student's improved student career and, sixth, increase the use of state funds, and bring the arrangement of study aids closer to that in other parts of the North. The above opinions are divided into several chapters. First, there is a chapter on university and science in Iceland, evolution and status. In October 2015, the Ministry of Education and Culture issued a report on the University and Science System in Iceland, but the Ministry of Education and Culture decided in the fall of 2014 that work would be started on a global policy of five years for the topic range ◯ University and science that used higher education, research, innovation, and the major support of the seminary. The policy of reaching the university, research institutions, and fields of knowledge, Iceland's Research Centres, Icelandic loan Funds, and Scientific and Technical Council. The report is the result of the first stage of policy development and describes the state of the university and scientific system here on earth with a reference to new details about the seminary. So this report is one of the basics on which the bill is based. In recent years the number of high school students in this country has steadily increased, and this was especially high since the turn of the century. By the year 2000, the number of college students was more than 10,000, but in recent years there have been some 20 thousand. The proportion of women has been in the mid - 1900's. The report shows that the average age of freshmen in 2012 was highest in Iceland compared to the OECD states or 25.6 years. High school students in this country are older than they walk and become in other parts of the North countries. Nowhere is such a low percentage in the youngest age group, i.e. 24 years of age and younger as well, there is no equal share except in the oldest age groups, i.e. 30 years and older. The 20th - year - olds in this country had the lowest in OECD countries, but there was no equal rate of 20 - year - olds in high school. The rate of 20 in high school may be expected to decline over the next few years following short - term studies to the student's test. The average age of students who complete their first university degree in this country was less than 31 years in 2012, which was the highest average in the OECD countries. Generally, students in the OECD countries are 31 and a half years old when they finish their master's degree, but here in the country, the average age is over 35 years. On the basis of what was attributed here, the bill emphasized the need to encourage a higher education career, including the student's. with scholarships dependent on academic advancement requirements. It is important for students to study continuously as far as possible. Then there are some aspects of study arrangements. In the 9th. The bill discusses the maximum study aid, the impact of age and limitation because of paying. In the treatment of this case, a few comments were made on the fact that study aid will be provided only for seven years of study or equivalent to 420 ECTS units. The majority of the claim that the five - year funded structure in this bill is in accordance with the requirements set out in the Bologna Declaration signed in 1999 and the National Education Policy has taken into account since then. It should be noted, then, that except for specific study articles from a five - year allowance period, there is an inconsistencies between students according to their choice of education, which is in opposition to the basic idea that scholarship through a study aid system should be equal. Some discussions in the Committee were created that the maximum study aid would greatly reduce the ability of students to complete a doctor's test. It was noted at a meeting of the Committee that a relatively small proportion of doctors receive study assistance. It was also noted that in recent years, doctors'efforts to strengthen themselves have increased with increasing government funding. The greater part points out that according to the Bologna Declaration, which is part of Iceland, there is a full college education at all levels of 480 ECTS, i.e. 180 units for tray degrees, 120 units for master's degree and 180 units for Ph.D., or eight years. Based on the above, a larger part feels that it is right to respond to the comments observed during the bill treatment and suggests that if a student has fully developed his right to study, he can apply for access to LIN for up to 60 additional ECTS units due to medical training. Thus, the study aid will be confined to the same number of units that most occur in the North countries. In 1 1. The bill is about scholarship. It says that the scholarship to further school years is 65 you. K. a month compared to a full course of study. Some sources reported that it was more desirable that the scholarship was linked to the social status of loans and that equal concentrations regardless of place or social or economic circumstances will increase academic inexorability. The committee spoke about it. The majority estimate is on the goal of the bill, ensuring progress during studies regardless of the economy, is achieved, by subsidies, and by loans where it is possible to borrow as much as possible. This will ensure that students can study regardless of their economic situation. At the same time, it is guaranteed that the family situation of students should be taken into account in calculating a progressive purpose. A greater part of the study is that according to social conditions, students have the right to pay benefits, such as child reforms and housing support. 12th degree. The bill discusses the general conditions and peaks of student loans. 2 mgr. that the sum of the total value of student loans that the fund lends to each individual for the forward and for school costs may be a maximum of 15 million. K. This peak amount was somewhat discussed, and the majority of the segments were held in 15 million. K. A roof on a loan of nearly 18 million. K. Already the student's scholarship has been taken into account as a proper reference to the student. Given that more than 99% of students are now studying loans below those thresholds, it is clear in view of the greater part that this roof on the maximum loan level will have limited impact on students. In this case it is only right that 85% of student loans are now under 7.5 million. K. There was some discussion on the borrowing of the academic status of LIN. It is important, in the greater sense, that learning information to students will be improved from the current level, thereby contributing to the increased transparency and support of financiallocks. In order to accomplish this, it is important that the borrower can recognize a court's right to borrow, the expected payment rate of the loans he intends to take, and/or have taken. A student's decision on whether and how to borrow is required is based on solid information in accordance with the arrangement for study and family conditions. The rest of the section suggests we're 12. The bill is added to two new paragraphs that stipulate information requirements, including that LIN should allow individuals to plan the amount of payment made in a simple way by means of potential loans. This could be met by making a calculus available on a web. Then it is an arrangement for study support. According to the bill, students are generally paid out scholarships and college loans at the end of a loss when they have met the requirements for a student's career. According to the bill, a miner can obtain a interest allowance that is intended to improve the financial cost of Bible study contributions according to medical assistance. There was some evidence that profits were made by adjusting this arrangement to pay students along with their studies for scholarship and loans. It was noted that after this study aid is paid out, it is unavoidable that some of the funds to the LAIN will go directly to the loans through a scholarship but not to students. To improve this, a greater proportion will be made available to students to accept study aid by monthly advance payments during study periods, after they have completed at least one missed his studies. A greater part of this suggests that this adjustment requires contributions from funds to loans from year to year, resulting in monotonous costs. If the bill is legalized, it needs to be taken into account in making budgets. Since the last full reexamination of student law on student loans was 1992, this change contributes greatly to students'success and has been the struggles of students. If the law becomes a legal arrangement, it is a turning point for students, not for financial institutions, but for government funds. Remuneration and reimbursement loans. 16th degree. The bill is about loans. A few of the articles were discussed and contributes to the change that interest rates due to recent deaths will be attached to 0.5%. This suggests that growth should be a maximum of 2.5% and that it should be determined by each year's distribution regulations, taking into account the average bill of the fund. In this way you will have an opportunity to reduce the growth rate if the loan and the government funds have a better loan than the fact is today. In the 17th. magazine on reimbursement. In view of the information-developed lender's share, at the beginning of student loans, LIN should publish a payment plan to lend to borrowers, which takes into account annual average swellings during the past 12 months. In the 18th. The bill is discussed on the postponement of reimbursement. It suggests that because of serious financial problems caused by learning, unemployment, unemployment, accident, pregnancy, child care, or marriage care, or other similar circumstances that suddenly arise, it is permitted to postpone the loans of student loans for up to 12 months. A loan can get a maximum delay in reimbursement for a total of 36 months. The greater part shows that the bill involves a significant change with limits on how long you can have such a procrastination. At the same time, there's 18th floor. The bill is authorized to postpone up to half of every student loans paid for up to 60 months because of the first purchase of an apartment house. A greater estimate is that restrictions on rules such as these can be applied to those who have serious financial problems because of sudden or unexpected events, but the limitations presented may result in obstacles. It is important to consider the individual's circumstances in this situation, so the more part suggests that a new set of laws on the basis of academic loans is added to the bill, allowing it to cancel the loans while borrowing for financial problems because it is unable to work because of an accident, disease, or other similar causes. Only pay payments that are due to be canceled while borrowing financial problems from the above causes. Twenty-fiveth. The bill is on information to the LAIN. Peritoneal protection stated that the law included too extensive a warrant for the processing of personal information on borrowing, his partner, and his family. It is necessary in a clear way to determine what information is necessary for the Icelandic loan fund when evaluating whether a borrower is entitled to study aid or if he is requesting annuity for any reason. Also, when, in what circumstances and from which of the LINs, it is necessary to obtain information on borrowing, and after the events of his or her mate, as well as to provide instruction on this process. In view of this, the greater portion contributes to a change in the arrangement, making up 25th. The bill will be divided into two articles so that there will be a clear understanding between the information related to the candidate and the information related to the government. Twenty-six. The bill is a matter of silence. A greater proportion of these provisions is in line with Persian protection statements. Twenty-seventh. The bill recommends that the laws on the local payment of the public do not apply to the payment of study aid. The government tax manager pointed out that when it comes to putting an exception on the market, it should be taken care of for the separation of the reserve. To accomplish this, the term "instructive study " would be more than just an occasion. A greater proportion agree with this indication and suggest that, instead of the word "biblical study aid " be found at a concentration of ◯. In addition, the greater part adds to the requirement that LIN should be given regular information to the head of state tax on funded scholarships, as it were, income tax obligations. This will make it easier for students who earn more than taxes to inform paypayers about the status of personal discounts through an electronic tax card. The majority also refer to the Ministry to see if this review of Regulation No. 561/1987, on pay, payment and benets outside the local pay. To clarify this further, this is actually about the fact that the loan does not bring in a standard payment from funded scholarships, but it provides the information so that it enters an electronic tax card of individuals who accept a scholarship. The main factor should be the prevention of students who have been paid taxes by the end of the year. Then the majority suggest a change in the value of the bill; when the bill was submitted, it was expected to take effect on August 1. The majority of it feels that the bill involves system modifications that need preparation and therefore suggests that the bill will start on August 1, 2017. Then there are some changes to temporary rules; where the majority suggest a change in the bill's processing, the changes in regulations are made temporarily in harmony with this. In the treatment of the Committee bill, there was some discussion on the possibility of using remuneration loans that encourage people to settle down and work in rural areas that are prepared to defend themselves. The majority of the data suggests that in the current 2014/2017 based programme, specific measures in areas where people are expected to be affected are proposed. It says that there is a possibility that the student loan of a certain area will be canceled by a certain percentage each year. The reason for this proposal is that this was considered a suitable procedure to increase the variety of employment in areas to which it is due and to increase the likelihood of getting expert professionals to work. It was also considered that these actions could be an incentive for people who want to live in the country after the education has taken place there. The greater part shows that a similar arrangement is in Norway where you can apply for folding in up to 10% of student loans per year if the person lives and operates in the northern regions of the country. They also contribute to the residence of certain professions, e.g. Doctors and teachers, in the southernmost provinces, with special rules on reimbursement of student loans. The majority suggest that a new provision will be added to the bill for provisional purposes requiring that a minister appoint a group of five men who are responsible for developing a proposal to establish an impulse system through the tax system for reimbursement of student loans, in support of regional policy. The greater part suggests that a team will expand the catalysts of academic education to settle into areas where there is a strong impact and see if a comparable system can be used to encourage students to pursue education that there is an predictable lack in society. The majority estimate is that when new student loans and scholarship laws come up, there may be some doubt about the rights of students who are benefiting from LAIN and may also have a right to an even greater level, according to the Law on scholarship. A greater part suggests a new provisional requirement requiring that a minister appoints a group of five men who have the responsibility of viewing a law on scholarship, No. 79/2003, as well as student loans and scholarships. The group should have the aim that all high school students and students at university who cannot pursue comparable studies from a legal home in this country or another equally relevant place of residence will be travelling regardless of whether they will benefit from residence grants based on laws relating to scholarship or scholarship. The majority suggest that proposals be returned to the minister no later than March 1, 2017, or well in advance of the law's execution. The main adjustment proposals for more of the General and Education Committee have then been reviewed. At the end, I'd like to put together key things that I find important about the bill. The majority estimate is that the system modification of the bill will encourage an improved learning course, an increased transparency, and harmony with the rest of the North countries. The majority of these changes will focus on increasing transparency as study aid is divided into student loans and scholarships and the need to respond to the needs of different community groups, i.e. This change gives us new opportunities to respond to the needs of these groups. In view of this, it is suggested, for example, that specific opinions be made on how to meet the ground. The majority believe that in Iceland students who are working at high school, they may become a major source of management supplies for industry and education. Progress increases to 100%, which is a big step forward, but these changes increase the likelihood that students will not have to work through studies, thus increasing the possibility of improving their effectiveness in the study. The majority of the rights for students to be entitled to the payment of various reform systems during study can also influence the borrowing needs of students when it comes to the study of the State. The majority of these points to a new disposal law on housing benefits, No. 75/2016, but this legislation means that basic financial improvements and deposit levels are dependent on the number of people of the household regardless of their age. The more part highlights the right of borrowing to obtain considerable information on the rights to borrow and the expected payment of payment and thus to enable students to make informed, conscious, long - term financial decisions. While it is important that we be able to lend a loan for a full supply, it is important that students be able to choose only partial loans in accordance with the needs and the expected remuneration capacity after study. A respectable president. The greater part is that by the change he makes, students will be enabled to accept study help while they are studying, not just thereafter, but to respond to one of the main conflicts of the student's interests over the past few years and one of the major problems of the system, to the benefit of students. In this way, a greater proportion of the items are held that the bill does not include burdensome changes in the Icelandic learning system, and much more of the student's funds will decrease, and the overall debt of the students will fall. Then, the more part shows that the state's budget will provide up to $3.3 billion annually in addition to the current loan budget in order to improve the interests of students. It's like the bill was submitted. In addition, a greater proportion of the study loans should be paid along with the provision for cost of between the years to 4.5 billion. It is absurd to argue that students are meant to pay for the increased cost of the change in system. In addition to the changes made, the majority contributes to several changes in legal principles that do not need to be explained. In view of all of this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed changes made in a special Senate document, which has been explained here. Under countless printed page. Councilmen Einarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Guðlaundur Þór Þórðarson, won Director Konráðsdóttir Konásdótttir, and Linik Anna Sævarsdóttir, chief of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-170.u2	A respectable president. I'm a seniorist in the opinion of a smaller part of the General and Education Committee in this large and controversial and extensive case. The nominee comes with a contraband. At the end of the poll, we suggest that the bill be referred back to a minister and given a cross - political consultation on a new learning loan system and a new scholarship system. I'd like to make it clear from the beginning that we, who stand for this opinion and oppose the bill, are going to establish a system of academics and student loans. I think there's a common convergence among all members of the council here at the council, that it's wise to do so. So it is with a certain sadness of the heart, a measure of reluctance, that you are standing here and will simply be after studying this matter, after a material review of it, to declare that this bill is quite impossible. It's totally fucked up. There are so many basic ideals, in my opinion and in our memory, in terms of the development of the education system in Iceland that there is no way to accept it. This is sad. As I'm saying, I think there is an entirely transnational support for establishing the mixed system of student loans and scholarships. I think it's entirely transnational support, too, to finally meet the decades-old student struggle to eliminate e.g. post-imbursement. There's a string of things and a lot of things about the student loan system in this room. That's why I don't understand why it's the highest. A minister of education did not, as we have done during this terms in large, important matters, such as the year 2000. A review of the laws of foreigners, the foreign bill, and a review of the transnational consultations of all classes here at the General Assembly on a new learning loan system. We could sit here and vote for a new advanced student loan system, a combination of scholarships and loans, who respected basics, such as human equality for learning regardless of the economy. That would have been great. I hope you learn the highest. Ministers and others in the top of the board are, for this reason, that it is always better to consult. Especially when there is evidence that there is strong parapolitic agreements on certain basics. What's wrong with this bill? The big, important point is that these countries are being cut to the basic point that they are equal to their education regardless of their economic situation. There are no new ones, more money put in the student loan system according to the bill. That's not the basic thought here. They're here to play with the money they can buy. But they're transferred. Now, all students, including students who so far have not needed assistance, are to be given a scholarship. About half of the students do not accept assistance for some reason. A large part of them, I'm sure, because he doesn't need it. Now all these students are to be given a scholarship of 65 yous. K. a month before taxation. All right. Who's gonna pay for this? They're students who need student loans. School loans will be up by 200%. From 1% to 3%. That's how the funding system is being financed. There is clearly the injustice in the bill. Those who are in a bad social position, such as Single parents, so I don't talk about single parents who want to go to a long study, even a doctor's study, and therefore have to borrow a lot, will have to pay. Pay more. To help all to gain a scholarship. It would have been so much closer to designing the system, so everyone offers a favorable loan. As much as possible for study would be guaranteed so that anyone who plans to study in Iceland would offer a favorable loan for a good deal. Then we would use the strength we would introduce into this system to balance social status, to further the success of ambitious students. But that's not done on the bill. Just because of this principle, which, of course, could not be changed by the panel coverage, because there is a basis for the bill, this cannot be approved. Then there is a certain study that you take into life, a lesson, how you gradually discovered it in the work of the Committee that when the bill was submitted, you were bluffing with numbers. They were drumming the bill and saying it was such a great system that 90% of students would pay less in the future. Despite the complete removal of revenues on student loans, 90% of students remembered my favor. It took some time for us in our memory to see what was fundamental to this claim. It was quite unbelievable when it came to seeing how blatantly deceptive it was. The premise of this claim is that students will be in the new system for some reason not taking full credit. They will decide in the new system that benefits they have a right to, such as child damages and housing and possible other compensations, support, will come to the deduction of a student's loan for a dollar. It's a matter of principle. That suddenly students will decide to do this, although only 18% of students in surveys so far declare that student loans are sufficient. Schools are already appropriate, accepting support and compensation. It is totally illogical why they should be in a new system of borrowing because they accept compensation. They don't do that right now. What, then, will be the case if we consider the occurrence of students in a narrow social position who want to take full student loans in the new system as they have been doing in the old system? So the problem seems to be that a single parent with two children who are now taking a full student loan in the system we now live in and who accept compensation will need, according to the criteria of the greater part of the General and Education Committee and the Ministry, has to accept approximately 200 yrs. K. a month's supply. 200 yrs. K. reminds us of a month in study so that the claims of the greater portion on the smaller load of payment are met. Thus, it is assumed, totally illogical, that students even in a very narrow position, as if a single parent with two children are suddenly ready to take 200 points. K. reminds us of a month to support ourselves. Of course, if people make such a assumption, that people will suddenly be prepared to do this, they will find that they will pay less on future loans. This is because it is assumed that the individual will be much less fortunate. But that is not supported. It's just being thrown out. Of course, when you look at the bill with them and assume that the majority of students will use their credit rights to the full, enough is now being spent, you will find that there are very strong odds that the majority of students will pay much more on future student loans. It was now a bit to let a vocabulary rock, though, to discover in the middle of the time that this was the basis of the calculations. They were so bad. And nothing done on the part of the world to try somehow to explain it, why was such an illusion suggested? Of course, it was everyone's first concern that it must be a prime concern for study equality regardless of their economic situation to extend a scholarship to all but to increase the interest on those who need a loan. It is clear that those who need the highest loans are those who are in a difficult social position, those who have little materially. Even those who have long, ambitious studies. There are also those who have to pay school fees and borrow loans for those who will be limited, in fact, according to the bill. They'll have to pay extra interest, they'll have to pay for this adventure. Since this is the list, it is obvious that the bill cannot be supported if you adhere to any ideas of equality and minimal justice in the student loan system. In addition, in this illusion of deception, I give myself to the basic bill that we are talking about a single parent with two graduates, 27 years old. However, if the individual graduates 37 years after five years of study and may not expect high future income, perhaps he or she has been educated to operate in large government classes that do not have too much money, this will almost be an overexploited wall, for at the same time as it is being taken off the payoffs of cities is being introduced into her ages. It is suggested in the bill that everyone should have paid their student loans by the age of 67. This means that a graduate of 37 years of age, not 27 years old, needs to pay his loan in 30 years and not 40. Of course, the pay will increase. This is an extremely difficult time for people to study later in life, make it especially difficult if they are in a difficult social situation, make it extremely difficult for them if they are now in a difficult social position, and plan to pursue an ambitious advanced course of study. The emphasis is all against the basic princeship of maintaining equality for study regardless of the economy. There is no way to support such a bill, and it is good to have the opportunity to describe what opposition is. In this case of certain students'leaders, it is no fun to get statements from outside town, arguing that in the lesser part we are trying to stop this case over some political fox at the end of the council. It's not like that. The lines in this case have to do with absolutely basic analyses in politics. I'll figure it out so that the government doesn't understand what the term is. She doesn't know how to try to match people's positions. She thinks it's equal to giving everyone a scholarship to 65 thousand. She thinks it's equal. Of course, it is not equal if the scholarship is paid, so people in a bad social situation must have to pay for it. And it's all in the same government book. They go out of their way to try in some way to help those who can be strongly convinced that they need no special help, that they are just doing good things, at the expense of those who really need help. If we look at the situation so that people will make full use of their right to student loans and take full loans along with the scholarship in the course of study, which group will come out of this bill? What group will enjoy paying less than a month in future loans? Singles who live in their parents'homes. They're gonna make a good deal of this. That's the focus. Why? Why is this emphasis? Why are we not trying to help those who are experiencing a crisis, a narrow position? Why don't we put on a bill where we try, for example. to help those who come from abroad who find housing in the city and may even have to pay much more because they come abroad for an education in the capital? Why do we not try to help people in particular who have children in school? Why do we not try to help people who may decide later in life, but the average average is to pursue an education? Do you even decide to re-established after some great blow in your life? Why don't we have a bill like that? A bill that helps those who really want to pursue long - term education, a doctor's education in high school abroad, and who need help? Why are we making such limits to all these people? What's the measure? I don't quite get it. These limits are all built so that everyone can get this scholarship to 65 thousand. It's great to distribute money in that way. But he's only paid that price, that strength. We need to pay for this strength with all the absurd limitations that have no business in a natural, ambitious, academic loan system that tries to ensure equality for study and to help students seek ambitious education. As a result, we must try to direct people to school, which, according to some short - term items, is more profitable than others. It just has to be. That's all I can see. In fact, there were reviews from the professional representatives who were happy that students were directed to studies that were profitable. This thought also goes completely against what I believe is supposed to be a good and just system for learning. The study bar system is designed to contribute to diversity. According to one's own ambition, they should encourage people to seek education according to their own interests. People are to be encouraged and helped to pursue their dreams, to activate their talents, regardless of whether the person sees that they become something very rich about this study. Which group is it, e.g. ... whoisprobablybad from this bill? Art students. Art students do not often ride a fat horse from monthly salary requirements and artists in the community, even though they have high value. They have school fees to pay, often skyscrapers. Our finest artists who make it into the great art university of abroad have to run a stream of high costs at school and here at home, too, at the National Art University of Iceland. Now the loans to school are to be limited. Obviously, this is a group who will need loans for school but will have to pay more because they grow bigger. Here it is just for those who are in a poor financial position. Useful, specific, means that the bill is trying to make more money from people who are financially poor. There's something else. The bill is so clearly composed by sources within the Icelandic loan fund. That, on its own, is critical. The loan fund itself, LIN, is not supposed to be writing a bill about LIN. The bill on LIN should be written by us sitting here in a council hall, with the ideals of this case, providing us with a school loan system as a basic education investment. But this bill bears such an incredible testimony that it is prepared by LIN to defend its narrow interests. I'm gonna trace it a little bit. Where in the bill are the WIN hidden too much authority to implement distribution rules, further development of important issues that may be controversial in distribution procedures. All too much power is given to the board of directors. So it is, too, that LIN receives virtually abduction on those who are going to owe it in the future. LINE's requirements have an amazing place in the country's demand. THOSE can be made unconvinced and uncondemned to deserving ones. THOSE people can still demand, if indicated, an amazing responsibility. The majority absolutely refused to legalize the commitment of student loans, which are still a few in the system, although the Council decided that the responsibilities of student loans should be canceled that principle should not be binding. Which is incredible. In recent years, the loan fund of Icelandic students has included in collections for the heirs of responsibilities, even without letting them know. The loan fund of Icelandic students gives evidence that when it comes to responsible men, they do not comply with the laws, use unhuman and harsh tactics in collections, refuse to follow financial agreements on normal business practices. To put it another way, he decided that responsibility would remain solid, making good use of the law. It's not going to be a problem for the greater part of the Board of Public Education and Education. He intends to allow the loans to continue on this course despite the fact that the loans are not bound by borrowing to an heir. But the responsibility is to be settled from one responsible to the heir. What an injustice that is! A credit agent also approached the committee and traced it to a third of the creditors who are in trouble because of student loans. And it is still noted, there should not be any student loans to those in a difficult position but, rather, requirements for student loans should not grow old even if they are in bankruptcy. They're just after people with these debts. In fact, it was suggested on the bill that even if people were to experience serious tragedies in life that completely change the basis for survival, they were to be allowed to postpone the payments for three years. Then they were to pay. Even if it didn't pay for it. The Ministry and the rest, however, blessedly decided to change this. It is possible in those cases where it is obvious that a student's loan has suffered a serious trauma. Otherwise, the borrowers and responsibilities and even their Heirs are always less and less right to this institution. In the memory of the section, we recommend that we set up a set of rules in which we have a obligation to negotiate, to make peace, to creditors before it comes, before borrowing. Isn't that just natural? We also want the LAIN to be banned from selling these collection services to outsiders, into legal matters. These requirements are strong that it should be forbidden for the loan fund to issue a bill of those requirements. That cannot be settled. And especially cannot be satisfied with these harsh collections of loans now, and it is completely injected into the bill that those who will be in the greatest trouble in the future are those who are in a narrow social position. Those who have to borrow a lot of money. These foretold injections in the collections of the loan fund, which, especially for those in a difficult social situation, go a long way in making it difficult for them to do so. In some way, it affects one thing in unmanly terms. It is as if it is a very special goal to make this an inhuman system of things. It is amazing that the only social attraction written into the bill is that loan payments fall to a certain amount of time when people are buying their first apartment. It's the only coincidence. It has been attributed to other matters here that those who can buy their first apartment soon after study are mainly those who have very much between the hands, have money, and earn the first payment. Simply in the wing, they can buy an apartment. Why do they need to be especially involved in the student loan system? Especially on a bill in which those who obviously should be random in some way, people from abroad, long-term students, people in difficult social standing, are not at heart. Then this is the only group to enjoy some indiscriminate activity. Sometimes you just feel like there's been a joke about this bill. It is incredibly tragic to screw up this project that is setting up a just, fair, prospective educational loan system in Iceland. It is particularly tragic in view of the fact that, as I traced to the beginning of my speech, the most direct indication is that there is a parapolitic community inside to introduce a system that is a combination of student loans and strengthens. It would have been so slowly in this case with an interpolitic conversation, as if in other matters we were going to enter the council by means of a student loan bill that was acceptable. Sadly, though, it is not. And I hope that I have reasoned that the reasons why we in the memory of this bill are not based on political foxes, they are based on absolute fundamentals in politics, fundamental differences in categories in how to understand the term equation, understand the concept of social justice, whom to help, which is not necessarily to help, and so on the streets. The cracks of your bill are basically the basics. So it can't be approved, so that's as far as it goes. But I hope that a new government will consult a new learning loan system that is needed and we will try to look at things positively and to use them as the best that has ever been done in a global and educational committee in the past few weeks because it has certainly been useful and informative.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-170.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son for a review on the opinion of the lesser part of the General and Education Committee. Surprisingly, though, the concept of improving the bill is not to be expressed in the opinion of others rather than merely making further comments. I would like to start by asking the senator what is on the page. In a series of articles with the bill, or comments, of the cost effect. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The greatest uncertainty in evaluating increased financial expenditures turns toward funding to those entitled to study aid. [...] The increase in students who would benefit from a new system will be expected to be somewhat greater and is on the bill, in view of the fact that 503/460% of students who did not benefit from funding today's fund would make good use of the scholarship. In view of this, a significant part of this group is being studied or does not meet minimum learning requirements. Thus, as many as twice as twice as many students are expected to receive the funds provided by the fund. Then we will see on page 6. 48 that according to the increase in the financial expenses of the state, as many as 2.3 billion will be the 60% of students who are not borrowing today who will take advantage of their grants. I would simply like to ask the senator, for I heard from him that he did not think that it was being added to his support, whether he agrees that it was expected in the bill that it might be 2.3 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-170.u4	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. First of all, we haven't talked about how to improve the bill. Criticism is totally focused on basics, such as my understanding that the more part doesn't want to change. That's even. this, to increase interest in student loans and thus increase the cost of those who need them in an effort to finance the scholarship system. That's what needs to be changed. We also asked the committee: Was it e.g. Think about canceling the income connection from the payments? Maybe she'll change something, but try to keep her on top of the sponsoric system? Perhaps it would have been possible to meet us in our memory. Also, lowering the interest on these loans and putting in more money. But that was not the case. There was something else about the basics of this case that could have been changed but was not willing. Regarding the question: Is 2 billion put in there if everyone takes advantage of the scholarship? There must be an advance notice to the claim that 2 billion will be put in, because on the basis of the bill, as I shave, I think I'm pretty clearly in my speech, it is assumed that people will not take a full loan. That important groups in the student loan system, here are groups that need much to support themselves as single parents, will not take full loans. It is assumed on the basis of the bill that students in general will not take full loans because they get this strength and because they will suddenly be ready to make benefits come to the deduction of student loans. A dollar for a dollar. This is illogical. The reason for this to happen was not reviewed. Thus, the total cost of this system cannot be determined in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-170.u5	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. My opinion is that there will clearly be additional funds within the system to meet the strengths. It is very well explained on page 19. Then I'd like to direct one question to the senator. How does one of my colleagues feel it is possible to distinguish between those who are reasonable and those who should not enjoy it? Is that some point of takeout? Is it where people live? Something like that? Then I would like to ask the senator about the facts that are attributed to a bill on the sums of the student loans. This is actually the information on these pages and in Table 4 that tells us the most that only a small percentage of students at any given time uses the roof that is now being placed on the student loans. The examples that were included in the examples we examined at the Committee meetings and traced to a bill with the bill are examples based on information from the fund's credit collection now and therefore based on reality. Does my executive figure think it's not right?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-170.u6	A respectable president. No. I think this calculation is misleading. We simply need to look at the examples. It was very valuable in the committee to consider examples of a person who has two children, what they are taking now, what they pay in pay on a certain basis for earning money, since income is now linked to payments. And with regard to graduating at 27 years of age and taking full student loans, such as people now do in delicate groups, and then how such a person would lean off in the new system. The result is uninterrupted. Such a person, in a difficult, narrow social situation, with little between his hands, pissed off. That's just the way it is. You can try to deal with it with some average bill or something, but this is the fact. It's bad that people who are in a narrow position are worse, people who earn less than average have worse. It hurts. There's a flaw in this bill. How would I want to share my scholarship, they asked me too. How should we evaluate who is to be given strength, and who should not? These are the questions we always have when we give money from the government to strengthen or improve. The only way we're going and the way I'm going to believe that if we're going to expand or recover, we should watch them try to level people's social status. I feel that the loan should be offered to everyone, as they will always be. This ensures that all can make a living for study. The learning bar should be favorable, cheap, and subsidized by the public. Because education is an investment. But because of the limited amount of money, I feel that since it is time to level social status, the position of those outside the country to meet those in the capital and so forth. [[The president calls.]] And to encourage us in the course of study.
