ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Culture asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1138, about a meeting, from the Brynhi of Pétursdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u2	A respectable president. I know it's Icelandic, but I'm still going to say, "Goddday to v avre norske korceer, from Storringett, who's here at the council. I'm asking for respect in foreign. What I want to do today is a competitive bank market, and not for the first time. Usually, at any rate from my hand in this sermon, I have felt that things were not all right there, that it was a competition that would badly affect Icelandic consumers who paid too much on expenses and interest. This situation, which I think is unnatural and does not describe free competition, leads to the profit of banks, which can well be reasoned whether there is not too much, and that there is a need to be more balanced. The good news is that Iceland's bank has been tearing up this bramble sleep and cutting down loans for buyers who buy houses for the first time. Also, the very important bank has made it available on the Internet, where you can fill it out and receive it by means of an electronic signature. But one percent of the loan fees is just a lot of money and I'm sure it means a lot to those who invest in their own housing for the first time. This is where the bank responds to the pleas that have been made that the customers must be higher than they are now. That is why, for example, when the right time comes for us to have a foreign bank that leads to competitiveness, which I feel is a real lack in the bank market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm going to call attention to an international conference that was this week in Harpa. On the one hand, there was a international conference on the use of fossils and a concomitant conference on the SPI Pentateuch, which is a short excerpt, the Social Progress Index, an assessment of social infrastructure and social progress. Of course, there won't be time now to get very close to that index, I might do it later. During the conference, visitors from all over the world, some 40 countries, and, of course, our main members in this field were involved. This is the third geothermal convention here, the first of 2010, and is a sign of how long we are in this field with a variety of uses of geothermals, but no less this is a sign of successful clustering in this field. This was Michael Porter's idea, professor at Harvard University, when he visited Iceland in 2009. Good things happen when scientists and scholars, representatives of the government, administration, and business life come together. But I have to say, what is missing to follow this great postwaral activity is a public policy. An example of a successful group of self - stockers is the Icelandic euphemism, the sea icicle, and the tourism. I'm encouraging the government and the Directorate-Professor in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u4	V.E.G. President. People here have been talking about unprecedented social conditions, and this is justified because there is an unprecedented success here. At the beginning of the ideal period, there were about 30 billion dollars. A limp on a government fund. There has become a complete reversal and a permanent hold on the affairs of the State. With intense economic control, inflation has remained below 2.5% for two years. The results you can look at and really matter to the country, because there has been more and more money available here and more quickly than the previous examples in history. In fact, as many as 30% as three years as possible, there has been a financial growth in other countries, when we speak of an annual raise of 2%. V.E.G. President. I have found it in my conversations with the people of the country that the people of the country truly feel better and appreciate the stability that has existed here. Then I'd like to point out that so successful has been the solution from the economic collapses and the effects of the imprisoned banks that the population's foreign status is now better than it has been for half a century. The government's policies and actions against the fencers and demands for decommissioning have been so successful that the world's greatest international authority in the area of social debt, Buchheit Buuchy, reports that the results are unique in the financial history of the world. Here is unemployment, with the least measured and the debt of the households as a share of provisions has become one of the best in the Northern countries following the administration of the government in the past three years. This certainly does remember the successful economic action that the correction was due. It can be said that this is an unprecedented situation, for during a miraculous period of time, it has been able to build a solid foundation for the massive infrastructure that needs to be continued. V.E.G. President. There is no demand for reconstitution and instability.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u5	Mr. President. No, it is not advertised for chaos, but it is dominant, and that is what people have repeatedly protested. It is of great importance that the Executive Director of the Agency, who did not consider it a reason for the Commission to move away from their connections to deportations - that said the highest. Prime Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson and he think it is only respectable for the manager to resign from his job because it was in order not to bring reproach on the forward party and he thanked him for a good job. The manager himself said that he would retire because the discussion was so harsh and uniform, but there was no recognition that he had violated the law or worked in a dishonest way. A respectable president. We are talking about the prime minister of the country who has said and declares that it is acceptable to have money and possessions on taxes. However, this led to the resigning of the president of his party. What's with all this crap? The Secretary of Economics and Economics is virtually saying that it's okay to be in the tax industry, end of Iceland, such as the Minister's tax field. He considers it acceptable as soon as he intends to have his hands tied up with selling out the property of the weeds with which the people live. It seems insignificant to him that all who have property and money in taxes are put under the same hat. It is as if the secretary of the tax does not understand that there is no way for the Icelandic tax authorities to fully verify whether taxes are paying themselves. It is up to the owners of these municipalities whether they will submit all data, and in some places, it is not even a yearly accounting requirement. The secretary who doesn't understand the struggle must fight the existence of a tax host to resign. It is vital that we take up the public study that we will discuss afterward. Of course, I hope the council approves the request. For some reason, people feel that it is more convenient to own property and money from taxes. [[The president calls.]] It's not a de-hide-bar. It's clear that those with more respect are those who don't pay their share to the community. Regular employees do this and accept added loads to reach that end. [[The president calls.]] It's all around this government that smells like corruption and it's supposed to go away.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u6	Mr. President. An official investigation of the development of a foreign partner is absolutely necessary. We need to know how they came into existence and where the money came from. We know they're more than 5 of you. The billions that the Icelandic banking system borrowed from the stock market collapse continued to borrow into holding companies. In 2008, the so - called Gervimann from abroad was the second - largest currency of Icelandic enterprises of 2,239 million. In addition, in that year, six of the ten biggest profiters were found in British Virgin Islands or were founded abroad by the Icelanders. No one knows what money the landowners have earned from these partners. In 2006, a counterfeiter was paid the highest rate of interest by individuals up to 1,234 million. K. He also received the highest income two years later. In 2007 the artificial man received 2,09 million. K. and 2008 2,239 million. K. ... infringement. These and other information on a synthetic outlands can be found in Volume 9. As a result of the fine report, most of us should read again and apply the adjustments that are presented and have not been responded. Now we've got names of some of the fakes, and some of them have familiar faces. Some people act as if, in some cases, communities are needed for business, but they are wrong. They are always there to hide and avoid tax returns, including the society once owned by the highest power. Secretary of finance. There is no way to accept that billions have been removed from the country just before collapse and kept under cover while governments and the public wrestled with the consequences of the crash, had tax increases and cuts in all areas in order to save a government fund from bankruptcy, and defend the welfare system. As soon as the rest of us paid his share to the community, a fake foreigner escaped well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to call the attention of the United States Congress to a major promoter mentioned in the news magazine today. Her name is Storgaard Square. She has worked hard to protect children from accidents, a project that once belonged to a surgeon, but she seldom received money that was due. This fine pioneers decided to go away on their own and to start their own business in order to continue the way she started on the safety and disaster prevention of children. For a time many rural communities were afraid of that name, Storgaard Squared, when she came and took out a playground and a day's house and pointed to the obvious dangers in those places, and thought that her claim to improve safety at that front was too high. Nevertheless, most of the rural society's successes came from this fine woman and the safety of her children, mainly children, whether in playgrounds at school or in high school, have been greatly improved. Now this fine pioneers are introducing their foreign assignments and are well acquainted. I'm sorry, Mr President, but it turns out that the Central Center of Children's Accidents is supported by only two companies in Iceland and not a dollar from rural areas in the country, nor by the state to this important activity. So I want to direct them to what I say. The legal committee considers whether this aspect of the safety of children and teenagers does not belong in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u8	V.E.G. President. More recently, it was reported that the credit card company paid off 2.2 billion dollars. ... incharactermoney. This remuneration to the owners of cities once again shows how devastating it was for the governor of the Lands Bank to sell the share of the state of City as a closed trade process without any others being found there. This, in addition to the way the national bankers have driven from one war to another in an effort to justify this act, has led to a greater proportion of former banking agencies, including the former chairman of the council, a well - chosen gentleman. But it wasn't the former U.S. Bank Board of Bank that sold Borg into a closed trade. It was not the National Bank Council that decided that the object should be sold to the first person who knocked on the door, for a price that was not known which was acceptable, and then it has been found to be unacceptable. It was the bank manager and commander of the Lands Bank who sold this object to the sale. They're still sitting. The government's banking agencies have made such serious comments to bank executives in this case that I cannot see how the bank's bank office, appointed the next day, will avoid making changes in the administration of the bank so that the bank can have relative trust and trust. It doesn't matter whether the bank manager and his colleagues will sue in an effort to get back some of the mistakes they made. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't matter. The government of the National Bank needs to be replaced on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u9	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, I had a conversation with students at the South American High School. The occasion was political days at school. Many of them asked if the house - to - house system had to be changed, too expensive to rent. That's right, and I was able to tell them that the General Assembly was now a long way off on the premises, but their objective is to ensure that all homes are affordable. Many of them got their conversations about negative talk in community media and asked: "Is everything going well? Why are so many angry? Those were sincere questions. You see, me and the Icelanders are doing pretty well. We have managed to pay off the debt of the state funds and the status of the fund is now better than ever before. The correction of debt and the plan for delinquency have had a very positive effect on the national structure. A few days ago, we received reports that the state fund produced an unexpected drop of more than 70 billion dollars. 70 billion are a lot of money, and I would have liked to see more coverage on the meaning of it for society. Despite the success of the government, the list of projects will never be emptied. We need to continue to strengthen our health. In fact, we've improved significantly over the last three years, but better if it's done. We also have to give a great deal of attention to transport, but according to the existing transport programme, the government's policy is to add several billion years of activity to the task, so we are on the right track. The government's doing a great job. The results are measurable, and they are good. However, the government continues to call for a breach and election in the name of the nation. The people I know don't want Congress and elections, and they don't want any more of the Generals. We're in a hurry. V.E.G. President. There's something really wrong with the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u10	A respectable president. I take very seriously the reports of demurries and tax frauds related to them, and I want every advice to be given to get to the bottom of those matters and to bring down the guilty ones to the courts. I trust in the surveillance agencies responsible for these matters, and I want to trust their legislation to clear the mess out of the bank and financial system responsible for the entire Tortole piece of shit. During the council, let us press forward. We Icelanders have ideal conditions for moving ahead in many areas, and we can continue to improve the interests of households rather than tear down the instruments of unity and confusion in our society today. A respectable president. It is a sign of danger that we should guard against when confronted with turmoil and division in our community. The government's run a government fund with no regard to the entire election period, dropping tax and customs, raising money, and increasing the pay. We've reduced taxes on the public and the company, we've increased taxes on a financial enterprise, and we've continued to improve the quality of the economy and the older citizens with new social security laws, a battle that is going on, and is one of the big issues that this council needs to complete. The bill for payment and the health - care equation provided by the health secretary is a good first step. It shows that up to 39 of you. Children's families in the country can go through the system with a reference without paying a dollar. According to a social quality of life and the health of society, Iceland is in the 4th place of 133 countries behind Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. A respectable president. Icelandic society is in a major quest for better life in the country according to all measurable landmarks, and we don't have to argue about it. Will we lose this opportunity to resort to mutual divisions and confusion of society? I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u11	A respectable president. The government is not the top priority for people who work with people who work for them. It has now provided its list of priorities, and it does not establish the United Nations Treaty on the rights of disabled people or the implementation of EU regulations on the ban on discrimination. Even if there is a case, they do. The prohibition against discrimination was established in the European Union in 2000. It has now been 16 years without the rights of disabled people being legalized in Iceland. The 153 kingdoms of the world have validated the United Nations covenant for the rights of disabled people. Iceland is one of the countries at the end of this series. We are one of four European states that have not guaranteed the rights of disabled people under the covenant of the United Nations. Why is this foolish? Why are people who are disabled not at the top of the government? They're all there is, there's nothing to do except bring them in and accept them. But we'll find priority on wood and timber products, a respectable president. Yes, and we find European directives from 2013 when it comes to economic issues because they are priorities. I challenge members of all classes who want to work on the rights of disabled persons to protest the priorities of the government and to insist that the spontaneous human rights of disabled people who have been legalized throughout Europe and as three fourths of all the states of the world have already been validated, also in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u12	V.E.G. President. Why not appreciate what we say instead of following it? Following standards brings certain risks. But whether there is isolation of the country or otherwise, according to new international indicators on social quality, prosperity, cities, and territories, Iceland now has a fourth place in 133 countries on earth. This was mentioned at a conference held in Harpa yesterday. Ideas with the list are things that are most important to people, such as health care, education, equality, and religion. This quality of life today is not automatic at all. I'd like to say to the youths I teach: You're the youths who have the best on earth. I often wondered if they truly believe that fact. I am concerned, however, that when it comes to higher education options, we do not measure up to what might be expected. You see, the key to continuing prosperity is a good and meaningful education at any given time, not in quantity, but in quality and variety, to appreciate each work, all that each individual puts into the community as a link in the chain of time. We are together responsible for one another's happiness, for the work of human society, as at the World Council. We were told yesterday from the Business Association that there should now be increased freedoms and private affairs in the education and health systems, energy sector, financial systems, and that the state should sell its share in its holdings, such as the banks, the Cheflavour airports, the ATVR and energy companies, for example. All of this is about a wise mixed economy, not to think that because we are doing well now, we should sell with short - term interest in ourselves, but to look closer, enjoy, and appreciate our existence and do better, for at the same time when there is an inequities among nations, there is an inequities. And again: It is education that is the key to today's wealth. So let us be a question without obvious answers. That's how we always come to the most reasonable conclusion, even at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u13	A respectable president. Dr. Michael E. Porter is one of the known economists in the world. He's a professor at Harvard University. He was here at an interesting conference in Harpa yesterday. He was there introducing a new indicator test for communities. Today we speak even. The cost and production of our measurements. The new index is called a social calculus. It measures the results we're going to achieve. It makes citizens more active in all community talk and is a measure of it. Iceland, according to Michael Porter's conclusion, is in the fourth place in the world, followed by Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. This is a detailed method, in effect, to measure the health of our community, the health of our society. This is a new approach to economics on how citizens can be active in their society, what the city's circumstances are. It is, of course, a tremendous joy of success and shows the situation in Icelandic society in a completely new light. I think we here at the High Council should pay attention. Those who choose to be here for the day to constantly discuss the situation with themselves, and in a negative way, they should pay attention to the situation in Icelandic society. I think it's time for people to take up a business discussion instead of the dishonest discussion that we witness and play a major role in the location of the World Council of Honour among the people. [[The president calls.]] Sensuous governmental opposition often uses such methods to try to create confusion and dissatisfaction. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is time for us to turn around and take a serious thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u14	A respectable president. It is interesting to hear that words such as uncertainty and resolution are being used at an increasing rate here on the platform. However, this would not be part of a campaign that is likely to begin. What I wanted to talk about is how we're working on a case at the Council. I especially want to, because it is not always easy to commend this government and has not been, to commend the former Minister of the Interior, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, for the way she handled the new alien law. Coming into the Ministry, continuing with an already active job, appointing a transliterian group to win that case, trying to do it in harmony, that's a good example. I don't understand that Ministers don't do any more of this. When you review this long list of Governments, you see all kinds of cases. For example, there is a bill about LIN, the loan Fund of Icelandic students. I would have thought it was a typical case in which we should work cross-cutting together, and I think everyone would agree that the LIN needs to be changed. There are many things that are not good. As we put more cross political agreements on the law, the less likely we will be to circle them and change them. Therefore, I would like to encourage those who remain here at the High Council and even sit on the minister's chair to work in another way. We are the kin because we have opinions. We'd like to take part in molding policy, but our role as members of Congress is, in fact, more or less, just taking over the bills that the Ministry has already negotiated. We're not really in any date-only job here. To do so, you basically have to become a minister. There's nothing wrong with it and just respect for being a senator, but you're supposed to be able to have more influence as a senator than the case today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u15	V.E.G. President. I would like to discuss only the situation that has existed in society recently and the situation that has existed during the great General Assembly. I'd also like to mention that ever since I became a senator over three years ago -- yesterday was the 3-year anniversary of our senators who are new at the council - I have always encouraged that the government and the Council would have consulted with the people in the community, much more consultation with all stakeholders, calling everyone to the table to try to find solutions to the community that can make peace. Unfortunately, it has not been the case, but I can totally agree with those council members who have come up and said that things are going well here. But there are many things that are not going well too. The uncertainty, divisions, and suspicions that have been found in society since collapse have not been shocked, unfortunately. I think it should have been one of our main issues here at the council trying to make peace. I can tell you of my deepest heart that I am not pleased with the position that exists. I'm not happy that the government is in these matters. But it is still in these matters, and it doesn't matter that everything may be going up in the economy. I say, and have said before, the most important thing in human relationships is trust, especially in politics. That's what people are protesting. That's what people call after, that we here, the 63 of us here, including the government, renew our commission so we can start over, because we have to do it again. I don't think there's too much aggression in the government, or whatever you want to call it, to ask the government to handle maybe ten cases that could be settled in spring and then to vote as early as August or early as September. It can't be aggressive because it is without a clear demand for the public to choose a price and that we all renew our authority here, all as one. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u16	V.E.G. President. I want to agree with what. 1st. That's the north side. who earlier told his teenagers whom he taught that he thought they had the best of things here on earth. This is exactly what I said to him. A senator when I taught him years earlier. It's a pleasure to see how the message spreads. Afterward, we will expect to agree with the policies and procedures of mental health health care for the next four years, and that is well with us. However, I would like to point out that one particular group that I have had a great deal with is often having trouble, and there are youths in high school. Now it has been observed that up to 5% of the subjects have ADHD. It can be said that high in 10% of high school students have a variety of mental disorders. Therefore, I believe it is of utmost importance that the Ministry of Education and the Health and Health Ministry cooperate and implement a work policy with these young people. It is important for us to have as many healthy individuals in our community. We need every working hand in the end. As our forefathers said, "a healthy soul in a healthy body. " That's what we're all going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u17	Mr. President. What a joy it is that we are here to vote for a Senate resolution that involves mental - health policy and a four - year plan of action! I want to take this opportunity and thank you for everything. A health minister for a keen progress in having this program developed. I thank the welfare committee for great work, but especially the dozens of reports and visitors who assisted the case. In recent years, there has been a great awakening in the discussion of mental health and their importance and that this is much more common, that we are dealing with spirituality, but in general the discussion has continued until the last few years. This is the first step, and really important, but in the years ahead, we have to take a much more bold step, and I hope that the cooperation at the Council will be as good as the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u18	Mr. President. I'm glad we're in place to accept first-class and mental health action programme. As a member of a welfare committee, we agree that this is a good first step, but there is, of course, more to it. These measures must be followed by health care and higher schools, where psychologists will be hired to build a powerful, multidisciplinary team, and so forth. I want it to be so directed to the highest. Ministers that this policy may be, well, perhaps not immediately, but very soon revised so that within two years there is a plan for the next four year schedule and will appear before the council where the policy programme in the package will have been strengthened so that it is not primarily to be discussed with a particular date but to the whole policy programme. It would be desirable to move this into the process that in a regular way such a course and plan of action would be updated every two years and that we would always have a four - year schedule in front of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u19	A respectable president. I'm especially glad we're handling this case here today, thanking the health minister, too, for his access to the case. To my judgment, we must embrace and help the children and young people who suffer from mental illness, but that group is, unfortunately, growing each year. We must hold these matters in our hands and not let down our hands. Although this is a good first step, this must be the beginning of something more because we want to get to the bottom of this problem and we want our children here to feel good, not just physically, but spiritually. I encourage the entire U.S. Senate to support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u20	Mr. President. I agree with them. This joyful first step in the course and course of mental health health care has been discussed by members of the council here. Thank you very much. A health minister for putting the matter into practice. As noted, this is the first step and very important first step. As noted in a report published in February on mental - health services in children and adolescents, pots are broken in these cases. We really need to spit in our hands to deal with mental health problems in Iceland. As noted, some 38% of those in disability have suffered from spiritual illness, so much work is to be done. We shouldn't worry much about how much money we put into this, because it's an investment. Money introduced into mental - health matters at an early stage brings a number of results - research has shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u21	A respectable president. We will soon take to heart the first significant government strategy for reforming mental health care, and I will welcome that step. I'd like to give special attention to two aspects of this, one on the other hand, that in this committee's opinion it stresses that a special, multi-disciplinary health team for deaf and deaf, and that sign language will be used in this specialized health team. This is of utmost importance in the work being done here as well as the emphasis laid on meeting children and young people who have a mental disorder with early intervention because our system, health care, social services, and schools are all capable of doing so with money. I challenge the whole world of Congress to make this case a success.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u22	A respectable president. What a joy it is to see the long - term exposure of our first mental - health program! On that occasion, I would like to thank the welfare committee especially for the well-worked and, as well, the head of the welfare committee, why. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Inglegu, who was, in fact, the founder of this case by the transfer of a synonym on which the policy is based here. This work shows us, it's good to remember that, despite all of this, very good things can be achieved by the council. It's a pleasure and good thing to do. We now have some foundation to build on. This is certainly the first step, but this foundation gives the good position of those who want to observe, push on things, provide government resources, and bases for making further decisions. I agree with the words in question. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon earlier that it is necessary to reconsider this course within the age of two. He recommended that the person standing here do so, and I expect them to be very supportive. A senator on that assignment. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Thank you very much. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u23	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a hearing on the investigation of Iceland's Off-countries and tax collections made by a panel of the left movement, a whole of green initiatives. The occasion is clear and has been discussed both here and abroad since the information received from the so - called Panama documents and was discussed earlier in this month and in the past month as well. As for the left movement, we have talked about this debate starting at the General Assembly, which was actually the week when a statement made by the former prime minister of Gróa's wife á her Leiti; that Gróa á Leiti was involved in her arrival; and hence their couple as an African society. It was a response to the highest-relevant discussion. Prime Minister who was then sent to Cestlight Factors three weeks later, i.e. From March 11, until three weeks later, it was the sole highest. On the matter, the prime minister and his wife put this statement together on Facebook. The occasion was much, much larger than that response, and in fact, the occasion was so large that I think that we, who are at the National Assembly, are all responsible, in covering this matter in a way that Iceland is a pleasure. Sadly, under similar circumstances in Iceland, we have not always been blessed with stringed responses. In this case, we have a special problem where there are a total of four European ministers in Panama and three of them in Iceland. Without taking a position on the scope of the case, however, one of the three advisers in Iceland has claimed to be a minister, is still a member of the general body, and is still the chairman of one of the administrations and thus a full involvement in politics and the above, discussing. There remains the strange situation where the minister of the tax matters that are also found in the Panama Documents has reasoned in a way that if the individual, whoever he is, so he himself, pays taxes, and the duties of his community's administration, the case of the individual would be in doubt. This is a definition and assessment, which is really unique. It is an isolated example that a president of the West government who is dealing with such issues will choose this decision in his language. The recent study of the tax industry indicates that in itself the tax industry is harmful, the tax industry and its existence are harmful to itself. Tax snow is a tax fraud of such magnitude that no one can really figure that out. Tax snow is the place of those who want to get away from related to their ethnic background. It is a place where crime and money produced by crime are mixed up in the secret treasure of big companies and capitalists, and thus whitewashed. The blog on Indriði H.. The Þorláksson son of a former government tax manager has a lot of experience and knowledge in this field. So when a business that isn't a crime and isn't about the poor money, when it's stored in taxes, it's a front, not just a tax robe, but a front for crime. Therefore, those who take their money through such organizations are participants. Therefore, OECD is being used in a consistent way in an effort to protect itself against all tax activities. Now, finance ministers of five of Europe's largest economic systems; Britain, Germany, France, Italy, and Spain have agreed that the countries will share their information on corporate hidden owners and funds registered in taxes. This effort is to demonstrate the actual actions of these nations in order to counteract the effects of tax appeals. According to the British Ministry of Economics, on Science's web, a contract between countries will make it harder for rich individuals and companies to avoid paying the right taxes. The objective is even to examine the possibility of some kind of action if the lack of success is not better, such as making commercial pressure. The proposal presented here, and I have high expectations for good and material treatment at the council is about research. It reads, with President's permission: The Council concludes to have a study of the mass and activities of members associated with the Icelandic, individual and legislators in the tax industry, which has been defined by the Economic and Development Institute, OECD, and the Icelandic government. In order to complete the order of the President of the General Commission, Article 1. track No. 68/2011. The NTSB has four members, plus a chairman who has expertise in international, financial, and tax transactions. The Committee lists all demation societies, anywhere in the world, that have been linked to or connected to Icelandic countries. It will be published at the end of the Committee's Special Community Association of All concerned where the names of concerned partners and individuals and information on the location of the tax authorities. The NTSB will provide information and results to the government and other authorities on the current level of activity. In September 2016, the board of directors submits a report on the Icelandic Member States, but the final report by 31 December 2016, which includes an assessment of the extent of national activity and its impact on Icelandic society. Of course, the assessment of this extent is an enormously important factor. And go ahead, with President's permission: At the same time, the General Council concluded to hide financial and economic secretarys from forming a special research group that covers tax costs and other non-statutory activities, such as money laundering, which may have occurred with societies based on the information and results of the research committee. The study team operates with an established tax head and tax investigator on the grounds of the tax investigator's decision. A financial and economic minister will see to it that funds are made from state funds to finance additional staff of specialists and other staff needed by the head of the state tax and tax investigator to work for the research team and the tax authorities involved. An tax investigator submitted a work report and results of the study group with indications of improvements to the President of the Generals by the end of August 2017. The report says that as the information began to spread, all of us became aware of a number of foreign companions in tax documents linked to Icelandic citizens. Still, not all information has been published in the literature, but it has already been found that Icelandic citizens have established such societies to a far greater extent than those in neighboring lands. This on its own is a good reason for this to be handled by the Council in a handsome way. It is worth noting that this information is contained in a database linked to only one Icelandic financial agency, so it can be regarded as as the next sure possession of Icelanders as far as possible, as there were more financial companies working here at the time most of the development of societies. It also points out that the swelling of financial companies that fell in the fall of 2008 may provide information on domestic involvement with the share of other financial companies. In view of how well this role of an African partner seems to have been in the US budget, it is important that the Icelandic government make a determined and handsome subject to obtaining information about a number of such associates in order to find out what is necessary for the public and the Icelandic government. This information could lead to reevaluation of taxes as well as the law of homes, but under any circumstances, government and public information on the financial activities of the Icelanders of nationalities will increase. Information and information, which will reveal the extent and function of an ethnic group related to the Icelanders, should be used to exploit such associates and is therefore suggested that the research team go over and measure tax pay on the financial resources in such communities and pay attention to whether they may have been used for illegal activity, such as money theft, which is then the subject of local prosecutors. It is suggested that the group offer suggestions and suggestions to the government on the improvement of the errors that may arise. Of course, the effects of taxes are different, and they can increase the wealth of money owners who save their money there to escape taxes in their country, but the funds they raise to the capitalors for these reasons are lacking in a tax divorce in their homeland, which will result in a lack of financial access or welfare. Of course, it is the cornerstone of all informed welfare countries to live under the most transparent and powerful tax collectors and righteous ones. Thus, tax sea not only revolves around the state of each State but is designed to increase and maintain the division of wealth in the world. It is to preserve profit, as mentioned earlier, by various illegal activities that take place in the public, such as arms and drug sales, such as prostitution and human trafficking. Tax snow undermines the well - being and prosperity of communities that see after the money that becomes available there. The Economic and Development Institute, OECD, and its various member organisations, such as G7, G8 and G20, have for years participated in and organize them to counteract the activities of the tax industry, and Iceland is a participants in the measures, specific, well-signed measures at the highest level. In fact, the secretary of finance has signed his own hand if his words are recorded in a chamber yesterday, i.e. OECD's campaign against the business of tax queens. In 2006, the North countries began working to coordinate their actions against the Norwegian Ministers' taxes. The main factor is the two - side agreement with the states that host tax collections and information relating to property and tax divorce. The international cooperation of Iceland on tax issues, both in the OECD area and in the Norwegian Ministers and in various other Member States, has led to a number of agreements on information given on tax issues in recent years in Iceland. Of course, the measures taken to counteract these effects are involved, and we need to maintain and increase the effectiveness of these measures. However, no particular attempt has been made to find out the extent to which such activities were being carried out during the years that were most successful in financial affairs in this country, or what the scope is, or the impact of tax skills on Icelandic society, but they need to be specifically evaluated. This proposal suggests that this will be done to make the truth manifest, and the necessary measures will be made to undermine the economy of the land and the profit of its resources and the work of its citizens hidden in the dark, financial systems of the world. The goal of the Parliamentary arrangement is, therefore, to inform the extent and impact of tax activity on Icelandic society and efforts to establish laws against those who have mistakenly earned money from their fellow citizens and society all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u24	Mr. President. The Panama Documents revealed a problem in an Icelandic society that was much deeper and apparently losing much longer than anyone had anticipated. I must say exactly as it is, based on the scope of that language in Icelandic society, considering how it has stirred up in our minds at the Council and also among the people of the United States, I find it hard to believe that in this discussion it is not the highest. Secretary of the budget or the highest. Prime Minister, attend. I don't think that's possible, especially in view of the highest. The secretary of finance has expressed himself on these suggestions in a way that requires that he come here to explain his opinion more clearly. My first question to why. The senator is: She is going to be the first messenger of this matter at the highest level. A minister of finance who has surmised over how little the matter of Congress is needed here? I don't think it's an offer from any man or dog. Mr. President. I believe, in view of the highest. The minister of finance has virtually declared his blessing on what he calls a healthy tax contest, and he has to come here and realize it. There's something else that's the highest. Secretary of finance has said, he has said, in effect, that this proposal is not needed, as it has been repeatedly with me. He has referred to two factors, first of all, the information exchange agreements that we have. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon made the last term, as well as the CFC rules. He says that this is, in effect, enough to come into the hands and perhaps legalize the tax booths that have hidden their money in foreign accounts. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on her stand on this one objective moisture at the highest level. Secretary of finance: Does she think these devices are going far enough? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She believes that there are grammatical reasons that would be sufficient for the ultimate. Clearly, the minister of finance is not going to come up to the discussion or support it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u25	President. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree that it is unacceptable that a minister of finance is not present at this discussion, but as the senator points out, it was repeated yesterday by both material remarks and ridicule, that this proposal would not benefit the matter. In fact, there was the underlying tone of finance minister in all such matters that no major text analysis was required to realize that he was primarily talking about himself, i.e. To divorce tax fraud, it was tax fraud, not the business of a foreign partner in taxes. He chooses to define the problem in a way that fits his position, which is completely unacceptable. Of course, the CFC law had changed very much, and this methodology had been in the lake for years, requiring the government that it be brought to law, but it was not done until under left hand control. Why is it now that this was not done until left hand rule? The CFC law, despite the highest degree. In another way, the minister of finance puts it that we have, of course, practically legalized anggressor, puts it in such a way as to minimize the damage. This was the purpose of that law. It has also been observed that the information exchange agreements, as good as they are, do not bite with what was expected at the beginning. We find that the antiquities of the tax system really are the words of the Society, much of what they are at any given time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u26	Mr. President. We need to clean up the financial beaks that now surface here, warm up like mushrooms on a summer field. We all need to do so. We need to take this discussion. That's what's required in these sales. That is also a requirement outside the Allied Council of Iceland. Is it really so that the discussion should be carried out in this way to the highest level? Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister will simply sit at home? Is that supposed to be a monopoly of government? Is this not a matter, as it has appeared to us, that is related to other political parties rather than to those on the side of the government? But the situation right now when the clock is 20 minutes short for 12 is that there are nine people on the rosary, all of whom are out of the control position. I'm going to go. The members of the government party just to thunder this case with the mucosal thrones in their chairs? Is anyone going to come and talk about it? I believe this is a case that is one of the most important issues today in the United States and far more important than most of the cases. Government has submitted. [[The president calls.]] I believe people must be honest about this matter and participate in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u27	President. I'm very thinking about this, especially because I participated in the meeting of the council classes with the highest degree. A president where we studied the schedule for days at a meeting yesterday, including ... aboutthisdayday's program. There it came to pass that we would have the discussion in a way that would allow us to discuss the matter for two hours and that all classes would be allowed to get there. However, by the House of Congress groups, it had been removed from the arrangement and had a regular discussion of the synonym. What was that for? I thought, in my simple mind, that there were others involved, that there would be more interested members of the states would find out and could discuss this proposal with us. It seems, though, that it was the whole time that it was about letting us discuss it ourselves because the case was too contrary to the constitutions so that they would come to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u28	A respectable president. I'll take my heart with them. Yeah. The Aggressor of Össur's Skarphéðinsson and Svandís of Syggis Svavarsdóttir that it is highly unnatural not to see here representatives of the government who have had their hairs and even a half-time effort to carry the improvements in debinos and tax belts. Of course, they are to be present for this discussion. It's kind of embarrassing for them not to be seen here. But I only wanted to go inside. A senator after one of the points I see here in my report with this second excellent suggestion. It says in another paragraph on page 20. 2 that information and information should be used as a result of an investigation of the scope and function of an amendment to compromise the abuse of such communities. I've only been doing this because, in fact, I've come to that opinion, and it's only shaped in a few days, as more has been discovered, that the use of an ethnic group is always different. I want to go inside. A member of the council, depending on whether or not she might agree with me on this. The words here are addressed with caution, and they are understandable. People always try to be cautious and polite in their essays by their interpretation proposals. But in view of what has just been revealed at this point: What is the position? A senator to his relative as a freak? Are they not merely scourging for secrecy? Could it really be that it is never, although it may be legal to use it morally?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u29	President. Thank you. This is for a senator. Before answering her question, I'd like to guess, because my recent history led me to suggest that the case be referred to a management committee and a follow-up committee for discussion. Hv. A senator asks himself: " How do I feel about the tax industry in general? It's simple, as it turned out in my history, and I agree with her tip on the lip talk. My position is very clear; I believe that a tax dress in itself is harmful because it is a source of relief. By claiming that some activity is in order, they provide shelter from such serious international activities as moving on money around arms sales, mansales, and other activities that are the most serious of all society's problems. So the definition of the secretary of finance, the Icelandic secretary of finance, and the secretary of the tax, is not just news for us. It really is a global news report, i.e. that while financial ministers of the European Union and OECD and the North countries and so on, they use against the work as such the financial Ministers of Iceland speak lightly of the operation and even talk about a healthy tax competition which is partly reflected by what he calls legitimate activity in the Off-country. Iceland cannot tolerate having a financial minister who thus speaks of national activity. [[The president calls.]] It simply does not work that responsible financial ministers speak that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer and is heartily agree on this because by the operation of a relative, by allowing them, they deal with the people, it is really a mistake to all the rules of the game, allowing the release, to make it easier to remain secret, and to distranslation. It can never be considered healthy in society when there is one guidelines for the common people and for those who are involved in financial dealings and such. Therefore, the situation is, of course, unbearable for us to have in the government two Ministers, including the secretary of finance, the highest government of the country's taxes, seated as if nothing has been due to the serious confidentiality that has come up in connection with these matters. I agree with that. A senator that the secretary of finance should see his own dignity in his resigning, and of course the government should be removed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u31	President. Because of the highest. The Secretary of Economics is not here--and I strongly request that he be called up for this discussion--then you just have to quote him what he has said about this proposal and about the situation. In fact, it is possible to wonder whether he is not using his expression here at the General Assembly, the person who is making an amnesty. Just think how serious it is to talk so lightly about dematerialities, talk lightly about tax snow, even that Iceland is a tax bill, since that's what it is, the Iceland's tax secretary, who is telling us, the nation, the world, that it's legitimate in the sense that it's at least a moral thing, that it's all right and actually exemplary. [[The president calls.]] That's very serious in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to say that I support this conquistador of integrity. I want to ask you why. A member of the council whether it is not considered that an official investigation of the origin of the continent is also necessary and whether we do not need to know how they came into existence and where money came to establish them. We know that the Icelandic banking system borrowed more than 5,000 billion for the collapse of the bond markets, and we know that these loans were continued to be used for the maintenance of property. The report of the Allegorical Committee of Parliaments presents all of this very well and in Volume 9, in a financial review, e.g. To a Gervimaður útland, as it is called in the documents, that person, a fake person from abroad, was the second - largest user of Icelandic businesses in 2008. Of course, there was no small thing there, 2,239 million. K. The 2008 market for partners owned by a commercial from abroad. The report contains very good information on pay, both for individuals who have the title "False Foreigner" and for partners who were founded abroad by the Icelanders. Therefore, I ask: Do we not have to add to the suggestion that a public investigation by the deportation of our societies is requested in order to account for the source of the money, and what harm was actually caused by it here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u33	President. I think this is a very interesting and important comment that goes by. Senator. An article by Indriði H. Þorláksson, by permission of a president, says, and I want to make his statement to my own on these matters. In particular, Icelandic companies in the years leading up to collapse had a huge amount of money and money money. What happened to this profit and sale? He was not found in bankrupt financial institutions and property institutions. This part of history is missing, and the explanation that he could provide for the events that occurred here in the collapse and actually thereafter. Here, Indriði Þorláksson points out the same factor as that. paritaprevir "Oddný New Harðardóttir Hardydotir, " "is something that needs special consideration, "and I suggest it. The management board took a special look at this. I hope to such an extent that for the sake of material discussion, we are not here, Mr. President, to discuss this just to run the committee so that people can begin taking it back to the highest level. A government calls important things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u34	Mr. President. While some people claim that deportations are necessary in some cases in order to maintain business, that is entirely false. They are always founded on secrecy and to avoid tax returns. The revelations of the Panama State have caused anger not only here in Iceland but all over the world because humans become naturally angry with the injustice when rich people using the tax industry make the public pay their share in the community. But the worldwide international organization, including those of taxes, is about to rise up and want to forbid taxes. it is the international team of officers and the member of the European Parliament. I want to ask you why. A senator whether it is important for the Icelanders to consult such organizations and assist them to eliminate all of this. [[The president calls.]] Maybe we can't do this all by ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u35	President. I would agree, of course, that there is a need for all available measures to stop this operation. If that's the way it went. A senator mentions when one of them supports that route. On the other hand, I feel that the situation we are in this Friday afternoon sheds a very clear light on the fact that we must choose now. We have to vote now. We're here talking about the unprecedented state of Iceland. We're talking about the biggest political scandal in the last few decades. We're talking about such a serious thing. Here we're discussing research and putting your arms around it so that there's some sophistication in it, which is when the benches are empty. It will be, a respectable President, whether we're going to ban tax cover with other countries, whether we're going to step forward more closely in the field of North America, OECD, or where, we have to get rid of this government or we're not going to get out of line. That's the reality we're looking at, President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u36	A respectable president. Here, speakers have called attention to the fact that on the rosary, one of the members of the board has arrived. paritaprevir Elín Hirst, a tenth speaker from now on. Here are the classes empty, there is no minister in the house, and here is one of the members of the board of directors in the hall. Are the issues of taxes and what has been going on in our society over the past few weeks now some of the government's private issues? The government groups here and there are showing over and over again in discussions about this matter and now with their indifference in their discussions that they have no interest in making any changes in this situation. They think it's all right. This is how they only want it, two nations in the country, one that can do what they want and the other people who can support it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u37	Mr. President. I agree with every word. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir took along earlier. I think we need to take a picture of the rich chairs and put out a big story with a headline: the scandals that the Panama Documents revealed are the issues of government opposition. Here comes one candidate in the hall, another sits in the hall, no minister. [[For example: No one has a Vocabulary file.]] None of them are on the rosary. This is a scandal, Mr. President, and I hope that the media of the country notices this situation and ask: Why is it not a paradox struggle to investigate the consequences of an Icelandic society and eliminate such ills? Why is that not a parapolitic case? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u38	President. I wish that there will be a recession at a meeting, and not to be held by him until the minister of finance is in the hall, as well as the prime minister. It is totally below all caves, and not in accordance with the cause that the government groups do not participate. It is contemptuous to the Council, it is contemptuous for this proposal presented for a very rich reason. Is there anyone who intends to say something other than that this is an important motive? President. There's no way we can keep up this discussion any other than that these two men come in here and as district overseer and the first mission official, I'm going to stress that they're going to be called here and that the discussion is off.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u39	Mr. President. There's no other way to agree with what's been presented here, it's obvious that this is not the issue of government, this must be the case for all of us and not just for our members. This is a vital issue, such as the World Council Report of the II Parliamentis. We'll see what the researchers have done after that, i.e. what they have added. It is obvious that this is something the nation needs, that they should see and know the origin of taxes and business assets in the tax countries. The fact that ministers implicated in the Panamas don't think that there's any reason to sit here and participate in the discussion is really quite remarkable. Like what? Of course, the traveling overseer mentioned the highest attitude. Our fictitious Minister, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. He views this proposal as totally unnecessary, which may indicate why he is not here today to participate in this discussion. But she's not unnecessary, she's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u40	President. I like it, like a what? A senator before me might remind me that there seems to be no intention of participating in the discussion, with one honest exception. paritaprevir Elín Hirst. It's a matter that affects all of us, not just those in a position of government, it's about everyone. Hence, if they do not want to participate in the discussion, they are to participate in the discussion, and ministers are to sit here and at least listen to it. It's completely annoying. I want to agree with what. The executive of the bill that there will be a recession during the discussion until the government officials have shown themselves here in the house and listen to the discussion and are most involved in the discussion presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u41	Mr. President. Here is the growth of one of the greatest ills today, which involves the fact that a small percentage of the Icelandic nation's population has been advised to transport huge amounts of money into a foreign tax field, apparently, at least in the case of some people, to avoid sharing in the payment of their way through the Icelandic welfare community. That in itself is a monster. But it's also a bug when you look over the hall and see that there's no one here who's part of the other board.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u42	What?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u43	Well, at least not at all. paritaprevir I'm waiting for Frosti Sigurjónsson to come here and tell us what he's doing. The next thing you do is tell them whether they agree with the highest standards. Secretary of the budget that it's all right with this kind of business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u44	Mr. President. I didn't mean to come up here and talk to a meeting board, but I have to say that when I looked at the speaker file and realized that I was wrong, I was very surprised. Councilmen and the highest. The government officials would have no greater interest, but they testify to this huge case, which has been reassigned to the community and has led to the resigning of ministers. They've decided to speed up elections. I would've thought what. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers would be particularly interested in discussing their vision in these matters, how they can see that we can handle these matters at the council, whether this is the right way, or whether there are any better ways to handle them. So I have to agree with the people here who have spoken and expressed my amazement in discussing such a big matter that we do not hear more from the board of directors. I hope we will hear from them, for this is a matter that we should be able to exchange opinions and consider exactly how we will handle it, in a language that is not only serious to the economy, serious to the financial system, but also extremely serious to the public's trust in politics in the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u45	A respectable president. As I said earlier at the council, I have been listening for the specific attention of the parish and the Independence Party, and in fact, the bad. The president of Iceland, too, of the constant uncertainty period. It's a well-known trick. So does Donald Trump. The only uncertainty I have now is how the governments and the government are going to handle this national issue. I sit here in the gym because I really wanted to hear at the top. Secretary of finance and council members, what they have to say about the matter. Is that all right? What are we going to do? This is a very good suggestion, and we don't even have a job putting ourselves on a rosary. Once again, the government has to talk to itself here. That's not acceptable. I'll take that requirement to the highest. A minister of finance would come and explain to the United States what he intends to do in this matter. We're not discussing a small thing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u46	A respectable president. In general, I don't believe that ministers always need to be there for the discussion. But here we are, of all countries and the situation where the council is now at the highest level. Secretary of finance, in view of the fact that the issue is of the highest importance. Secretary of finance. I'm sorry I don't have the highest. The secretary of finance here is here to give a heads-up. Those who travel this fine suggestion of what's wrong with her, what's wrong with her. Why should the General not vote with this proposal? It takes the highest. Of course, the secretary of finance should be here, and he must participate in the discussions, at least by the government, I would have thought. I am now a third man on the rosary, and I offer it a seat for the members of the board of directors who would like to speak in my place, and then I shall go to the end of the rosary myself if it helps to assist with the discussion here. However, the discussion must take place and must take place now. Then I'd like to call attention to the fact that this is a milder suggestion of two that we will discuss here today. If they are not going to discuss it, when will they discuss it? In the President's conference board?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u47	A respectable president. The fact that representatives of the government hold back from attending the Assembly Hall and being present for the discussion when two formal matters are presented involving one of the major social ills that fester in the community today show us a stand that is so irresponsible. There is no need for them to witness in the six members of the Parliament, which were created in the last election, that they do not need to point to the authority they have. They can sit down because they have more than six members of the Parliament. But they cannot attend the discussion. They cannot take the debate, stand up for their cause, and do their business, and participate in the democracy that will remain under their dominion. This is a terrible situation, a respectable president. But I agree with other members of Congress. [[The president calls.]] I demand that the meeting be postponed until financial ministers at least have their own dignity in sitting here for discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u48	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker, it is not acceptable to the highest. The secretary of finance cannot see how to attend the discussion. He must have a good reason not to be here, maybe he's the best. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I think it's a serious matter that it can't be handled lightly. I demand general council members to be present for this discussion, to participate in it, and to communicate on the issues below, to investigate the establishment of Icelanders and companies to the tax industry and its impact on Icelandic society. There is no way to resolve this situation. It's often that way when we take the stand up to the President's conference board and discuss serious matters, it's all settled. This is a serious matter that all members of Congress are expected to have a proper share in the fact that it has much to do with the Icelandic community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u49	Mr. President. Sometimes it is said that silence can be said a lot. Perhaps there is also much to say with the absence. The silence in this case is screaming and the distance in this case is screaming. The directors of the board of administrations, who have good reason to come and explain the situation of these cases to the General, as closely related as the two parties are of this operation, and became aware in recent days, choose to be absent. And not only that, but that's what the council find all right. Now it is so that in both cases the heads of the categories themselves are linked to this, if not exactly the heads themselves, as in the case of financial and economic ministers. Prime Minister, prosecuting ministers of two classes, ministers of both categories, special members of both categories. [[The president calls.]] There's been reports from the office of both administrations. The Council of Independence has gone to Reykjavík, the head of the Agency has gone, Prime Minister has left. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Yet, it is such a small matter to the officials of the administrations that they choose to send them, who will definitely notice, the message that they do not need to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u50	A respectable president. That the head of the Independence Party and the minister of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, is not present at this discussion must surprise everyone here. This issue has to do with the tax issues that have been burned up by the government. The director of one of the administrations accepted at least part responsibility in the matter and withdrew as prime minister, but financial ministers are bound to be opposed here. It is not a Gervimann person in a foreign country named in many of the companions hidden in these islands of the country. It is absolutely essential that the head of the Independence Party be present for the discussion, especially when members of the council have made an agreement on the council this week, when certain matters would be considered here. Then, of course, it was on the grounds that everyone would be present for that discussion but not that the government would be allowed to handle the matters that are convenient for her and then could just leave the position of government into the weekend with the largest community case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u51	A respectable president. I'm gonna make some comments to the President's conference board. I think it's pretty special when people are starting to abuse this team completely ruthlessly, as they do here today. It's been set up in Iceland record at this assembly by reason of it. The government's position to delay the course, but it's quite special when people are stalling their own case. Those indignities that go to bed. The senators aren't paying attention, they just don't have any opinion. Hv. paritaprevir Hrafn's Helgi is well aware of this, for he was next to us seven members of the council who were following the discussion. I don't understand how humans can expect to be dealt with. A major body of men who walk in this way will be serious. It's just that you're probably ashamed of the government and the board of administration as much as they want, but now this case is on a program that's yours, you're asking for it, and then men come and try to slow down the Senate. [[The president calls.]] And a respectable president doesn't do anything. [[The president calls.]] I make serious comments to the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u52	The president makes a comment on this and reminds us that the speakers should make a full name for the members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u53	A respectable president. Perhaps the requirement is not completely clear to the point. Senator. The requirement is that, for example, there be discussions with those involved in the case. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is directly involved. This is the problem we have here. This involves the inadequacy that people speak about, that is, the problem. I know it's the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics is busy. I have every respect for that. But it's also absurd to be the highest. There's no Minister here when we discuss this. As for the members of the greater part, I am well aware that people can follow up the discussion anywhere. But the discussion must take place here. There is one member of the greater part of the rosary and that has been commended. There could be more. I've already offered my seat. That still stands. However, this need to be discussed. It's not just a matter of time. The members of the major part are hearing the armadam on the side of the board, we want to talk here. I'm sure it is. They complain about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u54	Mr. President. It's shameful and unscrupulous of why. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - given Þór of Þórðarson's son was to appear here and three times in his speech to the highest degree. Prime Minister here only under Congress gave authority to the people to speak their case... President, granted authority to the public to speak their case and ask for the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and secretary of finance are here for this discussion. [[Taken up on "Air Force One."]] Lord faithful, it is not in the realm of the highest power. A president listening to such discussions and giving the word? Then we're gonna have a snooze. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson, who does not have the courage to present his perfunctory opinions on this matter, who is afraid to put himself on the rosary, complains of the highest degree. The president allows other members of Congress to express themselves on what the body of Congress allows them to do. I suggest what. paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þórðarson no later than at the end of the talk list, and he takes it up the phone and wants his own leader to come here to let us talk to him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u55	V.E.G. President. I would like to agree with those who have mentioned and demanded, or went to the top. Ministers present and participate in the discussion. Of course, that tells a lot about Iceland's position, of the Generals' position, about the position of the greater part at the Council, that of members of Congress and the Supreme Assembly. Ministers of the 50-50 split up and be absent in this discussion. Of course, that tells us a lot about the position Iceland is in when it comes to dealing with the information we've been given with the existence of the Panamas. I ask: Is these the people we trust to study the matter? The people who don't even have a discussion at the Senate Hall on the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u56	A respectable president. The second day in a row comes the second. paritaprevir Gulsome Þór Þórðarson, who participates in discussions about the President's conference board and is ashamed to make comments on the inconsistencies of national affairs and island policy-making throughout the United States. [[Up front.]] These are huge cases under here. What are we asking for? We're asking for a discussion at the Allied Parliament on the tax business. What is the answer, and how do the parties respond? Being exasperated about those who join us and wish to see us. It is the contribution of the governments to this discussion. A respectable president. Ever since this issue came up, there has never been a discussion of the initiative taken by members of the board at the council. Never. During all the weeks that this matter has been discussed. What history does this tell us about the attitude of these groups toward the matter? Could it be that the absence of the candidates of the Future Party here is explained by their being at home reading News Time and wondering how to scratch out what is presented in it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u57	President. It is obvious and perhaps understandable that members of the Independence Party did not rely on the subject. Understandably, they may be ashamed. It may be understandable that they feel that the main and most important contribution of the day's discussion is that the government is not acting properly, that it is bored, and that they are using the past to manage the President's conference board somehow. People don't like it. Wants to play. paritaprevir Gullish Þórðarson, isn't he just talking about taxes and deportations? Does he want to discuss the fact that the head of the Party and the secretary of the tax is himself in the Panamas? Wants to play. A senator discuss this? No. He wants to make comments to the President's conference board that the government side is abusing the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u58	I'm not kidding. I'm trying to keep my own
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u59	A respectable president. I return comments to the President's conference board and draw attention to the reason. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who's been here for 25 years, still doesn't know the difference between a respectable president and the highest. Prime Minister. Let it be between parts. [[Up front.]] When he came in, they were... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Can I get some noises for the United States Vice President? The conference board team was not used this way. That knows why. Senator. Now it's no time to take up this discussion, such as many others, no problem. Let's do it. But I would suggest we don't abuse this team like this. This is a very important feature, and if we want to make comments to the President's conference board, we should be allowed to do so. But now this matter is on the agenda, and there is nothing to be done about it. For God's sake, show them your opinion on the cards, but don't start abusing this team until all day long. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u60	The president noted that he had listened to the wishes of members of the council who have shown the presence of two of the highest authorities. Minister and has given them a message.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u61	A respectable president. I enrolled in the rosary in the belief that these important matters should be discussed, i.e. tax taxes and how we can prevent people from avoiding carrying the burdens of our community covenant with which to pay taxes. That's why I'm very sorry that we're on the position one more trip arguing about President's conference board from this chair. I think it's all too important and a big deal for us to go over these tests in connection with the case. I wish we could continue our discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u62	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker on the matter, is very important. That is why we make a comment at the President's conference board, for when this case was set up for the day's session, we assumed that we would have a conversation with the administrative body and possibly a minister, who is not abnormal in view of the magnitude of the issue. In fact, it's part of responding to the situation in the community after this Panama leak, which has caused the head of the Offense to have to resign a judiciary. But not the highest. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Secretary of the economy sees the reason to be here and discuss these matters, to tell us how they're going to react, what they're going to do, or whether they think they have a reason for it. It is very important to have such a conversation. That's what we make a comment to, more dignified president, that they're not in the conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u63	Mr. President. I believe the subject under which we are subject is one of the most important subjects that the Council has to discuss before we enter the election. I don't think there's any Senate case at all. At least as important as this matter has been to the government. I agree with what. paritaprevir Elín Hirst, of course, should try to handle this matter objectively. Of course, it is vital that we be able to communicate objectively with those taking the lead in the situation. That's why. A senator who is desirable to the highest. The minister of finance and head of the Independence Party are involved in this discussion because he has in recent days, last yesterday, established opinions that surprise you. He has, among other things, spoken to me, or I have at least understood it, that what he allows himself to call a tax competition, which is the world's spendingrs offering less taxes than where he lives, is good. So I disagree completely. In this discussion, I feel that it is important to take the highest stand. Governments are in place. I also feel that it is important to have it past the highest level. Minister, because he's the one with the knowledge, what experience has become of the information exchange agreements and CFC laws adopted in the past government. V.E.G. The minister of finance has spoken as if there were enough tools to enable us to obtain all the information we need. I want to talk to the highest. Secretary of finance because there are key factors in the discussion. I imagine that they could make a big difference in the way things get going. That is why it is important that at least key members of the government who have information on the experience in this regard come up for the discussion. In view of the way the situation has stirred up tremendous turmoil in society and pondered new truths that were strange, at least for me, I simply didn't know that the matter was so growing, I think it's important that it be discussed by everyone at the council, i.e. ... thatallclasseswillcometo these things. I find it especially important that those in the category that may be next to the issue, the forward party and the Independence Party, give up their position. For example, in this discussion, I believe that I am required that the president of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónnsson, pass this pass on his position. I believe I have an application in a key language that puts me in the position of the Independence Party. I have made it perfectly clear that I believe that the case here is a smell of action necessary for us to accept for overcrowding and coverage in this council in order to at least draw up some sort of community reference to how we want to live together in this country. What was it that the Panamas uncovered and revealed? At least in my case, they showed me, first of all, that there are two nations that travel on different missions. It is a small percentage of the nation, the more wealthy, those with the most money under the hands that seems possible to move in time in first space without paying the same thing as the rest of us on the general cabin. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] In other words, the information of the Panama Documents emphasizes that there are two countries with differing terms. On the one hand, it is the small group who have money and who can place them in taxes, apparently part of this group, in order to cheat taxes, one in order to pay less taxes, and perhaps third parts that do not want to have their ownership on this. However, we are the ones who have to live in this country, the common people of the forest who have to live with the unreachable currency in foreign lands, at the same time that others can waltz through our resources, as in some cases, and do what they want. Second, I have to say that this also reveals another image that I did not realize had been there for me. What Panama documents show is that during the foam years before failure it was actually created an assembly where money was moved out of the foam economy, changed from paper money in Iceland, the bank went through to the bank's branch in foreign countries, and then, after various ways in the tax industry, where it was hidden, in some cases, it is not possible to confirm that taxes and obligations have been given in accordance with Icelandic law. This may be the scariest thing in this whole matter. It turns out that most of the banks have grown rich in their ability to use the resource, have gone through the community service, and have funded it in foreign countries, some have hidden it, just in some cases, so as not to have to participate in paying their share in the welfare of the community. It's on which I can apply the words of one of the wise men of the Independence Party who, in his advanced age, said that this community was disgusting. This is disgusting. I'll remember living in a society where this sort of thing goes on. That's what we need to talk about here. As a legislator meeting, we need to try together in some way to prevent this from being done because it is non - Biblical, at least in some cases immoral and illegal. I think all the people sitting here in this room must agree with me on that. The first step to explore the scope of this matter must be to map it. That is why I stressed it in my contribution in the discussion of a new prime minister's direction to map the problem. Suggested what? This is precisely true of the members of the left movement of the movement ▪ The green supply. That's why I support her whole mind. I'm going to see this council stand up, and I'm going to finish a lot of things without having this case heard at the council and getting paid for the council. In addition to this, I believe that to prevent these means of avoiding paying taxes and the duties of the Allied Council must also consider forbiding the Icelanders to have accounts in the tax-paradise and national Islands, where it is not clear that governments abide by the laws and regulations established by OECD. If not, we will continue to live with the possibility that such accounts may be owned by the Icelanders, giving up what they want, without us or the Icelandic tax authorities, may in some way prove it. I agree with you, too. paritaprevir The daughter of Oddný G. Harðardóttir said earlier that she thought it would also be necessary to investigate the claim. Let's get on with it. How did this come about? How did the situation come to be that there are ten times as many owners of national accounts as there are in many countries we compare with? What was the purpose? Who were those banks? Why did they attack? I also think the changes made here last year have to be considered a matter of reviewing them. I was opposed to the decomposition of a so - called Tortetta tax. There were men in this hall who claimed that it was of no importance because it was so small that it was lost. Now it is found that in these tax paradisees in Tortula, there are accounts in which people store fat - bearing documents. And we were here at this council last year, dropping taxes on it. I was the one who called it the Tortula tax, but the government's answer was that it had nothing to do with it, the magnitude was so small. We need to get into it, too. That's the end of the line, Mr. President. It was then agreed to study the privateisation of the banks. Although this is not entirely related, it is clear that there were private banks that were preconceived on national accounts. So now, at the World of Congress, I challenge military cuttings for a study of the privateization of banks because many unclean things are going to come out of the bag corner. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very interesting speech on these interesting matters, I would like to agree with those of the people listed here that this is a very important subject. I agree, and I've been in this conversation from the beginning, but I'm sorry to leave at two o'clock, so I couldn't put myself on the rosary, but I'm going to take part in the answers and hope I have a word to talk to. A senator. First, I want to make it clear that my attitude toward taxes is completely clear. I'm opposed to their operation and I believe it is necessary that Iceland will be no less than at the point of combating its activities. A few steps are very important. The first step is to recognize the extent of the problem we face. That's what this proposal is for the council arrangement that I find in all respects very interesting and much in it that I believe we can support. I know that during the council process it will only improve and hope that it will succeed. That's how I feel about it. I think it's very important that we recognize the overall picture. We've only seen a portion of it already in this leak of data. In the Economic and Business Committee, we have taken the initiative to take to our guests to learn what the government has been doing, what the law is and whether it is an opportunity to improve the law. I'll make it a suggestion that the Economic and Business Committee will submit a report on the legal proceedings received by the Committee on Corrections, so that the Council will receive this and be able to discuss it in particular here. I wanted to ask you why. A senator in his speech. I understand him as supporting this matter in his entire mind, like others in this room. I agree with him that this has to be a complete reform. We cannot be satisfied that our welfare community is being undermined by some taking their possessions and not paying from them taxes or from their income. [[The president calls.]] But I come to my second question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u65	Mr. President. After this excellent answer. I must say that I cry at the moment. A senator will have to disappear from meetings and challenge him to try to change his program so that he can continue to give us the information that he evidently has. On the other hand, I agree with all that as a dog. A senator said and thanked Frosti, Sigurjónsson, why. Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee for the positive attitude he expresses. There are exact answers like these that can lead us together to some sort of conclusion that ends with us, so I refer to a word each time. A senator, prevents part of the community from taking away its money and avoiding paying taxes and obligations to the welfare of society. Those were the last words of why. Senator. I completely agree with him that's the point. I think it's a good thing to do. A senator, even if only in opposition, come and address the matter in this way so thoroughly. His case could not be understood as different from that he believed that one of the ways that now needed to be traced back to the problem could be mapped and that it would likely use the tools and tools that the potential committee, possibly the research committee, may be established on the basis of this proposal - and that other banks would also be looked at. How important that is! This is just one company that one bank uses, maybe use more. There were other banks. We need to control all the problems. We need to eliminate this, because this is the worst symbol of the inequities created in Icelandic society. I know that one of the people who follow in the fótspor of Jónas frá Tornado, who always wanted to join with the town workers, does not want such a community as I do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u66	A respectable president. I think we all agree on this, me and the other. Senator. What you've noticed is how hard it is to get the information on this except through leaks such as the one who's been here and how difficult it is to get ahold of it. In countries in the EEA and the European Economic Areas, there are tax conditions. I find it quite hypocritical in the way both Americans and the European economy deal with this. The tax competition will be very soon. All of our ships may be used to register their ships somewhere where they do not have to pay decent pay or pay off the crew's salary, those who work on board the ships. We have an energy company that has insurance companies in the Bahamas to somehow take advantage of the service that's in the tax industry, all legal, say men. We wondered about a bill that experts who come abroad from a city that is less tax than experts who are educated and living in Iceland. We're part of Brussels thousands who pay no taxes because they're ambassadors. - Brussels is just one big taxjoke. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I'm against this. I don't like the thought of it all. I think we're all supposed to participate in paying taxes to society. It was recently replaced with the tax - free Presidency. I liked it. I think we're all supposed to pay taxes on our salary, pay taxes on our capital income. They can then be lower when we all participate. We can do more. It's believed that the taxes are 80 billion, but I don't think that that's what we're talking about in double - haired people is even higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u67	Mr. President. I just agree with what. Some of the reactions of the presidents of the United States and Europe have been characterised by a candidate of twins and hypocrisy. We don't have to talk about Brussels. We know naturally how the European chairman of the European Union, while serving as prime minister in Luxembourg, took special initiative in making the largest tax effort at least at that time in Europe. But it does not change that we, as politicians, must always try to stop anyone from being able to build up the welfare that we, in spite of all things agree that we are going to do. That's the point. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson can be passed on to me by means of a bill and to fight the fact that the Icelandic diplomats are an exception to taxes. It's a point of view. In any case, we agree that we do not want the law to be in a way that makes it possible for humans to put themselves in a position where people say they did not cheat on taxes, but we, the government, have no way of verifying it. But that's the situation today. There is at least one thing we can deal with. Because it was a long claim, Mr. President, of the current government that laws against paying bills in the Offland Islands that did not meet the information requirements required by the government to verify the information, it was the EFTA monitoring agency as its own initiative, in the face of the discussion in Iceland, the declarations made by the Presidents of the United States, and said, "I'm sure this is possible. We'll have it in black and white. [[The president calls.]] The excuse that had been lied to in people for a long time is no longer there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. True, it is not quite right. A senator said that it started after the banks were privateised. Like what? A senator well - known at that time began and was advertised by large full - page advertisements when the Lands Bank was the bank and the person leading it was then the director of the Commission during the last term. John Kay, a professor at London School of Economics, received a very remarkable lecturer. He was, I thought, with very grammatical and good comments, he wants to fight this as I think everyone wants, but in a story about this says, by permission of the president: ▪ He says that it is important to be careful and separate from the companies established in these countries for honest purposes and for the purpose of betraying taxes or talking money. I feel like I'm listening to what I'm doing. Senator, he doesn't want to make this distinction. I just wanted to know clearly: A senator agreed with the professor that this distinction should be made? True, I believe that most people conclude that this is normal and that other things are most unfair. In any case, I must also ask about this fiery rage. A senator may have changed his mind about the European community. I don't quite see how we're supposed to close this country down like a dog. A senator talked about if we're going to be in the EEA, I'm not talking about the EU. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson speaks naturally of tax fraud or tax collection in the European Union, which is only European policy and policy. A senator himself noted that the chairman of the European Commission is the former prime minister of Luxembourg, and all of this now became a financial objector of the European Union. So I have two questions for why. A senator, whether or not he agrees with the útlegging of Johns Kays. A senator has changed his mind about our participation in the European community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u69	I don't quite understand the second question. Senator. It's about whether I've changed my mind about the participation in Iceland in the European Union. What is the question? There was nothing I said that gave her reason. I believe Iceland should be in the European Union. For example, I might imagine a representative of Iceland's Commission would be a shriveled man like Guðlaugur Þórðarson, who might take advantage of Iceland's campaign against tax collections. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator would be very well fallen for this. I believe that Iceland is now a tax - fraud system. They have been evaluated by the existing government between 80 and 100 billion. I don't know if there's more or less share than in the European Union, that's not important. The main issue is that, whether inside or outside the European Union, we join together to eliminate tax fraud. The government right now stands in the face, for there are laws that allow Icelanders to go out of Iceland with money, keep them in bills in tax-paradise places where the laws and rules of that country are so tax - stolen. That's what I call a law-grunt. It was claimed by government leaders as long as possible. A senator supports the inability to have bills there. Now it is very clear, the inspector himself, ESA, has stepped forward and said: That's why it's an excuse, an impossibility, a fall. Then there's nothing to stop it from happening. A senator can join me and forbid such accounts. In terms of Johns Kays's statement, I believe that tax reform is undesirable. I believe that companies and individuals should pay their taxes as far as possible in their own country, and no particular means should be used to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] As a executive executive of the European Commission, I have found many meetings where major European directors have just been working together to uproot what they have just received from the mouth. A senator's name is such a beautiful tax contest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u70	A respectable president. I'll just repeat the question. I don't know why she should have been confused. A senator understands things well. Then I'm going back to the professor's statement. The professor says in an interview with the Icelandic press, with the permission of a president: ▪ He says that it is important to be careful and separate between the enterprises established in these countries for honest purposes and to cheat on tax or money. All I want to know is what? A senator agrees with the approach of the professor in this regard. The professor comes here to speak of us as gathering with other nations in order to eliminate taxes, but he says it is important to make this distinction mentioned. I'm asking why. Again, whether he agrees with this approach by the professor or not. For the EU, coz. A member of this platform spoke of Luxembourg as a tax paradise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u71	I told you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u72	One foundation of the European Union cohesion or the European Union's internal market, which we are involved in with the EEA, is a free flow of capital. That means we can invest in companies in Luxembourg, for example. There may be bills to be banned, but why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson'sotte son can start a business without problems, and I don't talk about it after we've relieved our capitalists, which has been a struggle problem. Senator. This is unavoidable if we participate in the European Union, of course, even more if we are going to the European Union that is currently involved, some members of the European Union. And speaking of two nations in one country, there is a special nation in Brussels who works for the European Union that doesn't pay taxes. Also, 5% of the European Union's expenses are things that disappear and are not known where they are going. The accountants have pointed it out for 20 years. What I'm referring to, a respectable president, is either way. A senator believes that we can stay in the European Union together, both in the EEA and in the European Union, if we are to forbid this as well. A senator talks about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to ask you again, Mr. Honorable President, if he agrees with the professor's suggestion or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u73	I thought it was a great bait both in the EU society and in the EEA that the activities involved in putting money in tax-paradises cannot be managed as to tell whether or not men are using to steal from taxes. Now it's possible, and it's natural. So I believe that Iceland, if it goes to the European Union, should have a preemptive approach to implementing and implementing two if not the three European Parliament's conclusions that all taxes should be eradicated. That's the answer, so I brought it up, to the first question. For the second question about John Kay, it is simply this: I distinguish between those who are honest and dishonest. I make a difference between those who steal and those who don't steal. I make the distinction between those who cheat consciously against taxes and those who don't. It doesn't make any difference to me that I want to eliminate these tax paradises. Today, it is possible for humans to legally place money in tax-paradises, providing information to the Icelandic authorities indicating that they are paying natural taxes, but they are still in such a tax environment that the government cannot determine whether it is true. Such activities are completely in gray areas. I don't want to allow the accounts owned by the Icelanders in such areas because we are now authorized to forbid it. But just so you can do anything about it: I'm against the tax-paradise and that kind of fiscal competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u74	At a meeting yesterday, April 28th, the case was 665 public shopping, referred to the Economic and Business Committee. The case was to be addressed and corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u75	Mr. President. I want to, as more members of Congress have been doing here recently during the discussion, and in discussions about the President's conference board, I want to note that the directors of the administrations choose to be completely absent and the government class is empty as we discuss this large issue. With unique exceptions, more than a few members of the management team are here as well. I think it's a good thing to start with, when we discuss tax cover and tax collections through debino societies, to discuss the ideological connection. The reality is that this is the condition of the offspring of the Neo - free mind, a newborn, and his efforts to make the whole world without a border to its battlefield. This ideologies was controlled in Iceland for 18 years, in fact, it ran out of control. Sadly, the same categories of authority again exist. It was all part of it, and it's all part of the independence party and the forward party. They took control of the situation from 1995 to 2007 and did nothing - nothing to prevent such activity. On the contrary, they wanted to turn Iceland into such a tax bill. There were published reports, there were conferences, and there were bought records, put men on the job to turn Iceland into Tortula. However, they were totally negligent about what other countries in general were doing at the same time, trying to resist the direct removal of taxes on a large scale to such low taxes. It is a natural product of the greedismist and the ideologies on which it is based. The aim is to maximise the profits, the short - term profits, the making of large amounts, the blood-milking economy of the land, the skinting of valuable things, and putting them away, putting them away, and trying to escape the most from paying taxes. In other words, it is the highest level of immorality. It's the most disgusting form of greedism we'll ever see in this operation. Sadly, during the past few years, powerful interests and nations have maintained their protective hand over this. I've been watching and participating in discussions about this, e.g. at OECD, also through the Northern Council, a special staff of the Council of Northern Nations was visited in the 1990's, including the U.S.A. OECD and worked along with them and was studying these matters from a Scriptural standpoint. The OECD may be their concern, but the problem has always been before the last few years, that certain interests and countries have maintained protection over this activity. Britain, Luxembourg, Switzerland, the United States, was always pressured into international efforts to close taxes and to make it difficult for other countries. It is true that now there is a change in the fact that even the tax industry has become a special part of G7 countries, the world's largest economy. This is because 2008, 2009, the international financial crisis opened the world's eyes to the extent of damage to this activity and to the animals that it is to the countries. Then they started thinking. So there has been a change in the atmosphere to work on these issues quite recently, but, of course, it's too late. The scale of taxes may not be more terrifying, but in the case of developing countries, who have relatively weak control systems and gross corruption. It flows wealth from Africa, Central and South America into this much tax crisis from poor countries where the corrupt upper caste transports profits from the use of resources or from other countries. There are reports of how shocking these numbers are in the case of Africa. In a few years, Africa could become penalties and penalties if it was not used so constantly to the tax cover of a corrupt upper class, with Western aid, of course. They keep their protective hand on this. There's nothing civil about this. I am ashamed to have to listen to the chapters of the discussion here. I can't accept that Iceland has a financial minister who so lightly talks about this work that we're witnessing. Of course, it sucked. Our secretary of finance was to appear in the Panamas. But I'm beginning to agree that of the two evils, it's worse to listen to him now talking about the taxes in the way he does and trying to draw up the lines that it really is all right if people don't exactly steal taxes. Wait, thank you especially for that? Except, of course. Of course, we should assume that people pay taxes. It is not to commend others for doing so. But we have only their own words, actually, because one of the problems is that it cannot be confirmed unless it is very difficult to know whether it is given while humans have nothing other than the words of those whose communities have because they correctly reported their possessions in their material values. Of course, only after 2010. Sadly, the governments and their various spokesmen have actually protected the deportation of business affairs by giving talks that there is nothing more to it than that it all was legal and nothing else than paying taxes. So it's okay? No. Can we have a financial minister, who is thus recommending a way of getting the money out of the country? Because it's a capital escape. The Off-world areas are the home base for the capital escape from Western economics and developing countries, unfortunately. That in itself is harmful, even if it does not mean lost tax returns. I can't accept this presentation, and I think it's a small thing for the directors of the board not to be men to come here for our discussion. Then their shame may be long upstairs. The people will notice that neither the chairman of the forward party nor the vice president who conducts the office of prime minister nor the head of the Independence Party, the Supreme Court. Financial and economic ministers, come here and participate in the discussion. Doesn't their absence seem too much, Mr. President? Isn't the silence a little screaming? Isn't the distance a little screaming? They may not trust in this discussion and understandably so, if they are the ones that will be drawn from their comments during the past few days. They've even gone that far, the highest. The Ministers, the prime minister of the present and financial and economic minister, are trying to bring it into line with the last government that it has in some way a legal entity of national society. I've never heard anything like this before. What law was it, Mr. President, who specifically permitted debinos during the last term? Are they not saying for themselves that it was all legal in 2005? So did we have to legalize something? No, of course not. The reality is that we are the only government that handled these matters. We did so in many ways. We doubled taxes on capital pay. We hardened the legislation on private partnerships and prevented people from being able to exploit their money from private institutions as financial gain rather than from paying pay. And we introduced the CFC rules, which stands for the Controled Corporation and Iceland, should have made 15 years earlier, while the government of the same categories as the current government is neglected to do. We took these things, did what we could to minimize the damage to this and that doesn't mean that we've been writing these things, wanted this or legally in any way. It's the weakly putty you're in when you start trying to do that. Then it is happening that Jón Sigurðsson, former president of the Agency, warned the company: "We have to shovel the fool. We must face ourselves, and we should not try to blame someone else. But, of course, progress, as usual, tries to blame the former government somehow with such fiction, as if it were about to make us responsible for the 110 years of secrecy, which was surprising in the bill brought by their own Education Minister and they agreed. [[Up front.]] The conclusion is that each member of the board of directors has a real job to do. They are very involved in this with their ministers, their local government, their trustees in divisions, and, of course, they should apologize to the people, perhaps quite specifically to the forward party, because we know that the Independence Party is so opinionated. They are advocates of greedism, but that is at least what they mean and want. But the fact that progress is more involved than any other group is a failure. [[The president calls.]] What the pursuit is going to do, huh? paritaprevir The Hjálmar of Bogi son Hafliðason, are apologizing to the nation, offering not to volunteer at the next election, are resting for four years. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Up to '83.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u76	A respectable president. You never really want to come next time. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. It's gonna be a bit of a dull attitude for me. I'd like to start by thanking a council of the left-greens for making this proposal. I think it's very good, and I think it's very important that we do research. I think it's necessary to build trust again. I expect that when the proposal goes into a review process, many people will have opinions about it. That's why it's a good thing that we're gonna get her settled here so early after she showed up so that we can get reviews and discuss the motion in detail. I hope she'll be accepted at the council. It is disappointing that no more executives have decided to speak up, but apparently some have come back to the rosary. So that's a good thing. I'm going to experience this as a matter of business today. I would have thought that there would be a great demand for a speech chair and that people wanted to say what they think. What has come up on the surface now is a lesion. Some action must be taken. We've known about this for a long time. It's nothing new, but when the names and characters are behind the budget, it's going to be much brighter and more official, and I'm very happy that these documents have been stolen or leaked because tax collections, money scum, and other things that happen in these countries and some of their societies, though many of them are innocent, are extorcating the welfare of society. We also need to discuss in the large context why we are at the head of paying taxes. Another question is, Why should we regret it? Why should those with more ability to regret the money? This is a moral question that we might want to discuss more. The European Union intends to take various measures, including against banks and tax advisers who help their customers bring their money to the tax farm in foreign lands. Some idea is to put together a common black list of taxes. It is very important that this be done in a international bison because the problem is that and it will be interesting to observe where the EEA is coming in and what our response and attitude will be in this case. That's why it's the highest. The secretary of finance could be here and participate in the discussion. I also think this debate is a reason to talk about tax fraud in general because it's just a part of some charisma and tolerance that has existed in Iceland, that tax fraud or cover up property and take advantage of societies is really not that serious. Of course, that's not the way it is, and I have high hopes that the issues that have come up will lead to something good. That is why it is important for us at the great General Assembly to discuss this. This is the first time we have a proper opportunity to do so. I've been surprised what countries, even in the European Union, have been able to get away with the international community. Although things have been done in recent years, I feel that I am late in my ass, and it took real help. You think if it hadn't happened, these Panamas, we wouldn't have been leaked, maybe we wouldn't be talking about it. Still, the problem would be as urgent as it would still be. I also feel that the misunderstanding in the discussion, and it's the concern of the government minister to set it up so that if the tax and duty have been paid, there's nothing wrong with it. I don't completely agree with you, there's a reason why people start debinos. If you have money and have to do business abroad, it may be easier to do so in foreign banks than in Icelandic, but you may well go to Norway or Denmark. V.E.G. One former prime minister put it somehow so that what had come out of this would be revealed that his wife had paid all her taxes and duties. The same thing says the highest. Secretary of finance. It would be better if Iceland's government ministers didn't have everything figured out, so just have to say it makes you feel strange. It's not about that, because it's about to decide to have a partner in the tax pool of African society that you don't really have to inform about any more than you want, because it's now in Panama that there are all kinds of societies that people wouldn't have thought to tell about. Why not? If it's all so completely innocent, then why isn't it in the Senate interest logs, local government interest logs, and so forth? Why is this not the case if people really feel that this is perfectly normal? It's not good and it's kind of lame that we have some kind of world record in a number of Ministers that directly connect with the Panama papers. This said a lot about the shock that was here until the collapse of our moral standards, and many began to think that very unnatural business practices were completely normal. We need to take a big step back. That is why I feel that proposals like this will be approved at the General Assembly and that such tests will be considered. Just as a tax investigator gets the funds he needs to investigate these matters fully. I don't regret the money that goes on. I had expected to hear more addressed by the Directors of Economic and Business Transporters because these cases have been discussed and held open. I know that there has been an informed talk on these matters. I'm especially going to listen to what the committees have to say on the subject. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has certainly spoken up, actually no longer serves as a member of the committee, but he knows this very well. I think we'll be here till late one night, because then we have another suggestion later, motion from the United States, which is a smell of the same hurt. We have plenty to talk about here, and I look forward to listening to.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u77	A respectable president. Since a discussion about the President's conference board is always very limited, perhaps normal, I think I should mention a little about what we talked about earlier on the President's conference board, i.e. how the discussion might be conducted, that it is true that three members of the Independence Party have entered a high - quality rosary, including some of them. paritaprevir Gudleful Þórðarson, who is excellent. I would also like to keep him in the way of words and thus participate in the conversation that is a cause for joy. He mentioned in his talk about the President's conference board that the smaller part is even stalling my own business, and I would like to stress that it is not right. It just can't resist the interests of my share. We would like to get a vote on this as soon as possible, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the situation at the Council is already that. Congress is asking for the presence of financial and economic ministers in some way as if it could not be the case that it is a real, sincere request. Clearly, at least for some people, it seems that such complaints and requests are always to delay. I think it's a thought for all of us, and I think it's the mark of the guy who's in the General Assembly. In a discussion like this, I believe that there should be a clear explanation of how the Council works best. Of course, this works best, considering that the talks here also take place on the side of the executives, but as I say, I see the better time in that topic of discussion, considering that the members of the Independence Party have arrived on the rosary list, including the why. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson. I'm in that you can be determined and shocked, and even angry, but still measured at the same time, and certainly reasonable. When it comes to matters that do not treat other politicians, it is generally important to me, in general, to discuss matters with people as much as possible, to give them the benefit of the doubt. It's not only because I generally think it's better to communicate, but also because I think that perplexity and careful discussion should be enough to back up and reveal the right things in the case and position. I want to keep it up. I would like to give the counsellers of this government and other people all the possible opportunities and allow them to enjoy the doubt as much as possible. The problem is that the facts on the subject still make you calm and even if you give people all the possible options, there is a fundamental problem in the situation we are in right now. The situation is that when it comes to this matter, and the next, it has to do with the very best. Financial and economic ministers. It's essentially bad, no matter how much chance you give. Even if you let him have any doubt, that does not change how the public can expect this discussion to be done. This is bound to change the credibility of the politicians who share some aspect of the matter that we are discussing. Among them is the highest. Financial and economic ministers. This is extremely unfortunate, and this includes not necessarily some accusation but a point to what is required of us today as politicians. Prior to the 2008 collapse, we thought Icelanders were terribly smart and snooped about in financial matters and were often included, in my opinion, in public, a fearful and cheerfulness. That mask fell in 2008. After that, we are still building our reputation, and there certainly is a misunderstanding in the media that there has been a new constitution and all of it and a lot of it is wrong, in fact, a huge amount of it is not true. People who know how these things work, how the banking system works, and how it works in this business and business must know exactly what happened because they were predictable in many ways. It was irresponsibility that made it a failure and, at least, it is irresponsibility to a large extent because of the nation's young age when it comes to financial matters. In contrast with other experienced nations, we are not very fished at that level. Then comes the rainbow of human life, which includes corruption, here and elsewhere, as is expected worldwide. The point is that there have been times in Iceland when the economy has seemed to be in good shape, there's been a little unemployment, low inflation, state's pay, and everything is good, actually very good, and still something was wrong. It was basically something wrong behind the way all of this looked. This was clearly revealed, in the long run, in a clear way, I think, in the 2008 collapse. It is no longer enough for us at the High General or in the politics to use economic conditions as they are at each time to say that this is all right because we can achieve economic success on the wrong grounds, on grounds that can fall on ourselves during a trial, as it happened in 2008. Now that the public's claim to politicians is being made, I think it's primarily a matter of trust. It is vital that we show that we trust not only when we feel that we have not broken any law but also because we have to show it by our respect for the requirement. It's very difficult when it's the highest. Financial and economic ministers don't even show up here to discuss this matter. And I'd like to point out that I don't believe that ministers should always be there when the council is dealing with their lawsuits, because that is after all the council to make a decision. The problem is, this is about the highest. Secretary of the economy, direct and confidentiality of the community. That's what this motion is all about, and that's why I think it's important to me that he's here. The view is that taxes are normal enough to be stored, and each person may have his or her own opinions. I don't think it's normal, and in every way, it's unbecoming. I think it's very unfortunate when it's the highest. The minister of the tax talks as if it were natural, speaking as though they were concerned about how matters are only misunderstandings. The point is, as they do, there are possessions that are placed in the various shelters in order to hide them, not necessarily to escape taxes but for some reason. For what reason? People wonder. It's beginning to wonder if there are some clever connotations that humans are having. Why do people go to make companies at random here and there to manage possessions? There are probably a number of answers to this question, but the fact that the common people constantly have to consider it in the case of a secretary of the taxes means that the public cannot afford to trust us here as well as the public should be able to do. I'd like to stress that I'm going to allow the highest power. Ministers to enjoy all the doubt I can possibly have, but these are concerns that we should take seriously, not because it's our legal duty, but because it's the right thing to do in politics. It is simply the right thing to do. That is why I often get bored in what was legal and not legal. As for the CCs, I'd like to mention one thing I ran across looking for the last world's top executives. Governments that discussed that matter and entered the law, and this was done by the then highest authority. Minister of Katrín Júlíusdóttir, in case 629 at 141th Congress. So the last government ever set up, not this one. Earlier, the Independence Party had been ruling, in the government, and in response to a spell. A response to a query, in fact another independent, was seen at 1131 at the 135th Council that it was not a special need to implement CC rules in Icelandic tax rights, in view of the low level of company income taxation in the country at that time. I don't have much time to track this down, but what I'm trying to do is that it's important that we show credibility and the credibility can not only be tied up in the law, he also has to be tied up in the way we approach the legitimate and normal concerns common people about how things are done in a government club. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator, I believe, points out that it is important to build trust. The key point is that we do things the right way and do not turn out or have half - truths or things like that. I think it's a story if this council mishap goes out to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. I thought it was a lot bigger than that. Hv. A senator also referred to a senator who came to a government in a time when the Independence Party was involved. It was referred to as a failure to go elsewhere in Icelandic society because of the low tax rates. You may have been right. In my speech, I'll consider it better. Hv. A senator speaks of this as being done primarily to hide, i.e. I'm going to have to live in a demilitarized society. You may be right. I'm better at reviewing these matters in my later speech. But I don't think we want to see the economy where men do it, hide things. So I want to ask you why. A senator because Piratar is in the greater part of Reykjavík. Under the lead of Pirata and the greater part now, PGE began to establish a domestic society. I think it's important that men talk them straight about why they did it if they're just doing it to hide it. Hv. A senator knows these matters well. I don't need to recall that story. That's been a lot of talk. I'd like to ask: Was it so that Piratars, together with the left green and the United States, would be involved in hiding property or anything like that by forming an energy company in an African society?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u79	A respectable president. I'm not in the mayor. I can't answer a question. Because he does what is common, a person is given a study of matters that are not a matter of concern. I can't answer why. A senator on that matter. But it doesn't change my opinion when it comes to a case that is being discussed, such as in the case of dematerials and the investigation of the people I support, that it is not up to the relevant person who has the seminary, which is largely the case. Financial and economic ministers, and his case is directly part of the reason that this matter is scheduled for the first time. With regard to that matter. In connection with Reykjavíkurburg, I would like to have a look at that, too. But if I was responsible for that matter and was its minister, I would come to the area to discuss it and to discuss the issues that might concern the matter. But as I say, I want to give men as much chance as possible. I want people to enjoy the doubt. That's why I'm really good at being a senator who generally wants to make conscious decisions, to know what I'm talking about before I start to talk about it, and certainly before I make a decision about it, to hear a reason. Secretary of finance here. To hear him answer the motion's messengers. To get him here to give a talk that could be answered and to get his view of this proposal, why it's good or bad after what happened. Supports the highest. Minister of the proposal? We don't even know. It's important for the discussion. I'm sure there are two, three talks, or more of those on the side of the U.S. Assembly, in case of the Supreme Court. The Secretary of Economics and Economics would come and say they're supporting the proposal. We could probably finish this today if something was, well, early next week, if that were the case. That's what I make a remark to, not to have the discussion, that needs to happen, here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u80	A respectable president. I've thought it was an option at any moment. A senator says he's completely stepped in on matters. That's why I'm surprised to hear it. A senator has not entered the issues involved in what Pirantar governs, i.e. WRITER IN Reykjavík. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers have indeed participated in discussions about these matters in public and elsewhere, and they have received a number of questions in the council, and nothing has been missing that he has answered for these matters. Nothing. There's a man here I miss and I'm dead, our friend. paritaprevir Blöndal Bömell. He never tired of saying, and I think there was a lot in it, that we at the council should take our place seriously, and we shouldn't always need the highest. Minister, with all due respect for the good people who serve that office, to discuss matters, is our decision to make. Even though it's the highest. Ministers are the least of them. Since then, members of Congress are the members of the council who are to make a decision, write the laws, and give the line. This is followed by the procedure. That's the idea, and we want to have, at least by word, and hopefully also, separate from each other. So I don't like it if people aren't ready, because I think we need to discuss these matters seriously and on the depth and get this thing on the agenda to discuss it, and if it's all about who's being present, it's really bad. I have shared in the discussion, such as why. A senator knows. Hv. A senator knows that it has indeed been watched by members of the council. I felt that the past was being abused earlier, the President's conference board, to delay the discussion. ... inconsistencies. However, we cannot change our approach to this if we were to discuss the matter in a material way. If you say that demilitarized societies are of the evil, it is a little special that they are supporting the formation of an amendee at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u81	A respectable president. Now it's telling me what else it is. A member of the Parliament that this holding has been placed in the annual accounts of PGE and is therefore official data and therefore cannot be hidden. But saying that I don't know the truth about it well enough to say anything more about it, so I'm not going to say anything about it. Hv. A senator may be shocked as he wishes to have a subject in this community and in the city of Reykjavík, especially where I don't know anything about it. That's the way it is, and that's how it stays. Part of putting yourself in the game is to respect the difference between what you know and what you don't know. I'm not ashamed to know something about some matter going on in the city -- and to appreciate it if that's not what it is. A senator meant. [[Up front.]] Talk about what? paritaprevir Blöndalur H. Farm, the bad man who is no longer with us, I recall a talk he gave where he said - and now I sincerely hope that I do exactly what he said - that he would see at that point at least two reasons for having societies in the affected areas. It would be to hide property and, on the other hand, to give in to taxes. There may now be other reasons why such communities exist in these lands. There may be legitimate reasons. The problem here is that the common people have to wonder what the purpose of it is. If it is possible to answer in any legitimate way that is understandable to the public, that is well. This is part of taking all this discussion. But to the highest. The secretary of the tax business does not participate in the discussion with which he himself is concerned changes how much the public can afford to take the discussion advisably. That's the problem. Believing is not just a matter of following the law. It is often said of righteousness that justice is not enough. It needs to be seen to be carried out. It's the same thing. It is not enough that there are legitimate reasons for this. The legitimate reasons need to be identified. It's not clear, so it's important that all of this come to the surface and that men make their arguments, which I hope to the highest. Minister's gonna do it sooner or later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u82	A respectable president. We are here to discuss a matter that must be discussed and considered. And I think it's also necessary that we do what we can to inform people about what's going on here. It is important that we not question anything. Rather, we try to reason with the facts. It was here, for example. told me earlier that this matter had come up primarily, i.e. This service, after the banks were privateised. That's wrong. On page 18. 14 DV today are shown full - page ads from the Bank of State Bank of the United States since 2000, where national services were being offered. With President's permission, I'm going to read from the advertisement: The Fortuna Fund is held at Guernsey, a global financial center on the English Channel. There, money grows in good shelter and produces fruitage, as is the case with the world's best interests. Then, during the last term, the manager of the F.I.E. was appointed director. It was all something that was known. I don't quite see how we're going to work on this without doing it in cooperation with other nations. I asked one question. The Conspiracy's member on it, because he spoke very against it, spoke of commands and bans, etc., whether the Conspiracy had any revised of its view of our participation in the European Economic Area and the European Union, because I find it very difficult to see, while they are not participating fully involved, how we can do it alone. Except for leaving the EEA, at least not walking in the EU. Secular fraud is always serious, and it doesn't matter how it is carried out. It is important that we always work against them. But here in the discussion, including of what? A conquistador of the United Nations has been referred to as a tax paradise for Luxembourg. Men have even mentioned. Cyprus and Malta Then there are the natural islands I referred to all over Europe. That is not to say Panama, which is, of course, not the last island when I knew, and Tortu, and the names of all those islands. I think we should take note of only what a guest of the United States, John Kay, has said, one of the most famous Western economists, presented in the media, and a professor at London School of Economics. We should look into his carpenter when we discuss these matters if we are going to have real success. True, he makes it very clear that it is important to make a distinction between developing communities for honest purposes and those who are either cheating on taxes or making money money. I must admit that I think it sounds reasonable to distinguish it. He also says, which I think is a core point, that we've developed a very complex financial system that will contribute to this. He's talking about in the financial system. I've been talking about it for a long time, and I'll keep on doing it. He is not the only economist or the headman in this area who speaks in that way. This discussion has, for example. Be very prominent in the United States. They're trying to work at getting there, even though they don't. The responsibility for the financial system of taxpayers. This discussion has not been a prominent subject here. Sadly, however, the situation has often been intense. I thought why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson just fell into talking like this was just a financial collapse in Iceland and had nothing to do with the world. We are members of the European Economic Area. We adopt all our laws from the European Union when it comes to financial markets. There is no doubt that we fell asleep in danger, but one reason was that it was a false defense to adopt what was supposed to be the best expert in these matters, and we should have been more alert. The U.S. bank saved almost all of Europe. He even had to save Switzerland and other European countries, but not us. You're welcome. We saved Iceland by putting the emergency law right here, which all classes would humbly accept except left greens. There is no doubt that it was a very reasonable operation. I also pointed out that Reykjavíkurburg, the president of the United States, the Left Green and Pirata, had recently stood for the establishment of a deportation society. Now I don't know if it's to hide something or do something abnormal, I'm not going to do it, but I think something special how people talk at the same time as they do these things. Or perhaps the highest former minister of business who took a few brief calls on his decision regarding his relative when he became informed that he had participated in these decisions. In these terms, we have been on the lead, or lead, of other nations of OECD when it comes to working against tax fraud. For example, we are part of a group of 52 countries that signed an agreement on a common standards in Berlin on 29 October 2014 to provide information between them. We are one of the states called Early Adopters Group. We have participated in a joint campaign of environmental exchange agreements with low taxes since 2006. Then it was stepped in and put on a special budget to buy information about Icelandic people who own property in those areas. Then there are the CCS and the BEPS, and we are among those of the nations who are taking the lead in this regard. Then there's talk that we should set up a special research committee because of our societies. I think we're gonna need to see that we have some special surveillance agencies that are working on these things. We also need to decide whether we trust them in these works or not. I'm here to refer to the head of state tax and the head of the IRS. As far as I know, they'll work hard and give nothing left to deal with the tax frauds and, in particular, in this area, I hope there are other areas, too, than especially in this field. I would think it would be wise during the discussion that we would at least listen to the surveillance agencies before going to make some other battery. I think those people who are the best at removing these are the surveillance agencies. But in a similar way, we need to look especially at the laws of the earth, whether there is something we can do to make the tax environment simpler and more understandable. And so does the financial system, as John Kay refers to here. I encourage people to talk to him about these matters. I believe he puts things up the right way. I think maybe we should check the former dog's carpenter too. paritaprevir Mósesdóttir'daughter Lilja, who now did not get good trawlers in the left, green, during her last term, when she had all for ideas with us who were then in less trouble. Business committees to try to inform them of the ownership and the like. We're also supposed to start with that, that's what we've been working on and we're going to finish, for example, to open up information that's in the so-called secret room which is extremely important to inform us about. There we are also talking about negotiations of an enormous amount of property transfer from the state to private people who have never seen the day. What I find interesting in the Panamas, and I think that we need to look into the way our work has been with broken management, it seems that there has also become an appeal to certain individuals I at least didn't know about, maybe you just don't follow along properly. I hope this case has been handled in a way that made it an open and transparent process. We also know the sale of government through the banks. Vesta was high during the last term. Paying this season. However, when we received the answer from the Bank of America today, it was found that there were some products that did not seem to be in an open process. [[The president calls.]] We will call for more detailed information on this in the greater part of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u83	A respectable president. According to a report on April 25, 2016. Summing up a meeting report on the target: No. 5355 from Reykjavíkurburg reports the accounting of the greater section, consisting of the United States, the Bright Future, the Left Green and Pirates. I hope I have time to read it, with president's permission: The Court's approval is subject to the owner's agreement and is in the review process at the office of the office of the office of the office of the office of Jehovah's Witnesses in Reykjavík. The business comes to the relief of the city council in the event of the review. It should be noted that the greater part has made a clear warning about forming a foreign society in terms of taxes and will be discussed on this aspect of its treatment. That's what we're talking about. I reiterate at the same time that Ennis was based on this report, this is a foreign society. In view of the official data presented here, i.e. Reykjavík City conferences, see what. A senator that there's a difference between going out on these exercises - using a bean, I want to say that I'm opposed to these exercises, I don't think people should do this, and I'm not above the point of having disagreements with my politicians, it happens every day, and I'm just fine. But see what? A senator does not decide to do this in public conferences, with a discussion, in front of the media, or in the eyes of the media, so that there are no data in which the public sees them?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u84	A respectable president. I would like to read a report from the Tomorrow edition of April 22, this year, by permission of the president: Last year, the Power Institute agreed to start a foreign society on the insurance of its property. The decision was submitted to the owners for confirmation. No answer has been made. In other parts of the story, the emissary, Eiríkur Hjálmarsson, is called by permission of a president: ▪ Asking whether the government is still interested in the establishment of an African society, Eiríkur answers yes and adds that the matter has gained a considerable view and attention within the home. ▪ Humans were totally blind to the possibility of such an energy doubles. Even if the arrangement could mean that there would be an increase in taxpayers in the country, they knew that this arrangement was not undisputed, as he says. When asked how tax returns in the country, Eiríkur says that the cost of paying to foreign middlemen today would be profited by the energy company. A profit paid by taxes. We believe that this may include a financial gain for the company and its owners, but we are aware of the Mexican opinion, says Eiríkur. There's always been a prelude, and I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator refers to the fact that this is being arranged for the meeting. It would be better now if the public people didn't have things in conferences. [[Up front.]] If they talk about debinos until then, I think we have to talk about things the way they are. It is not convincing that at the same time as they say: Off-land society is to be completely decomposed, and they are not to be brought near it, at the same time that human society is to be formed. It's just not convincing. I think anybody can see that. Since then, I have been calling on whether those who have spoken to the European Union have revised their view of it if they are completely against it. I can't see that as long as the European Regulation is in this way that we can completely eliminate this. The important thing is, and I think we must agree that it's odd to say, "I really don't want to see an African society at the same time as men establish societies." [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u85	A respectable president. The debate about whether it should simply forbid demation or business with them or with them or with them or with how they are implemented is a long technical discussion, which I think is more interesting than people think. I'm sure that's the subject. On the other hand, I feel that there is a difference between the law of PGE on the other hand and the language on the outside. Financial and economic ministers, especially in the view that PGE is not the secretary of the fiscal matter. This is a big difference. It is also a process in the case of the Department of Energy, which takes place legally and openly, correctly. However, when it comes to individuals who do business in these countries, in the world, there are suspicions about their intended purpose, what will be done with them, what will be done for them, what activities they are practiced there, and what activities they are practiced there. This is not the case when such organizations are discussed in public evidence in a political public discussion, which is available to the media, and the social network is canceled by the administration of PGE. I think it was because people saw that the discussion raised suspicion. Some politicians, whether they are in politics or not, listen and listen to critical voices, and try to understand the suspicion that exists. They try to understand what it is based and respond in a way that will destroy it. The problem is, I see mainly in the way the reaction has been from the beginning. It's not just about the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics also thinks how the ex-fifth is. Prime Minister responded to the news. They were protecting it with their mouths, with their jaws, and with their fancy words that I'm not going to repeat this time. But see what? A senator does not really differ in the way he handles that subject or the supreme case. Secretary of finance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u86	A respectable president. Hv. I am very disappointed by a senator. I don't have to agree with what. A senator, but I've never felt so bad. A senator is a busy man. Now he says, "Listen! The Minister of Economic Affairs and, on the other hand, PGE is official, and it's okay, but it's okay. Secretary of finance, he's in it, and it's not in public. I think everyone who listened to that felt that way. A financial minister would now be forming a deportation society. Hv. A senator knows that this was 2006, ten years ago. He knows the highest. A minister was not then a minister, was not president of the Independence Party, and he participated in business. He gave it up and hasn't hidden anything in this regard. [[Up front.]] When it comes to speeches, it's like whiskers. A senator may have thought, " Yes, top dog. ' Secretary of the budget, he's got only a bunch of societies. But it's just not right. That was ten years ago. He was in business at the time. He has fully understood that. He did it all under tax laws. I refer here to John Kay, who I thought was a good boy. A senator, on the other hand, says that Ecosystem and Pirata had a difference between the legal establishment of demilitarized societies and whether they were doing this in order to cheat on taxes and to clean money. If we accept John Kay's definition, it is absolutely clear that the Supreme Court is in place. The financial minister has completely resisted the definition of which the professor of London School of Economics, preached here. I don't understand why men try to make it look that way. I don't understand why they don't want to discuss the problem tax subsidies and make them more materially what, for example, this government has done. [[The president calls.]] Can we do better? Then let's go over it. It's important. We were supposed to accept a suggestion. þm. The Lilja Mosesdóttir in the last term? [[The president calls.]] Maybe we should listen to some ex-whipped. A senator now? Maybe it would be nice if she went to a council meeting with the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u87	A respectable president. African society and tax industry are actually weeds in the food garden of our society. They undermine responsibilities and sympathy, provide a way out from sound rules, a crippling of competitive conditions, disrupting the foundations of the community that must be present, and is the basis for society to be driven on grounds of cohesion and responsibility. I feel that this is the right thing to say at the very beginning of my speech, especially in the light of the verbal exchanges that took place between them. Senators of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson's son and Helgi Djörn, Hrafn of Gunnarsson, just now. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson tried, and he stretched very far into it, showing that the work of an African society and taxpayer could be perfectly normal, as long as it was legal and did not involve tax collections. On the other hand, those who have come to know and have become involved in these matters have recently demonstrated in their speech and reasoning that the activities of national society and taxpayers, on the contrary, involve social indiscretions and undermines the combination and social responsibility. Thus, the effects of national and tax sector activities are not merely substantial but, rather, high, and competitive, but of the tax system itself and financial stability. Now we'll discuss a council proposal for a moment. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir is the first shipman to have a study of the number and function of members associated with Icelandic, individuals and legislators in the tax industry defined by OECD and the Icelandic government. The proposal assumes that in this order the President of the General Assembly will submit a report to the General Report in September 2016, i.e. The next fall, about the Icelandic people it has come across, but the final report by the end of this year's assessment of the scope of national activity and its impact on Icelandic society. The proposal also includes assigning financial and economic ministers to set up a special population of research and tax collections and other non-statutory activities, such as money laundering, which may have occurred with societies and is based on the information and results of the research committee. This proposal is truly timely, for it is already seen that there has been a great deal of tactics in the United States that have established such societies and that their share in this country is far beyond what is known in our neighboring countries and that if possible, it is necessary to reach something comparable in the countries around us. It is also worth considering that the information that has been presented in the Panama Documents, as indicated in the report, has only been linked to one Icelandic financial agency and one law firm, Mossack Fonsca, so it is next certain that the population of Iceland's population must be far more than ever observed in the Panama Canal. This has been much bigger when financial companies were forming societies of this kind at the time of the crisis, and demurrections exploded like mushrooms on a summer field, so I'll witness in a gold-tilling sentence. paritaprevir Aggressive Össur of Skarphéðinsson earlier today. Aggressors and taxpayers increase the wealth of capital owners, say in a paper with the proposal, which in this way fires from taxes laid in their own country, thus shaving to themselves the tax paid in their own country. They will be forced to either reduce the use of such as health - care and school work or to weigh the spells on the other taxpayers in the form of a report. It also has a fine outline of the fact that tax cover is taxation or low taxation, insignificant legal legislation on bank and financial functions, and secretive of the origin of the money stored there, in other words, an ideal land for money theft and ill money. The word clattering is kind of fresh and new when you think of the activities of these associates because they are designed to maintain and increase the division of wealth in the world and are preserved in the profit of a variety of illegal activities that affect the common people, such as weapons and drug trades, prostitution, mansales, etc. This is how the tax industry undermines the well - being and success of society, which, in turn, sees money that disappears into what is called a black hole. We should not get involved in the thought that such activities include social unhealthy, unhealthy activities that cannot be tolerated. It has now been found that this kind of activity has spread throughout all Icelandic society, far beyond our imagination, into the political parties, into the government of the country, where three ministers have been involved in such activities. The former prime minister himself found himself making contracts with demanding workers and making plans for abduction of currency but was at the same time a demander and owner of the land. He was forced to resign, but two ministers remain on a chair, including the country's secretary of finance, the highest government in Iceland, and talk as if national activity is a normal part of business. It is easy to speak of those who have no choice, of those of the Icelandic public who are stuck in the wood of the crown, but who have one more trip to look up at the princes, the princes who do not even remember where they left 50 million, whether they stayed in Luxembourg or the Seychelles like the highest. A secretary of finance who is struggling to sit up and beg to resign. Even now, the extent to which this activity has expanded into the Icelandic government system cannot escape the elimination of these organizations and overcome the unhealthy practices of their operation and access. That's why I'm glad to hear what's going on. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who earlier spoke about the importance of cutting up armies and making determined struggles to gather information about the number of these partners in order to find out just how much of the Icelandic economy is found in these African communities. We Icelanders and I have been proud of our rich democratic tradition. Until collapse, there was often talk of classless society. In fact, that film has been hugely bustling lately, so much to say is that society is at stake. It is important to clean up the garden, cut off the seed, and weeds that for years have been allowed to suck food from the root systems of plants planted for the benefit of society. That's where I'm talking about the combination, the welfare system, health issues, the schools. The weeds are the spirit that is responsible for the work of an ethnic group and a tax collector that involves irresponsibility, resulting in corruption and inequities. This eradication has to occur on many fronts at the same time. In politics, people must shoulder responsibility and go ahead with a fine example. [[The president calls.]] In addition, the government must work hard to eliminate the resources and cover - ups and the first step toward a study of the scope and nature of such events. That's what this proposal means, and I'm here to back her up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u88	A respectable president. Hv. A senator was trying to suggest that I was a special partner of a foreign background, saying that I had spoken in that way in the talk. I don't know what it is. A senator is referring. Maybe there's a reason. A senator showing that I specifically spoke to the United States of America. On the one hand, I referred to a guest of the United States who came here, a professor at the London School of Economics, who spoke up, with the permission of a president: ▪ He says that it is important to be careful and separate from the companies established in these countries for honest purposes and for the purpose of betraying taxes or talking money. I quoted those words. It's good to know if there's any. A senator disagrees with the opinion of the professor, to which the Conspiracy called. On the other hand, I referred to the Union's decisions to establish a foreign society for its insurance in Energy Institute. Left green, the Consequences and Piratars decided to do so in the management of Energy Agency. Hv. A senator spoke of this as a social unhealthy situation, that should uproot the weeds, that is, business dealings with societies showed a mental attitude of corruption, and that God knows what. I'll ask them why. Senator: Has she used herself at the scene of the United States to either protest this professor, now or object to what the city council does, or perhaps just informing herself of these foreign societies by the name of the Multi-Fjalar which seems to rent a place under market? Then it's interesting, and maybe we'll go back to that second answer to review the last terms and how the Conspiracy took place, for example. On the left. paritaprevir Lilja Mósesdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u89	...a hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u90	A respectable president. I can't quite figure it out. A senator is taking this case. He's found a foreign lecturer who came here yesterday, and I'm supposed to be protesting, and I'm probably writing a newspaper article protesting his comments in which he distinguishes between legitimate activity and crime like tax abduction. Of course, all of us make a distinction between legitimate activity and crime, but we also know that legitimate activities can involve immorality. What we're discussing about informing about the activities of national society and the tax industry in Iceland is a moral aspect of the matter because it undermines the consumption and community-based work we're in trying to finance by taxpaying. Or as someone put it so nicely earlier today: When you're trying to buy a ride with a first class, while you let the other cities, you're going to let the other rules apply to you than the other people in your living and growing-growing Icelandic crowns have to be overrun. The lecture's comments as well. A senator was referring to the lack of criminal proof of domestic activity, not proof of proof of the ability to drive such societies and extract tens of billions of dollars from economic systems into such activities. I'm basically against it because it doesn't mean there's one set of rules for everybody in one community. We're all supposed to sit at the same table. We're here to pay our taxes and duties. Some people should not be able to store their money in taxes on African islands somewhere south of the sea while others have to contend with the Icelandic crown. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u91	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. Senator. There are rules to be observed, and taxes are not to be defrauded; taxes are not to be defrauded, so simple, no matter what methods it puts into it. Here's what we're talking about. A senator's statement is no proof of national activity. Needs a what. So the senator's not going to talk to his people in the United States? [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator knows, as everyone knows, that the mayor at the head of the United States, the left green, and the Pirata was forming societies. [[Foreground on: No.]] Embarrassing to establish an African society, their government agreed to establish societies. I also asked why. A senator whether she knew anything about the appearance of the foreign partners with these strong - fat names, Fjölnir and Fjalar, who rented residences for the United States. On account of the news, I don't know more than what's going on in the news, it's under marketing interest, which's a big deal. I asked why. A senator if she knew anything about their existence because of these big talks being held here, I'm waiting for that answer. I'm also asking why. A senator, not just on the Fjölnir and the Fjalar, but on the European Union and the European Union. If we're going to work against tax fraud, and now it may be realistic, I don't know, I'm totally against tax fraud, no matter what names they call me, I'm not speaking for a relative I've said to be at best immoral, but what position has been made. A senator for the European Union? On the basis of the European Union, this is done, on the basis of the EEA Convention. These are countries that are key countries, EU nuclear states and the European Economic Area. So I ask. First of all, doesn't she have to discuss this in the United States? And I'm gonna ask you why. A senator knows something about these societies with the Tensian names I mentioned. I also drew attention to the respectable president that the lecturer was here last Saturday instead of yesterday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u92	A respectable president. I have no idea what these companies are doing. A senator was listing and linking with the United States... knows nothing about them, and he can't answer a question about that. The Senator asks me about the European Union and the European Economic Area as some basis for domestic activity. On my way up here in a pit, I received a photocopy of a news report that the five largest economic systems in Europe adopted action against taxes. This is what European rulers are doing in this matter. What's going to happen? The secretary of finance and chairman of the Independence Party, to do so? And where is he during this discussion that has handled this issue today? He hasn't been here in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u93	I went over what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u94	Mr. President. We'll discuss our left-green proposal for an investigation into Iceland's African societies and tax collections. The first carrier, please, has been handled well. paritaprevir Svavardótti Svavarsdóttir, what's going on. I'd like to establish what this arbitration, a dematerial institution, and to take money into a tax bill from the states in general and from Iceland, means for the rest of our communities and for their growth and well-being. Icelanders may not have realized it until now, when these informants reveal that they were so grazing in society, that the richest part of the nation was in a state of breaking up money and hiding property and trying to avoid paying its share in society. When this became so obvious, as when it became so obvious that 600 Icelanders are connected to 800 African societies through the tax cover and through the Bank of Lands Bank, which came in the leak from the law firm Mossack Fogseca, there is, of course, something wrong with people. They see that the reality is that in this country, two nations, the people working in the dark, and paying for the community, and those individuals and businesses who think they can be in first space here in the country and then take their wealth out and can't think of paying for the community and returning it to the infrastructure. It's sad, of course, but it's just reality. Tax sea and demurrements develop in the shelter of capitalism and liberalism. This is reality. Of course, that is why it needs to be handled. That's what we need to look at when we left men are building the equation in society, that there can be no feeling that some people will not participate in it, and that they will avoid it in taxes. Hence, the struggle against inequities and capitalism is as important today as it was 100 years ago. Maybe I'd like to take this a little bit of that into consideration because ahead of us is the international day of working people's struggles. There the requirement for an equalizing of the top of a magazine, as is so often the case in the past. How these issues have developed in real life is that they are working in secret and clearly against equations, whether in Iceland or out in the big world. The fact that 10% of Iceland's largest property has about 70% in Iceland is, of course, quite a powerful picture of how the nations have really become two in the country and that the part of Iceland is losing its money. According to one estimate, 80 billion taxes are being betrayed. However, statistics have also been made as to what it might be on the basis of what is expected in the tax industry and does not return to the country. Though it is held in the air, as it were. The secretary of finance and others, that those who have money in the tax industry pay their taxes to Iceland, that doesn't tell us it's reality. It cannot be verified. Wouldn't it be strange if all Icelanders could just give up some number and tell the tax that it was their income, and they wouldn't be able to verify it? I'm afraid that they could be heard somewhere from a corner if other members of society were to be counted out in that way. When I talk about the equation in general, in Iceland and between the worlds, there are 50% of the world's wealth on earth. That's how things are developing. Tax belt and demurrements are one of the links of this trend. Therefore, the Federal Republic of Iceland, as well as other countries, has to fight taxes. Men may now be getting conscious, and in the OECD, they are using themselves against taxes and five ministers of the largest European Union countries have spoken that way. But what is heard from our deputies? Where are they in this discussion? They shrink back from attending the discussion as it is here today, do not show their dignity in sitting on ministers' beds, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister. It tells a hell of a story about their interest in these matters over their heads. Of course, that's a lot of concern. But it can be proud that the nation has risen up and shown its anger and zeal by coming here and protesting as it did so vigorously on April 4 of the East. The result? Of course, the prime minister was afraid to fail, but other ministers who are just equally responsible for being linked to decommissioned societies and tax collectors are expected to see their dignity also in taking sides and making elections, for that is what we need to shovel the fool, as the former head of the Action Party said, that the fool must be shoveled in Icelandic society. It's not the Specialist Party and the Independence Party that obviously shovel the fool. It takes someone else to shovel the fool along these categories, for they also have a heavy responsibility for how Icelandic society has been developing and what caused the collapse. And this huge link between business and politics, professional life, and politicians, is, of course, something very dangerous, this interaction with power and money in society. That's not how I want to see an Icelandic society evolve. Now more and more is being revealed for people in the business world and in the pensions, high - ranking people in many places, such as the Commission of the Agency, and a number of people who are well covered in News class today, are connected with all of this. It's somehow overwhelming that we, this small community, Iceland, can't create a more healthy society than have been developing over the last few years with many shelters and taxes for corruption and other actions that have not endured the daylight. Of course, these matters have to be addressed. This suggestion has been made to take it firmly. The politicians who do not trust themselves in taking such matters as these, instigating taxes and debino societies, simply have no need to protect the interests of the common people. They cannot be trusted if they are not men to step forward and recognize that this is not how we can have things. This cannot be justified in one way or another forever. It doesn't make sense. I want to be at the end, because time flies fast as always, making one statement that I heard during the days, in view of a debate about debinos and tax belts. The guide says, with permission of the President: [[The president calls.]] His hand was always slow to help the little ones. Still, Never Walked a Crime but the street alongside him. This is by Bjarni Gíslason. I feel that these references are very relevant to many today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u95	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Rafney Magnúsdóttir Rafaeldóttir for her speech. The end of the game seasoned her well, she was good. Hv. A senator is one of the representatives of the proposal we address, the tax cow, and the rest of the country. Hv. A senator spoke far and wide about such activity and its undesirable aspects, and I agree with each word in that regard. There is no doubt some political aspect of this discussion. I'm not there. I can say it here and now that I support the suggestion, I think it's good in many ways, especially the goals that are at the end of the motion, which are twofold. First, it is to evaluate the effects and the scope of taxes on society. It would be very useful for all parties and society all. Second, it is to reach them on the basis of the data the earlier committee mentioned in the motion would work to reach those who have not given up money from such activities and would release taxes. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament has to do with the objective and setting up of the proposal, because it goes to the management and monitoring committee. I'm going to refer to the speech of the governor who spoke of his being the crying in the wilderness and who had for a decade pointed to this operation and the problems associated with it. [[The president calls.]] What does it want? A senator tells us about the slow response of society, the media, and us. Councilmen doing that? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u96	Mr. President. True, it has become a change of viewpoint in not so many years. We saw ads from the Lands Bank in 2000 that the bank helps the company get money into dematerials in taxes, we call it a tax host because it is, in certain countries such as Tortola and other countries. The country's population has not realized how much relief the economic capital was at that point, which was affected by social structure and infrastructure. I also mention the health system. We could keep it free of charge if we were to add 2◯3 billion to it now. We're talking about tax fraud in the country, and maybe 80 billion, and the number of demurrements has been mentioned in the United States, so it's not even a small amount of money. It's a cold American society by acting this way to it. As noted, during the last terms, CC rules were implemented which made those countries with money to a tax host obliged to provide information. There were a number of rules in the tax law so that people could not avoid paying taxes and, as has also been said, taxes within their private partner, capital taxation, increase from 10 to 20%, and some rules were hardened. So people have been working on it and have been strengthening this office. But they would have to be strengthened much, much more than we do today, for it will return to society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Rafney Magnúsdóttir Humbert Mikkidóttir answers. I think you're right. A senator says. It often takes some kind of event, like the huge amount of data leaks from the Panamas, although it's not an unexpected one. All of us know that the years before the collapse of property were planned to form on banks. It took nothing but to go on the website and see the ownership of the banks. It was only on the bank website. It was a foreign possession. Then we didn't know where it got to. As a result, the General's study report made it available. This is no surprise. But it often takes more to develop a change of mind. It often builds on a foundation and a validated estimate that is built over a long period of time. I'll follow this question and ask why. A senator would believe that this will result in the change of attitude needed for business and tax collections. Then we can take advantage of all the work we do. I appreciate that this concierge proposal is positive and into the procedures that have been taken. There are information deals and regulations. The discussion has shown the response of five states at the spring meeting of the International Cash Fund and the World Bank. I think that's a very positive thing. Is it not also international?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u98	Mr. President. Happily, our attitude is changing. That's a lot of good things. I'm very pleased with your language. A senator in this matter, and many would be able to imitate him, for that is exactly what we need to think and speak, no matter where we are in our community, whether we are in our business, business, or where, ordinary employees, governments, and all the ruling parties. You need to put together and counteract the bad spirit that some constantly try to shrink back from social responsibility and give up the burden of social structure on the shoulders of far too few people. Disfellowshipping of the world's wealth can take on the poorest nations and their advancement. It is getting out of their vast financial system and installing taxes, where those who have the most wealth can make it grow very fast but do not use it for social building. It is estimated that tax waste costs poor countries at least 170 billion dollars per year. Thus, each year poor countries lose $170 billion in taxes. It's a terrible thing to hear such numbers, because if we all do what we do and return to the community, it could be much better for every person on earth. But I'm glad to hear the language going out there. Senator. I hope more people come after him and speak on the same line and support the motion, as I challenge the whole body of Congress to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u99	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing on the investigation of Iceland's own communities and tax collections. The occasion is not pleasant, as most of us know. We've been through here, including... for members of the body, including the U.S. on the topic of conversation, that it was being discussed in a personal way, not out of reason, as discussed at the university at lunchtime, but that I would like to remind you, of course, that the reason is very personal. In this room are ministers who have become aware of their own business in the tax industry. Prime Minister has resigned. So it is not surprising that we demand answers, and we have not really received them to a very small extent. V.E.G. The minister of finance has not seen a reason to discuss these very sad issues. I like what you're doing. A senator mentioned earlier thank you for your support from nightfall. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson because I think it is important that we combine to try to eliminate and solve these issues as well as we can. The Panama Insect may primarily show what good research journalism can bring, and it, of course, adds to the General's study report. So it's possible. These data can be downloaded. It must be done in such a way, and here it had to be done. It is not enough to give the information some Icelandic people have been asked to give; they claim to have paid for this taxes and duties; they have reported this on tax returns; they have paid everything in the state funds, etc. An tax investigator has said that it cannot confirm these statements. Thus, they have very limited value as such. We know that, it's crystal clear that debinos are set up for some purpose, they're not both because they're not, you know, because they're not. We might as well have our money at home if it's all right and we don't have any purpose. I find it very foolish to say that there is no point in having a life of ease in a foreign society. It is, in all places, bad from social viewpoints. It's a scene that companies use to bring their profits, including From here where he should be taxing otherwise, since we may not be able to trace all contact. That was exactly what it said about how it was with the banks, now such as webs and claws, and in some cases it was very difficult to find out who was behind it. This is clearly a scene that makes it possible for people and businesses to break free from laws that apply in Iceland as well as in other countries. This is a metastasis, and this is a threat to a single state, as was exactly the case, especially a poorer kingdom, and this is corruption. This is clearly depravity. There's washed money, there's trustees and drug barons, and God knows what. So there are probably honest companies, I'm not going to say anything else. But the point must be something, it's not just because. It has been said that we will be 80 billion here in Iceland every year just because of traditional tax frauds and tax lovers. We do not know whether our resources, our sea resources, or other resources are being exploited abroad. Perhaps that will be the case in these documents. We do know, however, that during the collapse, huge financial resources went out of the economy in the area of these communities, the private parts of the Icelanders, to taxes. As I've said before, those who have a passion and think it's morally acceptable to avoid this kind of law, to act outside the system we live in here, I don't feel that they are required to govern this society through the Ministership or government, and therefore have said that they should resign. I keep that word. I don't think that's an acceptable hearing, either on the tip of the day. Prime Ministers, financial and economic ministers, to speak in such an irresponsible manner, to try to kill the case over and to minimize it, even to say that Iceland is a tax agent. It is worth wondering when you wonder why these gentlemen do not see the reason for saying that many have claimed to be true or some other non - prime minister. These are all the members of a community that had long ago, some new ones, but these are people who have decided to step aside because they think it would be more convenient for the communities they've been working for, like, a pension fund and others. Yet, the government does not see the reason for that. So there are some others who do this, not the members of this country. I'd like to go through a little bit why these Panama files have something to do with feminists, but it's very important that we just keep it in place. An article published in opendecracy.net translated into Knutz quotes a woman who makes a product, sells it, and has to pay taxes because the tax collectors come to her, so she can't avoid paying. Of course, this is not the tax issue we are discussing. We are discussing the people who, in a financial sense, rock the top, find ways to get away from paying taxes, and they take on people like those poor people. This is also a reflection of power because most people in the Panamas are men, which is also interesting to themselves. This was just how much taxes cost us - $2 billion - that is what this means. We need to keep in mind that this is one reason why poor people around the world are unable to obtain education, even health care, or eating, or God's things. Unable to earn money from wealthy individuals or businesses, we may have to raise indirect taxes. And what can we not see here? We've been reducing indirect taxes to some extent, but it's not reflected in the price we're supposed to get. In fact, this has the most impact on what has the lowest income, and there are women all the same around the world. This is one of the things I think we need to keep in mind, for those who feel that this is moral in order to hide their profits, or to take it out of a country like this, of course, do not pay for the welfare system as they should, to the people who produce and, of course, create the work effort today and, of course, the future. We're here to fight for a more reasonable system. We are to fight for a better political policy so that both poverty and insane wealth will not be present and all, both women and men, will come to decisions at all levels. As Canada's prime minister said, when 2016 came up and everything else was really ridiculous. We need to root out a tax system that enables the wealthy to avoid paying their share to the community. A respectable president. As we would like to see, time continues. Finally, I just want to say that any politicians, whatever they may be, who do not make a direct recommendation against African society and African society must be in a position to fail to understand how they affect economic activities, how they affect the public in the country, and to the future how all welfare communities will be affected. I must say, I've felt the highest. The ministers of this government would be in a position where they might not seem to understand this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the talk. I'm going to take part in the Senate resolution proposal and run a little technically into it. I used to say against what. paritaprevir My daughter, Magnúsdóttir Electrical Rafney, supported this suggestion, and I support it based on the goals that appear at the end of it. I connect the two options that first appear in the motion to the two goals. The first way is to set up an investigational committee, in accordance with the laws applicable to research committees, in order to control this dimension. The second way is later connected with the objective and is to reach out to those who have shot at taxes. This is a special research group. Budget and economic secretary will start a job that has been won by the NTSB. It is stated in the first way, which focuses on the first objective of evaluating the extent, that the NTSB will provide information and results to the government and the other authorities. Is it not unavoidable, in view of the current work to form on the basis of the data bought or the tax investigator was authorized to buy, that there will be some cooperation between the Commission and the tax authorities, in view of the measures that have already been carried out? This may be more specific and detailed in the work of the administration and monitoring committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Cooperation may not be inevitable, but no doubt it would be wise. It could also help with the relief of work. I'm the spokeswoman of people working together and looking for solutions together. I think this is something that could come and probably be carried out in the work of the Committee when the case goes to her. I understand that the data that has already been published should be published, i.e. information from the Panama leak, on the currently existing website of the company. We have to remember, though, that this is only from Mossack Fogsecca. Of course, there are more African societies and companies who are specialized in helping individuals and businesses to store their money and possessions there. I think it's a good thing that as many people can do this to share information, it can't be that big that people can't get their arms around it, that people don't get together to win it, but that's more in the form of calling people in and getting data and all of it. So when we come to a particular conclusion or route, I assume the tax investigator will accept the case, if there's a case involved, let's do it. I suppose, though, given the way this thing is done, and as I understand a tax bill. As I said earlier, they do not come about just because they have some kind of profit, although it is not strictly illegal. We also do not know if all things have been delivered, and an tax investigator has said that she cannot prove it. [[The president calls.]] So I hope this work will do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u102	Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir answers. I thought I knew the answer for sure and why. A senator explained this very well. I think there'll always be mutual work. On the way two, the study group, at its highest level, is made clear. Financial and economic ministers will order or be committed according to the motion, in turn, or in cooperation with the office of the tax authorities. I see a whole connection between goals and routes and roles between both groups. I continue to ponder over technical issues and the meanings by giving the NTSB a report, here is the September 2016 date, but I am very pleased to have such a preliminary report to evaluate the work of the Committee. I think that the work of the former committees was a matter of time, and the General wasn't informed in stages, so I think it's a very good step, whether there were other reasons or special reasons for this work. So here's a report, actually not very detailed, or it's short and targeted and about what has been done in this field, international and perhaps less here. I mentioned earlier, CFC rules and information exchange agreements and other things like that. There have been recommendations from both offices, local taxpayer and tax investigator to see if it would be the role of this research group to take up the hint and make suggestions for reform and law, whether this is the problem. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u103	Mr. President. The senator's status report is correct. I think it's very important, and I was just getting answers from two councilmen on the committee. I think one of the things the council can do better when committees are ordered to set aside time frames for them. I think it's too much that we're making committees that don't have time frames. I agree with that about the big research committees we've ordered that we have learned from them, I hope so. It has just been recommended that the activity is somewhat improved. It's in the mind of us keeping track of the progress. We all agree that some of the reports that have been published, both in the time schedule and at expense, had been better handled, and at times things that would not have been necessary. But first and last, it's all about what's being traced here. What else is involved and whether we can do anything better with the CCC rules or information agreements or something like that, this work must be revealed, whether there will be any side product or result, or something that these parties will find necessary to do to make it even better, and probably do it. Like I'm saying, it's not my favorite if it's hanging on to everything. I have strong faith that the council will remove this fairly quickly, since we agree, I hope, it is important to go into this. You hear that people think they're important. In fact, we still experience, a little after the collapse, something that people associate with dishonesty and corruption, and something like that. We need to understand these matters. I think that's one way to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u104	A respectable president. I'd like to speak a few words about this and start by thanking the movers for making it available. There is good reason to investigate the number and function of partners who are involved in taxes. We know this one thing about the situation that has come up with all the news that has been received and has shaken the world in the last few weeks from one law firm, Mossack Fonseca, Panama. She is not the only legal firm in Panama and Panama. Besides, there are dozens of taxes. We also know, based on what has been happening in the international bank world, that the way Mossack Fonsca, which the Lands Bank offered for collapse, was a cheap, simple way to get money into the tax industry, was a kind of petition for those who wanted to get money into cover. Other more expensive and more complex ways were offered elsewhere. We don't know anything about them. Therefore, it is a good spirit to be seen in the suggestion of the subject, to cover the scope of contact with the Icelandic party. Then I especially want to make an observation to the very best of words. The minister of finance has discussed this proposal and the false ones he has used in his case. To be honest, I have to say here that, of course, it's completely absurd that he's not present for the discussion. He said in unsubstantiated inquiries yesterday that the proposal was obligatory because it assumed that the names of those involved would be exposed to the terms of taxes and property in them. It is a grammatical viewpoint that can be reasoned in what way to reveal or make public information of this nature, but it is not logical to the highest degree. A minister said here yesterday, that because of the support of CFC taxation legislation, the representatives of this proposal and other government personnel at the last council had thus renounced their right to take some action to limit property to the taxes, fester or take some further action against them. The CFC legislation legalized during the last terms was forced protection to ensure that income from demurries came to Iceland irrespective of everything else. It did not include general recognition that tax management is a positive and upbuilding part of Icelandic commercialism. So I don't think it's right to set things up in the highest fashion. A minister did so. However, I am able to agree with him by saying that the exact publication of information there would be structured in a committee. It is quite clear, however, that it is very important for the overall study to be done on this scale and that in order to be made possible to get information from the fact that the victims of fallen banks have no knowledge of the extent of these enterprises elsewhere but only through Mossack Fancyseca and Lands Bank. A respectable president. I'm not going to give this speech longer than just thank you for delivering the matter to the authorities, hoping that they will get a job and a favor.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator about one thing, who is chairman of the United States and was leading a conference that covered this very subject, I understand that it was pretty successful and interesting, but I had no place in it for the last weekend. I understand that the talk of one of the key speakers would make a clear distinction in the discussion of debinos between communities that were founded for legitimate purposes and others. I wanted to know what. A senator agreed, and thus, in a sense, he can accept the value of a relative or a partner in a so - called foreign country. Then there's the other thing I'm wondering about, i.e. the content of this council proposal that sounds to me. A member of the United States has decided that a group of people will be assigned to all national or international members of Iceland. I wonder what. In view of the very fact that humans have been referring to these organizations that they have been established for the very purpose of concealing property, a member of the council has come to believe that they have been established in some way. Has a what? A senator took a look at this? I wondered about this, because of what. A senator will lead a group that seems to be connected with some of the unrecognizable property, that is, the Fjalar budget and the count, if I recall correctly, which are the owners of real estate in which the Conspiracy is in. Has a what? A member of the U.S. Marshal's field of information beyond what has been reported in the media, but they have not really been any of the property of these associates. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u106	A respectable president. I don't know the details of tenures, they just have to explain it themselves and have done it and published it. However, I have noticed that the main news medium, which has discussed that subject, the Morning newspaper, has presented both late and poorly correction and information from owners of the home. Perhaps it can be explained by how large a leg is for the otherwise broadcast. That's why. A senator then asks that the separation between legitimate partners, dematerialists and others is required, we must agree with the definition of the head of the state tax and the head tax authorities that there are only two reasons for having a partner in private property, that is, on the other hand, to hide property, to get away, e.g. Rules about interest issues, interest logs or any other factors, or to avoid tax recovery. It's confirmed. This may be the case, as has recently been reported, on both the European Environment Agency and the Anti-Center of Reykjavík, who have wanted to have companies in the low tax nations to get a better credit. In that case, neither holding property nor avoiding taxation are being included, as they are included here in the taxation conditions of these enterprises. Under these circumstances, it is quite possible to imagine that there is a possibility of being in low taxes. Still, in the movement of equalmen, we have taken a moral stand against taxes. The next item on the agenda is our proposal for a business ban against low taxes in order to force them to compromise their manners and participate in international taxation policies and common tax bases. We firmly believe that a tax competition is of evil and undermines social well - being in our countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u107	A respectable president. Hv. A senator should, in my opinion, have used the occasion and the opportunity to inform us of the corrections the Morning paper has been sent but has not been published on the property of the Fjalari and the Mountain, associates that seem to have received money from the former unions of the Old and the People Party. I'm rather sorry for the Speaker of the United States Chairman, huh? A senator, planning to cross so many boundaries with the communities he makes here. On the other hand, because this refers to tax authorities'position on the purpose of the so - called African society, I call attention to the report of the tax fraud commission, one of the many reports of many tax frauds that have been made in this case since 2003, 2004, which included the precise tax investigator, the tax tax taxpayer and customs director at his time. The government tax manager was then an Indriði H., Þorláksson, a special adviser, e.g. The last government in the tax business, but they just submitted a report in those years that specifically discussed tax-paradise and tax laws that are specifically presented by President's permission, if I quote the report: You're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. There is, at least, some of the authority's viewpoint on the fact that they can be right, or at least their societies in these countries. Hv. A senator did not answer my question, perhaps the essence of my answer. In what way? A member of the United States suggests that a group of people do the important work involved in listing all the communities possible for Icelanders in the so - called continents? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u108	A respectable president. I am absolutely aware of that, to answer a question. The senator she finished her inquiry here, that it is not simple to set up a research committee of this kind. I suggest that members of the Committee be very careful about what research documents should create and the possibility to find out the truth. As I said in my case earlier, all we know is that one law firm that worked for one Icelandic bank has turned 600 Icelanders into a tax emissary, but we know that all three of the big banks before a collapse offered this service and we don't know anything about the scope or solutions there. It is inevitable to dig through this to the full. Therefore, there is a need to find effective ways to do so. I mentioned before if the house of the fallen bank could be demanded to open its books in this regard. Then the other thing that I find truly beneath the dignity of a man. A senator's bringing in slander, for it is only slander to claim that something is unclean in the financial dealings of the Union with its landlords. It is certainly true that money has become the possession of the People's House and Sigfus fund over decades for the work of Icelandic labor workers who have contributed to building houses for the work. They bought houses rented by the Conspiracy. Starting in 2006, it became clear that even if there was a duty to a party, the market rent could be paid to pay for it. Thus, the entire accounting of the Conspiracy has been arranged from their taking of the law. A public review has been conducted to monitor and to be fully aware of the links between the parties to the Controversies and no comment is made on the results of this and the accounts of the United States. Slander of this kind, trying to throw a poor price on property and thus conceal some unclean flour in the sachet corner, some of which are benefited financially by those associates or such things as unclean, immoral, and nonviolent. A senator's manners. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u109	A respectable president. I'm going to start by celebrating this discussion today and thank you for it. I don't think she has to go down to the plan we were on here at all. The matter is very serious and must be met in the way and in the seriousness of such matters. It is quite clear that our community has a major task in its hands after the discovery of so-called Panama documents and all that followed. Here we must make a clear distinction between lawbreakers and those who do not violate laws. That's what I think is the main thing. I think it's the main thing that those who can take their money on a so - called tax field to keep their commitments and pay their share to the community sit shamelessly. It is intolerable that the citizens of this country are discriminated against in this way, that some have to face more loads than others in order for us to run hospitals, schools, road systems, etc. I repeat the words I have made from this discourse. I simply don't understand what goes on in the mind of people who think that way and who can think of letting others carry more weight in order to let go of themselves more easily. So for the council, there are two draft proposals that will be expected to be discussed here today. It makes sense to find many things and things that I would like to see differently, as they go and do. But we should examine all the suggestions and evaluate what is good in them, and what can help us to do so in the fight against this global ill, as all nations around the world do right now. The more people put on it, the better. It is good to know that Iceland's Department of finance responded immediately to April 6 by sending an official tax manager, tax investigator, and customs manager a letter asking what might be done to cope with the situation. Now these suggestions are likely to be submitted, and it will be interesting to hear from the financial authorities in this country what suggestions they offer on how we react. It is clear that the attitude of governments around the world is changed after the so - called Panama Documents. The G20 have come to a conclusion. OECD responded quickly and safely. A meeting was arranged in Paris with representatives of 38 states on the Panama Documents a few days ago. Of course, that meeting had a short lead. It involved action on the basis of these informants. The meeting was arranged for Iceland's representative of the government tax manager's office, tax investigator and financial agency. What a joy to hear that! We are in full contact with the international partnership because this evil will not be eradicated, i.e. except that we all stand together. I don't think it's strange that this is a group of political issues. You shouldn't have to be in this case. It is clear that we senators who work here and do so honestly, all of us stand together to keep people from breaking laws in this country. Only from the political bitch I believe, I feel that the tax burden on people of this country is just high enough and great and it is obvious that it would be lower, just as the Independence Party fights, if men didn't try largely to avoid shouldering their burdens to the community, and getting a free ride, as I have called it. There's money left behind, which makes this country's taxprofen bigger than it would have to be, which is very unfortunate. As I told you earlier, the fight against tax fraud is not possible except by international cooperation, especially in exchange for information. This is an important part of Iceland's involvement in the work of the OECD economy. The Agency has indeed had a prenup to develop a common standard where Member States commit themselves to regularly exchange information on financial assets and their income. Information exchange is carried out without a specific request from the states. For years, the United States has stressed participation in this cooperation, and as mentioned earlier, we are in the full range of our institutions, which certainly do not remain in that regard. It's very good to know. I'd like to finally reiterate that I'm celebrating these council mishap proposals. I don't necessarily agree with everything in it. On the other hand, I like the fact that these matters are discussed here at the High Council. I want to have as much discussion as possible on these matters. I think they're that big, and seriously, they need a lot of discussion. The people too need to take part in that discussion. We must consider things and also have the knowledge of the matter to distinguish between what is fine and what is not right. But often I feel that this is not quite clear, and I myself often feel that I lack information about how the rules of play we want to have. I'd like to trust in the General and Council of these litigators in order to present counsel to us members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u110	V.E.G. President. I'm here to compliment you. A senator for being a fellow member of the Independence Party who is trusting in and participating in the discussion is about the important suggestions discussed here. My question to why. In view of her speech, I thank her very simple to a senator, for whom I thank her: Be patient. A member of the Parliament that this body's conclusion is like this or something changed after the work of the Committee will be approved at the General before the Senate is completed?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u111	A respectable president. I believe that part of what we're doing in the Senate arrangement we're doing now and then. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir is the first shipman to be, is something I could wish to support, for example, in the case of a research committee and that a team needs to be established. I also find this very interesting to be the petition that will be discussed below, which states that the General concluded to hide the government from international business pressure against - I don't want to call it a low tax state, rather tax control. I really like getting these ideas up here. We have to look at every way possible to get into these damn holes. I'm just celebrating, as I always say. But, of course, the proposals need to be handled by the council. But as it is now, I'm there with good positive points in both suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u112	V.E.G. President. I repeat my question, and I just want an answer, yes or no, but I add: once the proposal has been passed on to a committee, has been through it, may or may have just put it back on the same page, it has been observed by one of the government's members, what. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurvensson, to support the proposal, and to her very much, just as I believe he has been given a speech. paritaprevir Elín Hirst, whom I greatly rejoice. I always like it when Congress officials are not so bound to their parties or to the administrative community that they give up independent opinions. I think that's why. A senator was here expressing his support. Therefore, I repeat my question: After the hearing of a committee, what would be the case? A senator would like to stand by us to agree with a synopsis proposal to set up a committee based on the NTSB laws and all of that, as a result of the end of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u113	A respectable president. I work here at the council according to my own convictions, and I just can't write on an unpublished check like that. Kristján L. Möller must understand. I support the fact that these issues are true. But, of course, I want to have my hand in a bag with how they're going to be so permanently implemented, which is why I'm here at work. I think the main thing to say is that I think it's good for people to come up here with ideas on how to handle these matters in order to try to eliminate this ill, which I call, without necessarily needing in this chair here and now to resign or whether I'm going to support exactly what will be so far the conclusion of the council. I hope so much because it can't help.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u114	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm in a place similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir Kristján Möller. In accordance with the nature of the situation, you listen when you hear a positive tone from a member of the council to this proposal. I had already noticed why. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson had simply declared support for the proposal, he did so here in a speech earlier, and wly. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson said something positive is in the motion. I'm just trying to figure out if there's any general support, because I've heard members of the U.S.R.s that think it's good and important. Hv. paritaprevir Elín Hirst speaks of positive points, as she puts it, and although the suggestion is somewhat thought - provoking, I would like to pray. A senator sharing it with us because she speaks of the role and assignment of the research committee and the research team as a project that she considers to be a legitimate reason to attack on - if I understand it correctly, she will correct me otherwise - whether there is something in the suggestion that she feels may either lose or be able to change in some way so that we can start this conversation. Of course, as we know at the council, the tendency is that if a case arises and is brought up by the opposition of the government, it tends to be unsolved there, as it were. Of course, as soon as we hear positive sounds, we have reason to expect that something is behind it and that we can take it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u115	A respectable president. In the first part of the council the decision made left green for a study of Iceland's Offland Society and tax collections says that the Committee should record all African societies, anywhere in the world, that have associated with or have been linked to Icelanders. It will be published at the end of the Committee's Special Community Associations Index for all concerned and the names of concerned partners and individuals and information about the location of the tax industry. The NTSB will provide information and results to the government and other authorities on the current level of activity. I wonder what frame men are setting here because I think it's very important that we handle what's illegal. We are not talking about, for example, that investing abroad is necessarily bad. I don't want to see that Icelanders leave Iceland on a large scale because they think they don't have the freedom to pursue honest financial transactions, not just within the country, but also abroad. Without diving deep into it, I feel that the first part of the council arrangement is the weakest part of it. However, I feel that the second part is something that I would like to look at and as much as the proposal we're going to discuss on business pressure against the tax countries, so I'll just say it just as it comes from the heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u116	President. Of course, it is important to be able to have a material conversation about these matters. There were also some information on the owners and the activities of various financial organisations, etc. without any criminal list. The thought there was, just as it is here, leading mainly to the fact that it is important to the public that there's a state of transparency. I think it's very important that we be guided. We are talking, not about some sort of list of guilty individuals, but about a list of those who own or who have been involved in taxes. Hv. A senator is very busy speaking clearly and being prepared to discuss what we are talking about here, and I also feel very important that we distinguish between having money abroad and having money in taxes. The basis for this proposal is that the front line is there, and it is the same line as the OECD countries draw. Hv. A senator is very busy with legitimate matters and not legitimately, that if a job is legitimate, we will be fine. Then I ask, "What does it say?" A senator's claim to a number of investigators and local and foreign bodies that tax shelters are a site where the benefits of every kind of criminal activity and other ill - gotten funds are mixed in the secret treasure of big corporations and fortunes and that thus we are creating an ideal land for whitewashing such money? For this reason, the price of paying taxes is as they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u117	A respectable president. I find it very difficult to see someone measuring back so - called tax documents hiding money in order to get away from paying what people have to pay for it. Such an arrangement cannot be measured. As far as it goes, I'm naturally on the same line as OECD has declared. No one needs to wonder. But just like what's-his-face. Svavarsdóttir I would like to, as I say, to be careful with this matter, and not to lose ourselves in some rage. This must be done as carefully and carefully as possible so that the true is truly revealed. Transparentness is essential for politics to function as they should and to do what they should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u118	V.E.G. President. We will discuss the proposal of the left movement for a study of Iceland's Offlanders and tax collections, a great deal and a good proposal, and I agree with what many have said this is a big deal. I would like to say at the beginning of my speech that the Council cannot complete its work, no matter when it will be this year, and during this election period, without approval of such proposals. All of this begins with the Panama Documents being published. Much information was found there, and much has happened since then. This proposal covers an investigation of the mass and activities of partners associated with the Icelandic, individual and legislators, and those in the tax sectors defined by the National Economic and Development Institutes and the Icelandic Governments, and the use of legislation on the General Assembly research committees to go to that work. I remind you, the highest. The president of Generalis recently recommended a change in that law from the Presidency Committee. I also remind you that at the General Assembly, we agreed to study the privacy of the banks in 2003, even though that investigation did not start and the lack of money did not blame them. Surely this vast amount of information and the discussion that followed by the Panama Documents support the need for such work. There's been a lot since the Panama papers were published, a lot more than that, and it's drawn a lot behind. I am impressed by this discussion of how few executives participate in it and attend it, except for one individual independent who has spoken and another who has left it, and one candidate who came in short answer. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who declared support for the proposal, could not have heard anything else. He is chairman of the Economic and Business Committee and should be grateful for his honesty. Then there is what has happened in the past. paritaprevir It's like the Elín Hirst, and I'm told by what I hear. paritaprevir I'm sorry, Willum Þór Þórsson, whom I didn't hear in that I had to get out of the house a little bit. So I'd like to say as I told you earlier that I don't believe that every member of the board gets tied up in such a way that they're preventing them from understanding these documents and information without responding to them, because there's a lot that's come to light. I remind you that today a meeting was held at the university, which included a tax investigator. In one of the media today, Bryndís Kristjánsdóttir, a tax investigator who purchased data on the alleged avoidance of Icelanders, says that there are 600 communities that connect about 400 persons, that there are not nearly 400 communities that cannot be connected with the names of certain individuals. It also shows that a complex process is introduced, and we have seen it in Castlight that all of this is undoubtedly done to mislead a vision. But the story says, with permission from the President: ▪ This is the largest information base on such issues that the tax authorities have ever received, as Bryndís said. However, there is no financial information in the data, so the project of an tax investigator is trying to get that information. It was noted at a meeting of the tax investigator with the members of the smaller section that in these taxes it is not mandatory to submit annual accounts or data. Here's the main reason, except to hide money, because people are looking for a tax place. Even if companies are registered in countries that are in the European Union or that belong to the European Economic Area, such as Luxembourg, a community is established in a strange islands to hide a trail. The difficulty that the tax authorities face in this regard was illustrated by the case of the tax authorities. It can be observed, perhaps in the CFC rules, which were legalized during the last term of the then-to-be government, to pay e.g. 100 million. K. Special expenses. But what is quite remarkable and explains how this is, and what the tax authorities are dealing with is that if the tax authorities want to dissociate themselves on how this special cost was paid, they cannot be told. That's the explanation for how this is done. A respectable president. In the Senate arrangement, we do not have time to discuss all the issues we would like to discuss because we have only ten minutes with the previous one. I'm not going to extend the discussion for more than ten minutes because I believe it is urgent that the case be taken to the committee, that the committee would send it out for review and be treated, and that it should be proposed to the council to another. before Congress ends. Then I'll find out why it's done. It has been shown how much this amount is and how much taxes we get on account of it. I think back to Easter 2008, six months before the collapse. Just before Easter, there was a significant decrease in success here on the land, 71⁄2-10% if I recall correctly. What I want to know is what happened then. Then they weren't capitalists. Was it an abnormally high or very high capital transport that made it a challenge in two or three days? I remember well, Mr. Honorable President, how relieved men were that Easter was coming and all banks and banking systems were shut down. I also remember that this led to a discussion on whether the Lands Bank and Glits could be united. Perhaps at the beginning of the fall that occurred in October 2008, there was sparking. But what happens in there? In my opinion, there has never been a proper explanation for what happened two days before the Passover in 2008. I'd like to say, both from what was presented at the meeting I quoted with the tax investigator and because of the screaming silences of the State Department, that I think ministers should sit here, at least at the beginning of the hearing, because the members of my body are sitting here when ministers present their case. I've always felt that it should be mutual. This matter is much bigger than any other body of Congress proposals, and I feel very sorry that the ministers are not present and that they do not participate in the discussion. I notice that there is news that the government has decided this morning to appoint a committee, a council office, and the tax reforms to go through this work. I also note that the opposition to government is not being invited into that working group. I would have liked to see a transboundary job that would be done at that point, and I want to take it to make a contribution, and I want to finish it quickly. Of course, the proposed research committee is entitled to the full because there are so many other activities to consider. I call attention to the fact that in the Panama Documents that have been published, there seems to be always something related to the Lands Bank's activities in Luxembourg. Then I ask myself, " What did the other banks do? ' Did they get involved? I don't know, but it's a very serious question. Finally, I'd like to say that this is something that I feel very important to us Icelanders to know about. They are members of the Icelandic people who have had their money in taxes, currency heads from collapse, and even trade in the fallen banks by buying the price of money there, that is a requirement for swelling. It may be difficult to find out because I am told that people can buy in funds and such things, for example. in the great America, to go through this. But the question is persistent. It has often come to my mind whether we senators can use us to ask questions about the banks we have most in and to inform us if we can draw out the information there is. [[The president calls.]] I'm told it's very difficult. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to finally say that I think it's very important that this Council's Reunion proposal will be given a quick, well treated committee as soon as possible to return to the Senate Hall for a second discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to start by saying that I take my heart out for last words. The senator has the hope that the proposal will be given quick and effective treatment on the committee. I'd like to add that this is one of the matters I believe very strongly that we will finish before the end of this council. This is one of the important things that need to be concluded in my mind. It was interesting to me what was said in the language of the day. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, who rejoiced, and I count rightly, for a few years. Committee members have answered, and some have declared support for the proposal. In fact, I'd like to let myself say that I'm just happy when the members of the Management Board are participating in discussions about the proposals of my section even if they disagree with them because I think the discussion also matters. Hv. A senator mentioned what had passed me on in the news that a government appointed a government committee with a representative council on this matter. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator: How do you read it? A senator in absence and silence of the Honourable Minister of the government on this matter? Is he the one within me who feels like they're just running from the conversation and doesn't seem, I don't know, afraid to come here and discuss this very important thing in this councilroom?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u120	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. Yes, and, of course, we have this in common with our therapy. I want to believe that. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson, president of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, who I expect to get this proposal, boarded up sleeves and puts the committee's meeting to go through this and try to extract it from a committee with solidarity. I notice, too, and she passed by. A senator has arrived with two members of the Superficial Party who have declared support and at least one member of the Independence Party has also declared support. I noticed why. Þórðarson He spent most of his time discussing some of the ideas of the city of Reykjavík's Power Office about starting a foreign society and then hearing how it was. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson carried it back, and the mayor's greater part is now drawing it back. I hope this is a good sign. Then he spoke up. A senator about what I saw in the news just before I got up in the hearing that the government had agreed this morning to set up a team and should represent the Ministry of Directors, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economics, as well as a government taxpayer, tax investigator and customs manager. I told you before I thought it would be better if more people came to that. What I like about this suggestion is to make proposals for June 30th. Then I can say with absolute confidence that this suggestion and discussion have already been very effective, even though it could be done better. But I'd like to say, sire President, that in the complex tax system, I feel that things take too long. It was also noted recently in the news that some frauds had defrauded 280 million because of houses that were not built. It was 2010. But this is the first time in 2016. Yeah, let's hope, me and what. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra's Árnadóttir, that the board and board of directors, rather, let their hands be out of control and out of control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u121	Mr. President. You see, I think it is very important that this is the case at the General Assembly, where the elected representatives of the nation are sitting, that these matters be handled. Of course, we all saw it here in the East when the largest protests in Iceland were because there were people who I think were completely offended after seeing a feature that discussed the connection between former prime minister and debinos as well as others at the highest level. Minister who's still in the government. That's exactly why I think it's so important because there's a breakdown in trust. The nation's trust in counselors was greatly diminished. I think it is of utmost importance that to restore the nation's trust in elected representatives to be exactly here at the Generals' scene, put together an investigation of Iceland's own communities and tax collections. I'm sure it's fine to the highest. Governments are doing something about it, too. At least my opinion is that it's the highest. counsellors seriously by wanting to do something serious that will cause them to investigate tax charges and tax cover, that is, in this case, where they are supposed to talk about it and come to the job of setting up an investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u122	V.E.G. President. The information on the government's decision this morning to appoint a group of workers from these councils, the head of state tax, the tax investigator and the customs manager are a good and good price, but as I said earlier, it would have been better for political parties to be also, although only to follow along and enter the discussion and perhaps prevent suspicion. I must not be misunderstood by anyone in the way that the government's order, this reaction this morning, reduces the fact that this council decree has to agree on a committee, not at all. I think it's important to quote what I said earlier about approval of the General Assembly from the last term to investigate the privatization of the banks in 2003 which remains, and that these Panama documents and information that we are getting on how banks were worked and have been read here today, including those. of what? paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson from the 2000 National Bank advertisements need to be researched much more. One thing is to study to go through this, as I said before, but were such an abnormally high capital transport from the country at the break of the Easter of 2008 that moved so much with the kroner gang, or what else? All of this needs to be checked because part of this study, whether a research committee or a group, is to prevent this from happening. It's very necessary, and I don't talk about it while we have our small dollar in this small economy where individual actions can be very dramatic. There are major decisions that can be made, and when you press the button, you can call it the Icelandic crown, and it's actually done that way today that they're on the buttonboard and when you press the button ◯enter to which it can move that way. So we're so fragile, even because of the low economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u123	A respectable president. I agree with someone else. Councilmen celebrating the discussion on this matter, i.e. on deportations and partnerships with the Icelanders, particularly with reference to potential tax collections. This is a very extensive case, and I'm sure it's discussed at Assembly Halls and even more than one day, as is now planned, more than one and even more than two days. I miss, however, I must say, a material discussion about the phenomenon of debinos, so - called tax paradises, or what man has often called societies on the Offlands. A respectable president. There is no disagreement in this council hall, rather than in the community, that taxing, no matter what the procedure, is completely unpleasant. Seek all ways to cut them off. We are well aware that tax profits have been carried out by developing communities in lands or jurisdiction where money can be hidden and, as a result, possibly hiding their income. However, not all African societies are for unscrupulous purposes. That is the case, and I miss that no senator has brought it up or accepted what I believe is fact and exists here on land as anywhere else. For example, I review a report, one of the many tax fraud reports so called, a report from 2003 and 2004, that the tax authorities, which assigned a group for the tax fraud report, made it clear that the so - called deportations, or deportations, might be entitled. I'm here running a few examples that I can think of as legitimate reasons for civil society and the perfunctory reasons for them. A group of people who have met and an army around the world can share a common interest, such as. requirements for one person or more people. It may be appropriate for each one to collect in one fund a collection of such things, rather than for each individual to collect them in his own way. Then there may be an option and a perfunctory way to place such demands in a single fund as a collection of funds or collected requirements and to distribute to their owners. Then it may be important that a person does not come out of legitimate rights by means of a diffusion that can often be applied. For one thing, this is why they have sometimes placed such funds in these low taxes, had their demands collected there, and then spread it into the household estates in which the demands are placed, in their respective places, and there they pay taxes to their husbands. This is one example. Another example has been in the news here. It is an example of a government firm, land induction, which in 2003 established its own insurance company in order to ensure that their possessions and defend their interests in this country; in 2003 the decision was made to establish this society. By the choice, Bermuda became considered a low tax nation. As far as I can remember, the government of Legislation at that time was one of them. A senator who is still here at a council member of the United States council and was involved in the formation of this society in Bermuda at the time. There were absolutely grammatical reasons that were behind and all legitimate. In fact, the tax authorities at the time felt that this was not unnatural and blessed that act. These are just a few examples of such legitimate funds. Also, it is legitimate to choose the countries where the taxes are low. All countries are competing for a practical environment. However, with the so - called CCs, which are frequently discussed here, it is accepted that people are not avoiding taxes in this country. It is an illegal society in which communities operate to shoot their possessions - not necessarily under taxes, I am not so sure that it is the main purpose of human society in this unsecure purpose, but it is much more a matter of substitution, of hiding ills, and thereafter the streets. I'm not necessarily sure that men are avoiding taxes as such. Of course, that may be in some cases. It is quite clear that there will never be a right thing to do, and there is an opportunity to take action against it. I'm sorry that today's debate has run into only the tax collection. Efforts are made to make it suspicious that a person is looking for a better tax environment. I also ask, What do we do here in Iceland in this regard? Aren't we trying to attract foreigners with special agreements, investment agreements, lower taxes, fictitious taxes, and so forth? During the last term, the government that was then ruling reached many of these agreements. They were at the head of those who have spoken here today against all kinds of tax gains or tax reforms, then they were at the head of such discriminatory agreements. A respectable president. So I'm going to join the council's smell proposal, so formally. There is much to learn from plotting the scope of Iceland's appearance, individual and business, to amend societies, and to identify the reason why people are going along the way to establish the so - called societies. In this respect, I agree with the understanding of the synonym. But I'd like to mention that too. A financial and business committee has put forth special effort to meet these views. During the past few days, we have received some extensive publicity from taxpayers, stakeholders, professionals in this field on this exact point, on the demation of the countries and on the arrival of Icelanders. It is not excluded that this specific report will be published by the Committee. This is still under discussion on the Economic and Business Committee. So it is not proper to argue with this conversation at the Hall that nothing is being done, that neither the government nor the members of the council are concerned. There's something else. Recently, today or this morning, news was received that the government had appointed a group to investigate this scope. This was an attempt to make it suspicious that political representatives did not represent it. The nature of these matters is so much of interest to individuals and the state that I believe at least correctly, and rejoice, that a team of professionals now appointed in this field, those responsible to discuss these matters and to know them. I believe it is proper that we encourage this group for fine works and that we here at the Council will continue to discuss these matters and the events mentioned in those committees. I have no reason to believe that this work is the only work I've ever had. A recent financial and business committee may lead to a fairly good overview of the activities of the Icelanders in nationalities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u124	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about taxes and societies. I welcome this discussion, which is due to the pre-communicative proposal and to the investigation of Iceland's African and tax collections. First I would like to say, more dignified President, that I don't feel any of the recent discussions, but, of course, tax evasion is not tolerated or tolerated. We'll discuss the proposal in our previous year. Then will I cleave unto the thing of the motion, at least first in the speech, and will discuss it according to the goals thereof. They turn to, and present at the end of the motion, the scope and impact of a business in the tax industry of Icelandic society, and likewise endeavor to establish laws against those who have misdeserved money from their fellow citizens and society of all. Thus, the purpose of the proposal is really twofold. First, weigh the scope and impact of that size on Icelandic society. Second, seek to reach out to those who have taken advantage of such tax cover and have failed to make money from such activities. It is important to keep this in mind. So I can say my mind with all my wits. Councilmen who have addressed and supported the objective of this proposal. There are a lot of good things in the council arrangement, especially those goals. Then a plan is set aside and ways to reach it. At the same time, it involves two aspects of our goals, as I read the suggestion. First, have a study of the number and activities of your enterprise and of your associates linked to Icelandic, legislators and individuals. Their actions will be arranged by a research committee according to a law that applies to such committees. The Committee should thus work to meet the first objective of the proposal, i.e. evaluating the scope and impact on Icelandic society. I don't think so, I'm quite convinced that it would be very useful and appropriate in view of that leak of data and the discussion - data leak, I'm referring to the Panama Documents and discussions, not just Iceland but international. It is well considered at the council resolution proposal how that research committee will be arranged and required of knowledge, but I think there may be an option. The management board is to review which sources, resources and possibilities of the committee. Of course, there's a lot of work that can be done, but I think it's going to have to be discussed in the Committee how to process it. I am very pleased with them in the proposal that the Committee is given a very clear time frame and intended to report it. I feel that in view of the work of the former research committees, which have actually provided excellent reports, this is an indication that we have something to learn from it. This is actually a two - fold route, and the second way in this model is to the highest. Financial and economic ministers are aimed at forming a special research group. So I read it from the suggestion that it should return to the second objective, that the research team can use the data that will be available to assess the scope and control the activities associated with Icelandic associates and may then offer suggestions for further improvement. So I must say that I support the whole mind of the proposal's objective. I think that the means to reach these goals are very logical and conclusive to reach their goals, a good part of the discussion, and what has already been done, and what is going on at the World Council Today, including what is happening in the world scene. When co-administered, the risk was increased. The Economic and Business Committee, which has already taken the initiative to attend an open meeting of the tax investigator, the governor of the tax, the head of the head of the budget, and the Sentencing Bank. There were very helpful indications, including in the form of notes followed by those meetings and suggestions for improvement. Of course, it is true that the way we are doing this is the right thing to show when demurries are new in order to get away with money, thus betraying fellow citizens and society is not, in a better way, a complete change of attitude toward such behavior because the burden on those who give taxes to the community to live up to the basics, basic services, and well - being. I have to say, though, we have to make a distinction between those partners who know how to reason and why to benefit from developing foreign societies and giving up everything within the framework of the law and documenting all the information and returning taxes as fellows should do here on land and in accordance with law. It may be, and I read the spirit of the proposal so that by compiling this dimension and evaluating it, you can make the precise distinction so that it works out for everyone. In celebration of the speech of the roost. paritaprevir Sigrimurur Sigríður Andersen earlier, who came into this distinction, I read the spirit of the proposal just like that, and that would recommend it, of course, and the proposal goes to committees and further development. But I support the whole point of the proposal, and I'd like to reiterate it, a respectable president, just as much as to allow us to appreciate it. I've considered what has been done here at the council. Since then, of course, there have been things that have been done at the hands of the tax authorities. There have been talk of CCs, which may not have been a lot of pressure, but is certainly an important step towards enrolling such partners. Information exchange agreements have been made available both in the OECD and in the northern regions and in the two-sided agreements. It has also been stated that today the government arranged for its meeting in this morning a group of employees who are supposed to go through tax collections and anti-employment activities. It will be considered as the government's Action Programme against tax collections. That's good, so everybody's on the watch. Then there must be committees working on it, since this is where I work, as I went to sleep. The Economic and Business Committee and this fine proposal goes to what? Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. We've got a task force in progress. This, of course, is a bit much and at several fronts. So it is important that the committees examine the current job and try to coordinate our actions so that we can have progressive improvements in this field. I cannot help but repeat the fact that I support the suggestion and, in particular, her goals. I think the Parliamentary proposal is a practical step into the procedures that have already been carried out. At the same time, I'm going to say that I feel that I've been a bit more balanced in this discussion, and in the past, she's become more perplexing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u125	V.E.G. President. I come up first and foremost to thank you. 5th a.m. We're out of Suðvest. Willum Þór Thor Þórsson is very supportive of this proposal for a good speech, very objectively. I think it's a good blow to be his coven, huh? paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson, has recently opposed this proposal; a positive and support of the idea set out here to appoint a committee and pass through this. Hv. A senator did fine on both sides of the proposal. In short, I want to thank him primarily for his positive attitude and support. I wondered if he and what he's doing. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, both members of the Parliament's Council of the Agency, has more support for this proposal. I ask if there are no more people who want to help that proposal get signed, that in other words, it is not just a committee for days upstairs, but that it will be processed, and this will be for a second discussion and a vote. Is it not reasonable to believe that there are more positive and effective members of the council today?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u126	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for a positive reaction to my speech. It is good to know that we agree on the main objective of the proposal and the suggestion in it. I listened to a talk. A member of the council earlier, who wholeheartedly agrees on the theme of the proposal. We can be sure that there are a lot of positive and good candidates, but I haven't made a general assessment of the support involved in the proposal. I assume he's on a positive level. I like the suggestion, and there's a line between action and goals. That's how I read the suggestion. For example, I have not heard of any of those who have spoken about the suggestion that they can do anything but support their goals and see nothing to it that it is going to stop. Commission and monitoring committee for further discussion. I think it's very useful to draw it -- I feel the spirit in the suggestion like this -- to the point where the scope is, what the effect is on Icelandic society, and the methods and sources of the committees discussed here. I believe everyone has a problem. Members of the council, wherever they stand, support this fine and good suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u127	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion very much, but I'm glad it's done, especially the goal of conclusions, i.e. To inform the scope and impact of tax activity on Icelandic society. However, as soon as I say so, I don't think we should forget that the foundation of this situation is much bigger and deeper than ever what we have here in Iceland and in general in Western communities. Sadly, the foundation of our society, its well - being, is based on the misery of others. I'm going to let me mention some of the situations I've come into contact with a project I've done. In Africa, there is a robbery of entire nations. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, J. Sigfússon's stylus did a lot of work, and she did not end well, but much of it was good. I'm going to give you an example of China's profit in Namibia's diamond mines, where money is hidden from the newly rich Chinese in China through the tax cover. Why am I saying this here in little Iceland? Yes, there is, in fact, much deeper, larger, and larger roots than what we are discussing here. I quote a paragraph on page 2, second down the paragraph, I want to read it here, by permission of the president: There are many illegal activities that affect the public, such as arms and drug trade, prostitution, and man trade, which are preserved in the world, increasing the division of wealth in the world, and in these are preserved. I'll have a moment to stay here. Now, a man may be outside the material when we talk about Iceland, but I'm just going to let myself go outside the material because the problem is that we are building our well - being on the misery of others, unfortunately. Since sala is the rapidly growing illegal industry, I think we need to deal with it here, although this council proposal has come about because of the root of the last few weeks. But I welcome this suggestion and specifically support her goals and say, as well. A senator before me, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, should also take up a discussion about our delinquency as to our legal rights. I think most people would agree that this kind of activity is abnormal on the ground. I think most people would agree that that's not a good thing. I'm glad that the proposal has arrived and that you have the opportunity to support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u128	Mr. President. I'll come up first and foremost to thank you for the excellent discussion here on this proposal of our senators in the left movement of an ◯ green supply. I thank you for the much support we've heard from members of the government side but from some point of view. Councilmen of the forward party. It's a pleasure. I think it's important that the Allied Congress discuss these matters. We will see this as we examine the world media - I follow my example. The senator who spoke before me to look only beyond our small country because there is only one breath of this matter, this is an international problem - in many places governments and Congress are taking very decisive action. This is done in different ways. Some have been appointed committees directly under the authorities who are to fight corruption. A committee has been set up to make up tax research on the taxpayer's taxes as well as others with the highest knowledge of the subject. Maybe that's what we're suggesting here; we're offering a special committee. There you can imagine gathering together those who come to know and work together and making use of the knowledge they have. Banks have been giving special research, such as in Canada. There the largest banks have stepped forward and set up internal research on their material needs. So we see how we react around the world. Each member of the North has started a special research program, whether it is the financial watch at the local level, the Office of the head, or some kind of cross-cutting committee as proposed here. It's interesting that there's even a transfer of Wikipedia, although, of course, it's not a complete source of evidence all over the place, where the government's response to the Panamas is under way. It may not say much about Iceland, except that it reports a birthday. paritaprevir Sigmurs Davíð Gunnlaugsson and city councilman Júlíus Vífill Ingvarsson. I would like to see this application in Wikipedia change, so it would be observed that the General and the government had decided to investigate these cases and go into the stitches on it. What's good about this discussion is that we're getting closer, that I think, a common understanding of the extent of the damage to the tax industry. You see, they are not only about tax losses, the views are certainly heard here in this room, they are also about the secrecy of the property that makes it possible for the owners of these societies to choose their own tax percentages, which are none of the ordinary public in this country. The secret also wonders the competitiveness of those who have such communities with others who just want to run their companies in the regular work we've agreed on in our democracies community. It is this error that is so unhealthy for society all and commercial life. I would have thought that anyone who wants a healthy business life should stay on with us doing what we can to fight the taxes. Not only will it be done in this country, but it will be done with international cooperation. But realizing the scope and impact on society is the first step. I'd like to finally, Mr. President, thank you for your time. I really hope it's a sign that we're going to take the case for granted. Board of Directors and Control Committee. I really hope that we'll be able to land this case in some way so that as a community learn from this whole thing, learn and replace the changes that make it possible for us to build a healthy business life. I think there's a lot to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u129	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity, as soon as I give an answer to the senator's speech, to celebrate this discussion, and because she has become more objective and more illuminating as she has suffered, in contrast to what sometimes wants to be here in the council hall. I, like many other members of Congress, have pondered over the past few days' conceptual use and have tried to understand the discussion. In this respect, the discussion here has been important. I have also been wondering that every tragedy or unexpected event is an opportunity. That is why I have rejoiced that today we have been considering the opportunities of the community, which is still part of the events and recent discussions. So I agree with the last word. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, says: "What can we learn? Today, negative impulses have been taken into account in order to establish societies. But I wondered, " Who was the inspiration of the Icelandic bank to direct all these Icelandic customers into forming these communities and moving money to a national country? ' There must be some additional motivation there, for where money is poor, an honest party must be needed, and it takes motivation to drag them into these areas. Does the senator agree that this is one of the things we need to learn from it? What was it that dragged the Icelandic banks there? Because that's one thing you can't repeat.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I know they don't expect me to ask them why. Senator questions, but I allow myself to interpret words of why. A senator who has a positive attitude toward this proposal may wish to support it. She'll correct me if I don't. You could say that what we've seen through the Panama Documents is a tangible manifestation of what we've read before in the General's study report, where it's being discussed, which is the course of the year. A senator mentions in his answer, i.e. The practice of taking a lot of money out of the country through societies in a wide variety of wrappings, if we can say that, as we have tangible examples, to influence bank status, to influence the credit of banks. Indeed, there were incentives. It's more tangible to see this, see the e - mails, see how things are done than to read about it in a report. Perhaps that is why even though many have heard of this activity, many have suffered a shock under this discussion. But the magnitude was great. What's so tangible, too, is that there are so many companies that don't necessarily all of them with large sums. It seems that decommissioning is not only to avoid taxpaying but also to enjoy secrecy, to enjoy the fact that the principle is not the same, not the requirement for annual accounts and information, but other factors that might be considered to be acceptable from the rules we have decided to have in our country. It's probably the catalyst for those who then decided to follow their advice and establish such deportations. But this affected the overall status of the banks as if they were fired here before a collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's ability to visualize the interaction of the present - day reactions - i.e. approved by the government this morning for a working group, which is primarily appointed by the administrations and bodies who work to enforce legislation and provide suggestions for improvement in legislation and other aspects. It is the interaction of the proposals presented here, and if I know the right to the Council's Commission and Observation Committee, to the work that has already begun on the Economic and Business Committee. I think perhaps the benefits of the discussion presented today will be that members of the Parliament will be better informed and better prepared for the suggestions that may come from the government. How can you tell? A senator will be at the best of this interaction, working in more than one field, or being united at some point in life? I welcome these suggestions in the sense that my goals are important. I agree with the main objective that we use this discussion and this work to learn from, to learn who the motivations were, what drew those who for years may have been doing honest business on this scene, and how can we change the view of the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-29-104.u132	Mr. President. The atmosphere that most of these societies were formed in not all - we have an example of these fine documents that are still forming such societies - but the atmosphere in the years before collapse was greatly shaped by the policy of government that had then been highly colored by a newly dedicated nation and discussed that Iceland would have to compete to lower taxes in order to compete with the tax sea. I think we've come a long way from that discussion, and I hope we've learned something from the collapse of the economy and the crisis that has passed over Europe and, indeed, all the Western countries where we saw this interaction happen - this vast disorganization, called the simple and system that made people feel better about going past the system, by the rules of the game - that we've seen a greater discrepancy in the Western world than we've seen in the entire 20th century. That's a terrible development. It is a terrible development to see that we are dealing with a system where the richest will always get richer, and after that this large group of people, whatever we call them, will remain, not just the poorest people, but the middle class, who remain and do not see a better time. This is an amazing subject that we should be discussing. The tax cover is a manifestation of that imbalance, for it is merely for a select group of people. Of course, if we could learn something, it would be necessary for us to have clear rules, and we need to have a common understanding that there is a place in the business world and in the community that we benefit from playing that game. I think it's on hold. The management and monitoring committee should evaluate the interaction of all possible activities. I would have chosen, as I have said in the past, that the government had gone forward clearly with its vision in these matters, what should have been done. [[The president calls.]] This might not have been necessary if an immediate attack had been made. But now I hope that this proposal for a research committee can go along with something else. [[The president calls.]] After this discussion, I'm going to let me hope that we can get along on that; I think it's very promising. Now I'm going to stop talking, Mr. President, and apologize for the time.
