ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u1	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 263, investigating a case at the Contestant Control, from Guðlaugur's pool of Þór Þórðarson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u2	A respectable president. I would like to use my speaking class to discuss the terms and working environment of midwives, the professions that all of us here owe much and much to, the profession who is the only female class in the country, and the services of women, children, and families in their most private moments. The lack of recognition of midwives'work is now so evident that it can now be said that the laity of the government has long since become screaming, and all that can be said is that the demeaning conduct of the public has taken place in the eyes of midwives. With this, money and dollars are far spent on saving the country. At a meeting of Iceland's Light Marys Association last week, independent, midwives who are involved in a frame deal with Iceland's Medical Insurance declared that they did not feel that they could serve at home in beds service would not result in significant correction of the frame contract. Their conclusion, by permission of the president, says: During the years, this contract has increased by only a few percent between the years, with the increase in 2014/2015 by 3.5%. The budget is now to be raised to this category by 1%. This increase is far below index elevations. This adds to a long - term agreement with the State last year, which allowed midwives to receive convicted dressers, such as nurses. The government was not considered a reason to negotiate with midwives, despite the 10-week strike operations of midwives in which they worked in that strike. For that work, they were not paid. They were not paid to receive children into this world and to help women with food while they were fighting for themselves. A class of midwives is a class that has the law of full strike rights, but by this act of government, they are going to court against midwives when they demanded a reward for caring for their duties and receiving children in this world, the State was actually taking the strike rights of midwives by hand. A respectable president. Again, we face challenges to the health system involving women and women involved in their service. The midwives are not a high-priority group. [[The president calls.]] What, then, is a real explanation that midwives meet with a lack of understanding for their crediter, the State, are badly paid and forced to strike without pay? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is this the most clear form of systematic gender in Icelandic society? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u3	V.E.G. President. I asked the highest. The prime minister yesterday for the purchase and interest of the elderly and the poor; whether the increase in the SALEK group agreed on would not return to them, i.e. to bring this 5.5%, to this year's 1st May, to an elevation of 6.2% since the 1st of January. I quoted a lot of debate in December with a discussion about budgets, financial contributions, and a lot of money money. And I'd like to do this once again, as a subject of this convention's talk. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar, chairman of the United States, is spoken of in the fall by Generals and Generals, including Ministers, the advice of the elderly and the desperate. It is to us in this room that we agree on what should be paid in pay for the elderly and desperate, those who have the least in society. I don't want to believe, sir, that the government groups, the forwarding party and the Independence Party, are now sticking to the fact that this 6.2% increase in pay markets will not be joining these society groups at the same time as anyone else does. Will independence and forwardees wait for this increase to January 1, 2017? I can't believe that it's not possible for the heads of states here at the General Assembly to sit down and agree to complete the labour agreement made in Iceland and is, as agreed by the SALEK Group for the year 2018/2019, which is a very good, very good job market peace. Let us also leave peace in terms of the elderly and the poor by the immediate approach of this increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u4	A respectable president. Tens of thousands of Icelanders have now signed a health - system challenge to the General for restoration, requiring that 11% of GDP flow to health. This group has given their name to the claim that the Icelandic government has malnourished the health system to the point that it is no longer too difficult to fulfill its role. That's a big claim, but I'm afraid it's true. The reason that such words can be spoken is that it is time for greater good in Iceland. We have room to improve our economy, but we did it after a crash. That is why governments have more responsibility than ever before. Since it was in the last government's capacity to protect itself against the fall of the Icelandic welfare system that did not necessarily succeed, it is an even greater responsibility for the hands of the present government to support this community service, not merely to preserve what is at hand, but to build up and strengthen. In view of this, at the same time, it is extremely difficult to look to new income companies, reduced fishing fees, and decommissioned resource taxes, and desperately lacking even up to 200 billion dollars. into the health system. It is shocking in times of good health that our health - care system is rated as it does not follow medical development, does not keep up with technology and equipment, does not maintain drug development; in other words, it does not depend on an acceptable level of service in today's society. Instead, patient parvotes are valid, people are not even exposed to life-relieving drugs if they are diagnosed after the wedding and wait for pain for years after important actions. [[The president calls.]] What an unacceptable situation the government must face! I propose that the government be called here with a timed schedule to react to this cry of the nation. The people are waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u5	A respectable president. The government renounces the cause of the economic breakdown in Iceland in 2008. The governments are on the move to rebuild the same financial system that collapsed. It is the same weak currency, the same bad insurance, the same okra, and soon the coin basket loans, the same low-cost few in the bank market, and the pension payments are not changed. Work is beginning to reinvigorate business banks with a ruling position. There is increasing corruption in the stock market and various signes. The same joystickalist maintains excessive financial costs and attracts foreign fortune - tellers to reinvigorate with money back into the Federal Bank. An Icelandic national resident is doing well, including Because of external circumstances. But the Icelandic national population is sensitive to changes in external circumstances. There is growing concern if the government's stand is to rebuild in the same form the financial system that fell.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u6	V.E.G. President. I would like to briefly comment on a synonym that was adopted by the General Assembly at the 2013 Summit. This was a ten - team action plan, which included the handling of home debt problems, building stability, and building barriers, and working on the future housing arrangements, including rent reforms. Team number 4 dealt with the highest level. The social and housing minister would order a project on the future structure of housing. Among other things, the project management was designed to suggest a new housing system with the objective of securing an active tenet and an efficient social resources for those needed. The project administration produced proposals in 2014, and since that work, there were bills, and now they are working on a welfare committee. These are four basics that all have to do with tenets in this country. Many comments have been received and most positive. As a result, we have an extensive discussion that took place in their processing. The work is fast and effective in finishing these matters so that they can be considered and elected to the Hall of Congress. As we have discussed and presented, the four bills are: A bill to fix a general apartment for smaller tenants, which includes building a total of 2,300 apartments this year and the next three years. The bill for repair of housing, which involves a huge increase in support for tenants. Thereby, family size is increased and supported. The amount of support between different habitats is being balanced so that individuals and families have real options for living. In addition, the bill is a change in the law of housing partnerships where they are being strengthened by communities and increasing civil democracy, and the bill of change of rents that involves increased rights of landlords and landlords. In the process of doing this work, the insurance policy and how we will be helped to buy a home will be taken care of. Among other things, they need to be looked into as incentives to save money and the conditions for payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u7	President. In answer to the highest. Prime Minister to ask why. paritaprevir Last night, Kristján Möller made it clear that they should not raise the wages of the elderly and the desperate to match the levels determined by the SALEK convention and sign the other day. This means that one more trip, these groups should be drawn back. Scary is the only word I have of this, especially in view of the fact that the government is largely concerned with the cost of employment by reducing the insurance bill. A respectable president. I'm not against losing my insurance fee at all. As I've said here many times before, that decrease is the most beneficial thing in small and medium-sized enterprises, so I'm glad that insurance costs get dropped. On the other hand, I am thinking about how much money the state's increase will take. We are to make the demands for employment that result in a decent salary. President. Our problem is that we're wrong here. The wealthy and the wealthy do not contribute what they can. That's what needs to be changed. You need to give up again. It was wrong to lower the fishing fees, it was wrong to eliminate the wealth tax, it was wrong to eliminate the electric tax, to name something. This is where everything needs to be reassigned, paid for, and paid for, both the workers and the others who cannot be there either because of disability or age.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u8	Mr. President. Over the past few days and months, the national bank has been severely critical. There was protests at the National Bank, East Street, for lunchtime because of the bank's sale at pay. The protest title was closed because of corruption. I'm not going to make that statement to my heart, but this only shows the anger of the people because of a number of cases that have turned to the Bank of Lands and how he is carrying out his course. In recent years, the Lands Bank has shut down another dozen branch offices in the country. The latest news on the bank of every country is that a disabled employee to 30 years of age at the Lands Bank in Smokejanestown has been laid off for financial reasons. There the bank lies low. The Land Bank planned to build new headquarters at the Harp, which would cost its taxpayers a minimum of 8 billion, but brought it ashore as a result of much criticism. I'm asking you, what exactly is the government policy regarding the Lands Bank? Can the bank just behave as he pleases? The sale now has about 30% share of the Bank of Lands. There seems to be a new privatization ahead. The Bank County has been replaced. We've been burned by a previous privatization that was suggested that things were getting worse. I don't think it's supposed to be the way the bank's rulers have conducted themselves recently in controversial matters. Governments must shape a clear tenant policy that prevents arbitrary management. The state must shape a clear policy of ownership in which the bank will be fully sacked as a community bank owned by the state and profited by society everything and is governed by society in mind, not just as a private firm with arbitrary decisions, as has been in so many cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u9	V.E.G. President. For a report on pay, income, and the work market, see the Habitat website. The report lists the standard of living and compares groups according to the lack of material advantages. The UNICEF report that several members of the Parliament have already discussed is based partly on information from this social report. For example, a report by the Habitat says that the proportion of people who lacked material benefits in Iceland fell between 2013 and 2014. In 2013 this ratio in Iceland was the fifth lowest of Europe. When a lack of employment is detected, it stands out as an exception, but a quarter of it lacks material benefits. The percentage is much lower among the unemployed, 12.5%, which is also too high. Among single parents and their children, lack of material things is more common than in other household types. At that time, the percentage was somewhat high in the subjects under 65 years of age alone, or 15.1%. What is surprising in this report is the position of older citizens, the group who especially lack material benefits. The ratio was only 2.3%. That group even comes out better than full - time workers, where the lack is slightly higher, or 3.2%. I'm not saying that every senior citizen has that very fine, not at all. Nobody in Iceland should be in want. And behind every percentage is an individual. A respectable president. The social security discussion has recently been loud. We agree that we are to take care of the smallest brother. Therefore, it is important that we rely on sound information and direct our assistance to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u10	Mr. President. We've had a lot of discussions here at the council and in the community's prime minister or social and housing minister and its introduction to the voter talks, which include: A common rented apartment, and so on. In this context, much attention has been given to the discount of building requirements. Today's lunch session included talking to Sigurðsson, president of the MND Society, but is also a plumber. He believes that if the proposed changes to the Regulation are to be made, it will be an attack on the motion - related people of Iceland. For one thing, it is to consider that the reduction in the cost of construction is worthwhile, but it is worth the ability to be able to what it means in the event that it takes place. Among other things, changes in the size required by the spinning ring of wheelchairs are said to be 2 inches [20 cm] off of their rotation radius. Air altitude, light, and balcony requirements are also cleared and less access requirements are made. That's why I'm so worried about you, i.e. the bioavailability. During the last term, the council was to negotiate and accept a new act of engineering. In the Scriptures, this was the case with the present - day ruler. Minister, Sóggis Svavarsdóttir, suggested that access be made available to all. The Parliament took an even stronger stand and said: "We're going to make sure that we're accessing everyone. A respectable president. This means that the government groups, they're going to have these bills come up, have to make some changes in humanitarian law, and bring them before the council that needs to be approved or denied. The United Nations Convention says that we are going to contribute to the participation of all people in daily life, including the rest of our lives. In this way, we reduce the likelihood that both groups will be able to live in the long - term apartments set up in the prime welfare minister. [[The president calls.]] There's no way to discuss these groups, disabled people and older citizens who need different assistance, in some butts, we're supposed to pull it all in here and discuss it in their major context. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u11	V.E.G. President. Icelandic nature has great beauty, about which all agree, and is enormously resource-rich, both to sea and to rural areas. From the resources, the nation has survived since the unsolved poles of Ingólfur Arnarson's son drove ashore and even something earlier. One is the very resource that Iceland and I have been grateful and proud of, but it is the fallwaters that, with their power, produce electricity as they flow through electrics, which have been placed in buildings far and wide across the country in the last 100 years. Our internalized language is a great deal of talk that most people have in mind, and most of it is the side of what is called visual pollution. Other pollution is reduced due to the purity of the forces and production of the electricity, i.e. The water. There are several interpolations, wind - power workers some, but sea tide and waves are largely still in the developing stages. There is something about solar battery activation, but mostly to home bridges. When it comes to exposure to sight, the lines of the atmosphere and the mollusks that hold the lines at a low degree are found, especially if mentioned, above the high ground. Earth's cord is an increasingly high - tension laws, but it is more expensive, while less maintenance costs are being used, as well as the history of ice - flogging and flogging. Service security is said to be greatly lacking because of the transport capacity of electrical lines and the high stress and age of lines on the other hand. I have heard that during most of the busy hours of hairy fishing and processing, diesel engines are being run in some places because of lack of electricity. Is this not something that might be okay if you were right? It is my opinion that the debates of fortressism are not in a good place at the General and therefore not to be considered worthy of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u12	A respectable president. I want, as more members of Congress have done, to discuss a new United Nations Children's Fund on the material deficiency of children in Iceland that was introduced last week. The results really make me think. I believe we should take these findings seriously and take a good look at the reasons for the lack and how to react. A 2014 study found that a total of 9.1% of children in Iceland aged 15 years are materially lacking, or more than 6,000 children. Of these, there are some 1,600 children who lack more than three of the good things asked. The number has doubled since 2009 at the time of the same study. In Iceland the lack of children is most likely to be missing who have parents who are in part - time jobs or who are in a lower working position, including children who are unemployed. The following are the children of parents less than 30 years of age and then the children of parents who live in rented homes. My first reaction was that it is extremely important that at the work of the welfare committee these days be given special consideration to the changes in the household system being now being carried out to the benefit of these groups. The committee will have to consider it well. I also think very much about the lack of social life in children, but the results show that 5.1% of children suffer from a lack of social life or some 3,400 children. The most common reason is that your child cannot invite friends to his home to eat or play. Social isolation of children is a serious matter. Is it caused by a lack of material things, insufficient health care, family relationships, social attitudes, or anything else? Are these the same children who cannot share in leisure activities? Regular paediatric data collection is important and we are expected to work on the well-being and guarantee the rights of this group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u13	Mr. President. In his New Year's address, the highest. The prime minister of what he had achieved in the past year and actually during his 30 months at sea and country. Prime Ministers may agree that in the last 30 months, economic prosperity and financial power have increased. There would have been something else that would have been quite remarkable in the light of practical circumstances and the government's accepting a baseless government fund. [[Up front.]] Not even an even worse government could've screwed it up. However, it should not be stated here whether such a government is usually possible. Many are skeptical about this. During his annual address, the prime minister said that what could be most challenging for us is careless and negative, and it is important to be patient and firm. It can certainly be said with the highest power. The prime minister of negativeness and carelessness are certainly not virtues. So be careful. But who are the ones to show endurance, firmness, and positiveness? I want to pray to the highest. Prime Minister to answer that question on an occasion. Is it perhaps the 6 thousand children who are experiencing a physical shortage, as shown in the new UNICEF report? Is it perhaps the older cities, more than four thousand, who live at poverty levels? Or is it disabled people and cripples who are not patient enough for prime minister? Is this people with inappropriate demands and insensitiveness toward him and his government? Or it may be more than six of you. patients awaiting action that the prime minister feels is not sufficiently firm? Or perhaps the hundreds of children and adults waiting for the diagnosis of ADHD and other disturbances? Mr. President. I can't answer these questions, only the highest. The prime minister can do this. If poor children, old people, disabled people, and desperate people, patients on waiting lists, children, and those waiting for diagnostics and appropriate services are patient and firm, can we hope that prime minister will give them some answers during his next year's talk? Who knows?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u14	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss poverty, as many others have. Parliaments in connection with a recent report by UNICEF in Iceland, which promotes a materialistic lack of children. First, I'm going to quote the words of Reverend Bjarni Karlsson, who is now studying poverty. Regarding poverty, Reverend Bjarni tells us in a website entry, by permission of a president: ▪ This situation is not a law but a stand. [...] This problem will be changed, not by administrative action, but by change of mind. As mentioned in the discussion of this report, there are about 9.1% of children in Iceland who are missing, or 6,100 children. Of course, to some extent, we can meet this challenge. Hv. paritaprevir The negative Anna Sævarsdóttir applied well to the fact that the problems of young parents and renters were great and would have worsened. In this context, we can look to the hostel bills that are now being treated at the council. We can look at local social services laws. We can look at a professional procedure. Despite all of this, it is important for people to have jobs and income. But we have it here at the scene of the legislature, it's supposed to be slow and slow. The situation described by Reverend Bjarni cannot tolerate drastic action. I'm going to agree with Father Bjarni that we need a change of mind. We're not supposed to feel that someone has to go out of town. No one should have to live in poverty. Our children suffer, and we should not let them suffer. We should not accept the comparison that poverty is less here than anywhere else. [[The president calls.]] No child should have to suffer in need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u15	There is a meeting arrangement for the discussion, and it is conducted according to 2 mg. 86. g. Congress and spending an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u16	A respectable president. It is my pleasure to move to the General Assembly for a brief report on the Paris climate summit and the agreement it reached. Many have called the agreement historically, and I believe it is safe to agree. Climate change is one of the greatest problems mankind faces. If greenhouse gas emissions cannot be controlled, there is a risk of major disturbances in earth's environment and the living conditions of future generations. After ten years, the problem will be the greatest in the future, but now it requires action. In Paris the nations agreed on an ambitious agreement that involves a new beginning, a new world scene. The message is clear, it is about changing individual and business behavior and targeted actions. The result is especially good planning in France. The Paris convention is truly historic. For the first time, all countries are expected to take action in the fight against climate change. It was unforgettable to sense the atmosphere at the Paris meeting, which developed toward an agreement and senses the change in mentality that has occurred in governments, employment, and individuals. Iceland was one of the countries that pressured ambitious goals at the end of the deal. We all have the responsibility to find solutions to this global project, and it doesn't matter whether countries are big or small, they all have and have to do their part. The objective of warming within 2°C was confirmed in the Paris convention, but it also states that further efforts must be made to maintain warming within 1.5°C. The goal of each individual government is not exactly set out yet, but the big picture is pretty much there. It is clear that the Paris Convention will require intensive efforts in Iceland to reduce emissions and increase carbon binding. Icelanders at the beginning of the last century in a better future on thermal services. I don't think any investments paid much more. There the Icelanders showed remarkable vision, and it gave us a huge advantage when it came to working against climate change. The knowledge that the Icelands have is upon us, and it is an important link to a global project. During the Paris climate convention, the president of the United States of Iceland, Mr. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, made a address while opening on the special day of the meeting. The main theme of the earth's global body temperature was the earth's potential. That's when they were holding the highest. The Minister of Foreign Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson addresses the establishment of a global cooperation site on aquifers where Iceland is in the lead, along with many powerful countries and international institutions. However, geologic temperatures were not all that Iceland had to offer in Paris. We've never had a more powerful presentation of Iceland on the part of and at the meetings of the climate agreement. Thus, the representatives of Reykjavík, New York City, firmly stated a statement made by more than 100 Icelandic companies on climate activities as well as five events held in the Norwegian lodge at the meeting. In addition to geothermal and energy, land healing and the impacts of climate change on the oceans and rivers were discussed. The Environment and Resource Ministry's application of land healing and climate was especially well attended in the barracks, and people around the world have studied his information on the website. A number of staff councils and institutions came to these presentations, negotiations, and other projects for and at the meeting as well as in its preparation. I'd like to use this opportunity and thank you to the Icelandic embassy, and especially her chairman, the Hugi Ólafsson. We sensed a lot of interest in what we're doing, and this brought me back to believe that Iceland is truly involved in an international discussion on climate change. Many people look to renewable energy here and to build it up, and this structure is exemplary. There is a demand for our knowledge of earth's heat, land healing, shipping, etc. A respectable president. The government approved and introduced to the Paris meeting a climate application program. There are 16 projects aimed at reducing emissions, increasing carbon binding, participating in international activities, and intensification. This task is added to the work being done. They bring new funding, reinforcements, and increased power into climate work. This is the first time that the Icelandic government has used particularly for a comprehensive climate - related program. The Environmental and Resource Ministry operates on the implementation of the projects and supervises their implementation. By this program, the government shows its will in action. The agreement between the Paris Convention and the interest shown in Paris on Iceland's contribution will lead to a strategy. The minister who stands here and the government as a whole wants to work in the spirit of the Paris Convention and make sure that Iceland puts its hand on a global project with ambition and fairness as a guide. The Environmental and Resource Ministry wants to work with all those involved in this relationship, partnerships, employment, rural governments, the scientific community and the public. It takes extensive cooperation with these parties to achieve our goals. I believe it is very important that the Council take care of climate issues both in discussion and in molding the legal framework. It was a pleasure for the general members of the council to attend the Paris Summit. I expect to benefit from cooperation with them and the council all. I want to quote at the end. Prime Ministers of the Son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who gave a public talk for Iceland during a summit at the beginning of the climate convention. There he stressed that the work ahead was difficult and complicated, but we needed to approach it with a positive attitude and with a sense of urgency. I'll agree with that. The government has shown this will in action by making the parish program. Granted, there is a threat to climate problems, but we must not be discouraged or discouraged. The stone age did not end because the stones had run out. We did our job on the heat system of Iceland, including the U.S. in so - called cold areas, although in advance it could not be noted that the results and benefits would be as great as we now know. I believe we can also reduce transport and employment emissions by creating new technologies. In this way we have a similar potential for an energy revolution, as was the case in a house - to - house warm operation. It strengthens and encourages seeing in many parts of society active participants in climate. Conferences on the subject are organized, and industry and rural society are concerned. Then you will have a positive attitude. The nations intend to recover wetlands on earth, which will be useful in fighting the climate problem. I am happy to work for the success achieved in Paris and hope that we can work together to meet this most important interest in Iceland and the world's population in order for us to have a place and a goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u17	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister for this report and would like to accept her gratitude to the embassy that went on our behalf to Paris because, like the minister, I believe there was a very important agreement there. But as shown in the case of the Minister, there is one thing to make a agreement and to make words on paper, but so is the whole project, and that is the big task. I've previously said that I wanted to see that the schedule was the highest. The minister mentioned in his case was more extensive. I think we're back there. We need to get on the job together. To carry out this assignment, we need to join in a cross - lattice. That's best done, I think, by leaving e.g. The way Reykjavík has taken place, with a very broad plan for its contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Reykjavíkurburg has also made a very significant agreement with over 100 companies here in the country to participate in this project. I hope it's going to develop into that state and rural society are working better together in this area so that we can achieve the best results and the State will also get more into this work with the companies. What I wanted to say, too, is that it has been quite remarkable in recent years to observe this discussion. There have been strong spokesmen who have had to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In our community for a long time, though this may seem to be a really lame attitude, thinking that people would be doing so against the wheels of professional life and would somehow be trying to stop some progress when the breath of breath is becoming evident. You see, the pollution of the environment that we ourselves are causing has a tremendous negative impact on our quality of life and will also have a very long - term negative impact on the world's economy. This is no longer something we debate about. It's just what we know, and at least we've finally reached the point where it has become widely accepted that the hand brake has to be torn down and that we'll do something real about it. It's one of the biggest economic projects in our time, and it's interesting to observe that the world over is becoming a major awakening, and the state is resorting to taxing pollution, taxing emissions. As indicated by the Economic Economics Department of the Land Bank, there seems to be a general agreement that the cost of emissions is far too low to have any effect and it is in general far less expensive to buy emissions on markets than to go into expensive investments and changes to reduce emissions. This is something that we as governments must look to. This has to bite. This needs to matter. This needs to be an influence. This requires making decisions on how to invest money in an investment system in order to reduce pollution. We haven't been there yet. This is where the government, in my opinion, has to answer how it's going to tax and lay a price on pollution in this country and make a plan there because it bites. It is also of great interest to observe that large investors around the world are developing markets to demand that companies they invest in have some plans for how they are going to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This is starting to happen here, too. Why? This is because there are huge interests at stake for us Icelanders, who largely base our economy on resource use. The fish in the sea are not just part of our economy but also part of our self - image and history. Of course, because of pollution, fishing and the fishing route are a major source of serious concern in the country. The rise in acidification is an inevitable cohesion of climate warming. If that trend continues, we will be deeply affected. Thus, in the fishing field, we are willing to handle matters, and it is vital that we seize that opportunity and join together to try to promote a reversal. I'd like to mention, too, that we will see in our time, in the decades ahead, huge changes. We will witness that small island countries will be submerged. We will witness that land will go under the sea. We're beginning to experience these changes in our own climate by changing weather patterns. A respectable president. I've previously told it in this chair that I believe that the time for some small symbolic action has passed and the time has come for us to pull through the parking brake and make radical changes in the way we live. Then there can't be any taboo. Then we have to talk like oil. Do we think that this and after meeting to pick up oil in the city of Iceland, we'll think that it's too much for us to do? We need to ask ourselves all these important questions. I expect it to be done, and I want to challenge the highest. Ministers trying to try to look at things a little more broad than merely work on a schedule with some other government advisers and rather try to expand this work and bring up a tripolitic group as well as the job and the labor movement and others who can do something so that we can achieve a greater solidarity in the community of changes that we need to make, also, so that we can try to make a long-term plan. We know that what falls in favor of this class is the short-minded political bitch that we, unfortunately, indulge in way too much. We are so rarely able to plan a longer-term plan. But by looking wide and thinking on a broad foundation, we should be able to succeed. Then, for example, we can look to the factory of Reykjavík, which I believe has preceded by a very good example using the contracts that have been made with an enterprise. A respectable president. In the end, I'm going to say we have to take some serious action. We need to look to the transportation. We need to look to the recovery of wetlands, and there are other factors we need to take on, and I think we all agree on that. However, the steps must be taken. We need to start doing something about this. We have a lot of ideas on paper. We have all kinds of words on paper. But we need to take more drastic steps in the area of taxes and other areas that may be motor in this regard. Finally, I want to say this. If only we watch the news during the last days, there is a news report in the book of Science that shows that the rise in the surface of the sea is greater than previously thought and that scientists have underestimated these increases in the surface of the sea that are attributed to global warming. It may even grow to twice as much as previously thought. This is mainly due to the melting of glaciers and the fact that water swells with temperatures and is expanding more than expected. Then there's a second report interviewing Sigríður's Kristinsdóttir, an expert at the EEA Sea and Water Force, this morning radio Channel 2 this morning. There she reviews how to deal with the natural world and goes over 300 million tons of plastic in the ocean with the resulting pollution. Thus, we are awaiting a huge environmental project if we are not going to face the fact that after a few years Earth's warming will have the impact of what I mentioned, and more plastic will be introduced into the sea by the related effects on marine life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for giving this great and important report to the General for which I believe that all of our policies and discussions should be under consideration here at council. I was one of those guys. Councilmen from this council who had the opportunity to participate in the Paris climate convention, which has been referred to by many as the most important meeting of this century. We know, the data show us conclusively, that unless specific measures are taken, the trend may be too late to reverse, i.e. Man-made warming. It was interesting to observe the discussion that took place at the time of a debate over whether warming should be at most 2°C to less than 2°C or 1.5°C, the objective of which these countries would disappear under water. However, the development of these events is so rapid that we have since seen new reports published by the United Nations that suggest that the rise of the surface of the sea was faster in the century than previously thought. Thus, the objective of the new information that we are receiving must be reevaluated constantly. One of the most interesting things in this discussion was that these countries said: "We have done nothing to make these changes, but we still look forward to the consequences of turning under water, having to take us up with a man and a mouse, and moving something else, even if we don't want to, because of the actions of others. What I was most interested in was not just a discussion of real solutions when it comes to weather, climate change, and so forth but a moral issue. What, then, is the responsibility of industrialized nations that have benefited from man - made emissions to those nations that have not benefited but who need to bear the damage? What also caught my great interest at this conference is how we involved in politics are always in the position that we are dealing with the local situation here, in our case at the Allied Council of Iceland, at the same time being making decisions on a global scale that affect everything we do, and in fact, we have little impact. Maybe that's the problem with the climate. I can agree with that as the highest. A minister said before, I think that when an agreement was reached, we all felt a tremendous deal. At the same time, of course, there are other international issues that even work against those goals. I can only mention as an example the TiSA and TTIP vacation agreements that are much in the discussion right now, for example, that are opening at a vacation store, according to the sources we have seen, through oil and gas from the United States to Europe which could increase the environmental impact of oil and gas production in the United States. It may be taking steps against what we are planning to do in the Paris climate Treaty. That's the problem. While we agree on goals, the situation remains that the world's countries support much more nonrenewable energy with official support than renewable energy. We will not succeed if decisions are constantly being made in other international places that directly counter what we pursue according to the climate convention. As we celebrate the conclusion, it is clear that this agreement does not change automatically. What I take out of this meeting, however, is that I think we've seen that there was a certain common understanding of what action is needed. The agreement can be a very important tool, such as for us politicians, but also for the common people and business, governments, institutions, and governments, to use one another the necessary means to achieve goals. This agreement should give us a chance to stop at every decision, whether it's the vacation agreements I mentioned before, the decision for new investors or what it is, and ask: Wait, is this in line with the climate goals we've been working on and supported? Or are we really working against those goals because we're doing something inside another silo? We need to get out of our Silo thinking, we need to think in the middle of the world, we need to make this as a matter of choice as we have slowly and bitingly, for example, to make sex equal to a variable that is always to be there when we make decisions. Exactly the same thing is needed with climate. However, we do not have much time to bring that thought into our minds. I'd like to use the short time I have left to mention two suggestions that I think would be good if we were to get to the General Assembly from all of us members of the Left Motion of Green. On the one hand, there is a proposal that we propose to the establishment of a climate council, a proposal that we've proposed many times over here, and we're here to establish the main issues involved in climate-related issues, i.e. The EEA, the National Weather Service, the University of Iceland, the Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, the National Institute of Economic Research, Iceland's Natural Protection Association, the Environment Department of National Health, Land Protection, the Organization, the United States of Iceland and Iceland. That we thus come on a firm schedule that will help the government to guide us in the work that is bringing such thinking into the heart of everything we do. I can see, if this case is taken up here to consider at the Generals, that we could also discuss whether or not we should improve. For example, after the arrival of the workplace, it is an important aspect of professional life that will develop a new thought in the way it copes with climate. I'd be delighted if the government took that suggestion. However, these are the goals. We have another suggestion here for carbon-free Iceland in 2050 where we suggest that all of our policy be reviewed, whether in organizational matters, transport, energy farming, manufacturing, so that we will achieve the aim of Iceland to become a non-carbon land in 2050. I'd be glad to have it for me sooner, I'd say so. If we could get together on that. There is a twofold project. Of course, reduction of emissions is another factor. This is of utmost importance. Although we are a small country in the great context, little nations can have a tremendous impact by setting matters on the agenda. We have seen many examples of the fact that small nations have taken up a program with real success in international affairs by simply setting matters up, but they also fulfill the big words. The best thing that Iceland and I can do, except, of course, to speak this internationally, is to work here on our own ground so that we can be exemplary, so that other nations can learn from us. We have a great opportunity to do that with our renewable energy. But then we must also look at more than one disposal book that involves transportation and binding, and we must also dare to look at the other release book, the joint, where the industry lives, to look at all these factors, and to remember that the atmosphere is one of the same kind, though we have two types of disposal books. Of course, it is a difficult task to achieve some agreement on such policies. We know that. But we should not be afraid to attack and talk to each other about it. The effectiveness of climate change will depend on the degree of solidarity we have achieved in meeting the goals we have already met and taking action in words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to say thank you to the highest degree. Minister for delivering this verbal report to the council. I was one of the senators who had the opportunity to attend this climate conference and to participate in the meeting of the International Assembly on the weekend earlier, where people discussed what was coming, and whether or not we would reach a conclusion. They say that the agreement in Paris is historic, and one reason is that it met 1,95 national leaders who signed an agreement to stop further climate warming. They did so because rich interests are bound to the same condition. They did so because there is an overwhelming likelihood, and there is no significant controversy among scientists that man - made carbon dioxide and other gases are continuing and resulting in warming, melting, and high sea level. We know what is here, and most of us know that human climate change is a threat to mankind's future. It was the goal of the meeting that the state of the world should agree that the warming would be within 2°C possibly and not exceed 1.5°C. Why? For one thing, high sea level, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is threatening many island countries, both in the Pacific and in the Indian Ocean. From there, residents may have to leave with you and your mouse because of this high sea level. We also look to it as a result of warming that many lakes such as North Africa are drying away, so refugees from North Africa are undoubtedly directly related to climate warming, although they are not specifically involved. Why? Because people look for other ways to live because no one lives without water. Animals fall, and we are at many fronts looking to what has happened and how. In Paris too, they agreed that there had to be a goal. But they did not necessarily agree on how to achieve it and what to do. Most know that this is a phase victory, a binding declaration of will, but there is no such thing as how to follow the agreement. It's a national thing for each nation. Also, there is nothing in this agreement to suggest the penalties of violations. There is nothing in this agreement to determine the measures we need to take to achieve this agreement. It is also remarkable that while the state makes a deal of this, as we have seen, public funds and a lot more public funds are being given to produce nonrenewable sources of energy such as oil, coal, and gas than is supported by renewable energy. Therefore, in this matter as well as many others, it is so simply that words and actions do not always go together because rich interests are drawn in different directions. Therefore, do we Icelanders really care if we are going to let our words and actions go together, or are we just going to participate in some agreement and then let our suffering be satisfied every day? I hope not. But the work of different people in Iceland needs to be shared. Politicians, officials, firms in the country, the public and all, nature protection organizations, the noses that must be involved. We all need to reach the goals we have set in this agreement. I want to make it known here that it was particularly enjoyable for us in the Icelandic embassy, or at least for me, to monitor the contribution of Icelanders in the North American cabins where representatives of the Power Institute and HS Power, came in from the Weather Service and discussed the melting of the glaciers - to follow along, listen to it, and see what other people were really surprised and interested in the strength in these matters in Iceland and what we really are capable of. There was also a debate in Paris about money. It's all gonna cost you. Money was debated as to how much to provide to support developing countries in reducing emissions. You will discuss how and what kind of strength should be given to change job structure and general energy consumption. Should Land and Forest Grow? And the funds needed to adapt to the climate change that will occur in the near future were debated. More important, since global warming and the rise in sea level, it was considered whether the developed countries owe the populations that might sink into the sea, to the level of fairness, to the extent that we have caused carbon dioxide's release to the atmosphere. It is also of interest to note that the presidents of the World Bank and the World Bank and the World Bank Pension Fund have, for example, described their view that remuneration was needed to contain carbon dioxide's emissions into the atmosphere. You may be right. Men have done so. There's been paybacks. On the other hand, we must not forget that the atmosphere does not respect borders. Hence, it is not enough that one state decides to pay, and another government will not if the current waste is continued today. Therefore, as this agreement suggests, agreement and targeted measures are needed to reduce emissions. It was also in the past, in the case of which. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, that if we have two types of climate accounting, in emissions of carbon dioxide and in general, we need to examine it as well. There is an interesting debate this morning regarding the effects of meat and milk production on climate change. There is one component that is not included in the halo of emissions we present today and the warming, either 2°C or 1°C. We're not, either, that I think, with the advising of the country in accounting and what it calls. So there are some factors that are not included in the books we use today to achieve success in these subjects or to examine them. For example, we Icelanders can ask ourselves, " How is it that not every port in Iceland is in a position for a ship to connect? ' While at sea, ships can be connected to electricity in a position that is employed individually instead of driving diesels or oil machines. There are some of these that we can look at and think about. A respectable president. I agree with those who have said that the agreement in Paris doesn't change anything automatically. This, however, gives us a common understanding of the need for action. Then it is important that in the effort of all states of agreement and decisions on how our goals are taken in the most transparent and democratic way possible, because this is simply our joint work now that we are in a position to change. This is our joint responsibility and responsibility for future generations. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u20	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Ministers are very happy for the talk, thank you for this discussion, and good talks. senators who have spoken before me. I don't want to suggest new solutions or new great inventions to save the world, because others are much better than I am, but I want to talk about mental things. I want to join somebody else here. I think it's one of the most important issues we're discussing in politics these years. We have come to a place, mankind on earth. There's a difference between a man and a woman. Mankind has come to realize that it has the perfect ability to destroy, at least Go far to destroy, this earth that has given us birth and we have lived on. Whatever science novelists fantasize about them, we may not have a spare farm somewhere that we can jump on. Looking ahead is of great importance to us. We're always talking about a short period of time. When we talk about money, we are talking about years or quarters. When we are talking about plans, we look for some decades or generations at the most. When it comes to such a big matter, the whole earth, mankind, the way it works, it's a matter of looking to centuries and thus millenniums. We must not forget that in the large context, mankind has just come to the earth, let alone our vast capacity for environmental impact. Iceland and I have a slight tendency to experience little of the impressionable. The person is small in Icelandic nature, and we are used to being able to kick the stone, and it doesn't have much to do with the pagans we stand alone. I think we're beginning to realize better and better that we're part of the whole earth. We have learned in our own society that we must act in a responsible way. That does not mean destroying the ground with abuse or excessive exposure to nature. That doesn't mean fishing so much that the fish stocks die out. We've learned this, but we think these days I'm learning to think in a larger context, i.e. not just from our fields at home or from our little country and how much we save by heating our houses with renewable energy, which is fantastic, but by learning to think of κ hal·la·lt·taʹ, that we need to share, make ours a small nation to share in a good development. What we have been able to do, e.g. In equality, we are going ahead with a good example, encouraging the world to bring about a better way. This is what we can do. This is what we're doing. It's very positive that Iceland highlights her knowledge and experience, for example. In earth's heat, but do not forget that even in the earth's heat, at times we have been inclined to go too far. We've done some work where we're going in an insurmountable way in an earthen heat. Of course we have learned from this. It is vital that we learn from it and continue to learn. A radical change of attitude is needed. We need to learn not only to think of things from conventional scales, which are often crowns and pennies and shorter periods, but also to watch other measurements; as humans have continued to measure happiness in nations, green books, sensory financial plans, etc. This is what we need to do in the big context. Let us not forget in Iceland that the effects of the climate on acidification and acidification have a major impact on our environment and our ability to live here. It's good business just for us to be around the planet in a sustainable way. There are times when we need to - I don't even remember how many earths we have to live up to today's consumption. It really doesn't matter how many ground you need, if it's more than the only one you have, it's too much, then it's not sustainable, then we're eating the milk slowly or fast and definitely sitting in a lot of trouble. Iceland's got a lot of opportunities. We're rich. We're educated. We are small and can be progressive, do things that motivate other nations. All we have to do in order to do that is stick together, not to fear, and a bit radical. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u21	President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion that I find so important, and I hope that it is the beginning of many more discussions and conversations between members of the Parliament regarding this huge lawsuit. I encourage those who have not listened to the talk as easily as possible. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter moved back to do that because it presented important things that I don't feel necessary to repeat because almost everything I would have wanted to say in my speech was revealed. I like to perceive in the discussions that have taken place at this seminary that I think, I don't think, I don't think we're cross political agreeing on what's wrong. The only thing left of us and what we have to do is create a transnational Senate committee that will work out how we will expand our vision, determine what our future course in this series of issues is. I am one of those who are always listening and observing what is happening in the world, perhaps. Little extreme am I trying hard to keep track of some strange issues that many people do not predict at home. Among the things I have observed are the effects of climate change, and today I shared a very sad picture of how Bolivia's second - largest water has gone completely. It is gone and never will come back to the life that was there. The fish are dead, and the birds that were fed in this huge water die. Some years ago, I watched a powerful documentary on the situation in Bangladesh, where schools are under the water of much of the year. Children cannot attend school and have been shocked to teach in small and medium - sized boats. Clearly, Bangladesh will go under water, so you must ask yourself: " Where are the people going? Where are the people in Bangladesh to go? Who accepts it? We're looking at a lot of migration now, but they're still going to grow. It is said that before the war in Syria, there was a harvest failure in Syria and a great drought three years in a row. We know from our experience in Iceland that people don't go from house to house to protest unless they fear the possibility of life. Those of us who have been urging protesters over the years about other things but our livelihood know that it's hard to get people out. The Gunist who began the protesting wave in Syria has now turned into some unmannerly horror that seems to be beyond the reach of its end. I was in Paris, and I attended a very interesting and pleasant conference that was a side event by the International Assembly. As a result, because it was an event with several hundred members of the council from 90 countries, members of Congress were far more prominent in this climate conference than in the past. I think it is very important that we senators take more responsibility and more authority in this case. Here we can work at the councils, and what's wonderful at the International Assembly is that you're not working out from the right, the left, or the middle, but you're working on the issues. Those two days of the International Parliament's discussion of this group were very inconsistency. Time flies very fast in a satellite age, but there's one thing I wanted to point to, and I was connected to the Icelandic lodge in Paris. A Deben lord of the guard, Deben, gave us a wonderful purpose. He is a very remarkable committee in Britain named the Committee on Climate Change, and, by permission of President, a blanced response to the giants of dunderous climate change. Independent, the European-based service to the UK Government and Parliament‡. We need something like this. This committee is free, and it contributes a decade or more to the future. We must stop thinking in terms and start thinking about the future. Finally, Mr. President, we have to disappear from thinking about a solution like climate or carbon dioxide. It's a success to make a greeting across the air that's already broken. What we can do at the council, and how vital it is to use this cross - lattice field and opportunity to talk. We are so well connected to the public in the country because we represent him. We must have the public on this journey with us in the country. We're not going to do this by hand. We do this by ensuing the people to make the changes we must make as a nation and as a world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the report she presented at the outset and all the discussion that has been conducted here. The conference in Paris and its agreement certainly marked a turning point, but it is up to all the inhabitants of this earth to carry on with the project. Environmental progress brings progress to society. Therefore, I am very pleased with the program that the government has proposed on climate issues as well as the contributions of the delegations and Icelandic Ministers in Paris. Iceland has much to share with the international community, such as in the use of renewable energy - there we have a lot of experience - the possibility of carbon binding through the recovery of ecosystems, technology progress in energy efficiency and more. But to continue having something to share, we must take pride and continue to improve. At the same time, ambitious work on climate change can reduce pollution in close environments, build up a source of resources, contribute to biodiversity, save currency, encourage improved energy efficiency, increase efficiency in business, and encourage innovation. So there are a number of factors that can go together and have to go together to achieve success. I'd like to come over to the opportunities we have to bind carbon, but the aim is to increase the cost to land healing, forestry, and the recovery of wetlands. This is a project that governments and private workers can spend on, but it needs to be done by those who use or are responsible for the country. It is important to work on these projects on a strategy and on a general view of land use, such as national forest plan, land healing, or the recovery of ecosystems. In this country, experiments have been carried out on the restoration of well - promised wetlands, but it is important that we analyze the actual size of the wetlands and where recovery is possible. In this field, it is also important to base on Icelandic research and effectiveness, although studies conducted here, suggest that the results can be extrapolated to the outside. However, it is a great simplicity, or simply a distorted fact, to argue that we can meet our climate goals solely by restoring wetlands. The prosperity of marshland certainly releases much carbon, but it also takes place greenhouse gas emissions from the desolated swamps and other countries. Wise use or protection of each area simply needs to be based on an assessment of each area according to the best knowledge and circumstances. It is also important to reduce the amount of food you eat. It's one of the projects in the parish. There, all of us can come to the point where eating is causing excessive and unnecessary carbon waste. In many cases, we want to adopt a climate - free life - style and it is good to look to older generations in terms of innovation and consumption. At the same time, it is important to examine and view such factors as agriculture, transport, and energy efficiency in the production of food. This allows for food to leave less carbon track as they are consumed closer to the site of production. It is impossible to assume that fruits produced in the tropical region leave less carbon tracks than meat produced in the surrounding area. A respectable president. The success of climates is based on wide cooperation but also on shouldering individual responsibilities and doing our part and respecting a variety of ways to achieve the same goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u23	President. I want to, like the others before me, thank you very much. Minister for reporting to us on this very important subject. As mentioned in the preceding talks, however, it is not a one - on - one project; it must be considered in the light of how this affects the climate. This is so extensive, and because of the many factors involved, all of the results of the Paris climate conference are cheering up. Let me give you three big things that were set there. It must be ensured that the temperature will be below 2oC and must be maintained within 1.5oC in the following decades. This is to be followed regularly and uplifted every five years, and the rich nations plan to place $100 billion a year in climate support for developing countries. While we may feel that this must be done, it was a great stage when the wealthy countries recognized it and acknowledged that we have used what the earth has to offer to increase our wealth. Thus, we need to look to the limitations of carbon dioxide emissions that other nations do not have the same opportunity, and this contribution to the developing nations is essential. Of course, there are some who say that change in climate is not all human activity but that it is a warm and cold time on earth and that it is likely to have done for millions of years. This does not change the fact that we have to let nature enjoy the doubt in that subject and do what we can to keep warm; warming wipes up water in Africa and increases water levels elsewhere, so countries are at risk of sinking to sea. Halldór Björnsson, a weather forecaster at Iceland's National Weather Office, set a temperature of about 1.5oC. He said, with President's permission: To put the 1.5oC in perspective, consider that global warming is already nearing 1oC. If all emissions were to be stopped immediately, however, the earth would continue to warm up for the next few decades, and eventually the warming would occur at 1,25,1.3oC, in relation to the pre - industrial revolution. So it takes a lot of effort not to exceed 1.5oC. Clearly, then, we have a large task to do. A respectable president. I also want to say, as others have noted before, that the conference such is only the beginning and the result is not a signature in April; it will probably be a magnificent ceremony that will be welcomed all over the world, but it's just the signature. The important thing is that nations do what they have written and do what they have done. [[The president calls.]] Each nation must take care of itself and be responsible for itself and then all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u24	President. Thank you for your report. Minister and fine discussion followed by her. The chapter we are now facing in climate matters in Iceland is our home-work team, i.e. working out what is left of the Paris meeting at home. I'd like to mention a few things there. First of all, Iceland has to disappear from all the oil industry plans in the Dragon Zone. Secondly, as regards the continued macroengineering of the industry, the work programme needs to be reversed. We need to put away additional materials. We need to develop a climate fund to support innovation, evolution, science, and technology in behalf of climate - related technologies because it is important that all progress and development be in the interests of the green Icelandic economy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This is where the Environment and Resource Ministry needs to be leading. That's where the lead is. The climate is being heard by the Ministry. The Environment and Resource Minister is responsible for leading stakeholders to the table. Then, first of all, I would like to mention rural society, but it has been said that the cooperation between the European Union and the Ministry of Climates is in strict minimum now when it is all about a representative from the European Union community to become a member of the 2010 Action Programme together with representatives of five advisers. It has to be encouraged that all rural areas in Iceland provide schemes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Many of the rural communities have begun such planning, and they have every reason to bring these forces and ideas together to the table. Travel services, new and powerful sectors, call for the Environment Ministry to promote policy development in reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the new and growing sectors. A respectable president. In a recent answer, the highest. Minister, to my inquiries on specific aspects of the implementation of Iceland's climate policy, the Ministry's cooperation on climate policy is also minimal. The Department of Internal Affairs has representatives in a team on reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the European Parliamentary Committee for Climate change. The Agency has a legal obligation to provide information to the EEA on emissions. A respectable president. Climate should be central to all transport decisions. There, too, we need to rely on the leading environmental and resource ministers, as well as on the other matters I've already taken care of. It was shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said that the VG party has offered two suggestions on climate matters. On the one hand, the climatic Council. That's a wise and good suggestion I know to be the highest. A minister knows and has studied as a result of increased cooperation and consultation in this category. The proposal for Iceland to become a non-carbon objector in 2050, as we have seen in the countries around us that governments are beginning to contribute as the objective of the community. That's not where we're supposed to be after boats. I'm the highest. A minister to consider that suggestion, too. Finally, I'd like to say that the group of senators who attended the Paris Climate Conference - I think there's a full reason for that group to stay in existence, and I think that there's every reason for that group to become a sort of collaborate on climate matters. If there's a group who'll be able to keep up with the discussion about this group of litigation. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee has considered and treated the parties for certain matters. But in the case of the implementation of Iceland's policy and the obvious support at the highest level. A minister needs to be held by the council, and the organized consultation and cooperation needed to be carried out between the minister and the counselgiver on that subject, I think the monopolizement to keep the strands that led up with the Iceland embassy to Paris this year and to give them the commission to be in such agreement with the minister. I have considered a number of factors that I believe can be the content of Iceland's policies as well as in the above comments that Iceland has not yet provided a plan to share in the common European aims of lowering greenhouse gas emissions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u25	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion and for your report. Environment Minister for the conference held in Paris at the end of November and the beginning of December The conclusion of the meeting was, as has been traced here in a few speeches. Councilmen, an agreement on the objective of not allowing the atmosphere to warm by more than 2 degrees Fahrenheit (2 ° C). I think I'll handle it correctly when I say that, in view of the period before the industrial revolution and until the year 2050. So it was a universal convention, and great rejoicing broke out at the meeting when this agreement was concluded. However, there was no answer to the question of how to reach this goal. In this regard, it is good to remember that 85% of the energy consumption of the entire human race has come today with oil, coal, and gas. These are the energy sources that are called nonrenewable energy sources. This rate has changed very little in recent decades. Therefore, it is a question of whether the whole world will stop using fossil fuels if you look to that ratio. It's a pleasure to see it differently in Iceland. The opposite is the case in this country, where the depth of Iceland's energy consumption has been tested by renewable energy sources. It's a pleasure, and I find it unfounded, except to keep it in this relationship when you see these figures and the facts of the matter that Iceland is not a major problem in climate matters, although there is certainly an emissions of carbon dioxide here on the land a great per head to be used as a unit to which Iceland and I like it. Of course, there are ways to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in this country, and there are great opportunities for those who are truly interested in reducing the true emissions of carbon dioxide. I believe that it is important that all forms of political Criticism, such as hatred of the private car, do not blind people to a vision of the project they are facing and the goals they agree to achieve. In fact, many of the measures taken in climates also taken by the Icelandic State and rural communities in recent years, and especially during last term, however, have been burned to this end, unfortunately, i.e. political Criticism has taken the lead. As a result, these actions have either been totally fruitless or actually made worse. Most of the procedures I have in mind are related to car owners. The Environment Ministry Office still distributes information showing that cars play a role in greenhouse gas emissions. It's all wrong, as indicated in the answer to the highest order. Environment Minister for my inquiry on such emissions in the fall. The share of automobiles in emissions of greenhouse gases in this country is less than 4%. For this reason, there is very little need for action against car owners in this picture. I would also like to mention two other failures against car owners that have been developed in the name of climate. On the one hand, the policy that during the last term was determined that the population should drive more in diesel cars than in fuel cars. Until then, most people had chosen a fuel truck over a diesel truck, and that was correct. For example, gas trucks are considered to be much less harmful to chemicals such as soot and what is called NOx, nitrous oxide. Gas cars are also much less expensive in shopping than diesel cars. However, by taxing measures against the fuel truck, the left control decided to make the sold - out trucks much higher than the diesel cars, thus contributing to the unnecessary purchase of cars to the country. Animal and more contaminated cars were the result of this crash. The second example I would like to mention is a law on the use of renewable fuel in cars set at the end of the last term in a very special way. Senators may remember and have been discussed in the media. It has led to the massive import of ridiculously expensive bio oil mixed with diesel and also the expensive and energy-free cornethanol, which I have often allowed me to call only food leftovers, in fact food, even though this is not food. The consumption of ethanol into gasoline increases waste in automobile engines and thus the import of fuel, so this law has cost Icelanders many billion in foreign currency, and there is no environmental benefit of this. On the contrary, the forest is expected to be deforestated and wetlands are being built under the related culture, resulting in less ground for human consumption. I'm not going to go into the world to be affected by food prices. In a hurry, it seems to me that we Icelanders are now burning in our cars food that could feed 100 you. ... ayear. We have ourselves under obligation to use food for about 100 yous. ... maninourcars. I have asked this question before and again, " Does this seem acceptable to people when we see a world where millions are starving? ' In the beginning, I reasoned that there were certainly opportunities in Iceland. There is an opportunity for us to reduce the emissions of carbon dioxide, which we agree is desirable, i.e. reduction of this emissions. The opportunity, for example, is where emissions are mainly being carried out, which is because of advanced land. Restored wetlands produces the most results in these substances. 72% of carbon dioxide emissions are caused by the busiest country. Only about 14% of this busiest country is being cultivated so that it can be maintained so that there are very great opportunities. It is vital that politicians recognize their role in these general issues. The role of politicians is, like, one sledgehammer. In their speech, the delegates found, not finding solutions to this problem, found new things to reduce emissions, or devices that need to be replaced. That's not the role of politicians. We are not good enough to do that. However, the role of politicians is not to confuse the discussion but to shed light on the facts, to spread the right information, and not the wrong things, as I have done before. Privates are far better able to take action in these materials by their inventions and interests. I especially mention it in terms of recovery of wetlands, but already private property, in fact, years ago, began to recover wetlands, private people with this information years ago, decades ago, in fact, in terms of emissions. I have seen reports that more private people are planning to recover wetlands in various ways. It is not surprising, then, to mention the seabed, our basic work. Since 1990, emissions of carbon dioxide from oceans have been reduced by 38%, which is in good harmony with the absolute objectives of the highest level. Environment Ministers, who were submitted and presented last year, aims for a 40% reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide from the seas. The marine road has long reached this goal. At the end, I'd like to mention an opportunity, of course, that Iceland and I should consider. Of course, if there is any possibility that the extra energy that may be available here will be given to other countries where renewable energy is not possible, we should examine it with an open mind whether it is an acceptable option to place sea cables from Iceland to other countries. However, I would like to be held accountable, not on responsibility, risk, or at the expense of taxpayers, but on personal property. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u26	A respectable president. Thank you for this discussion and the secretary's report on this very important matter. I would like to talk about the UN's world goal. No. 12 is the name of 'Earth of consumption, responsible production', and it takes several factors. In fact, all the environmental goals we set for ourselves are low if we cannot control the consumption that has gone completely out of control, the consumption of earth's inhabitants. The consumption, among other things, is the spread of vegetation, acidification of the sea, pollution of the oceans from plastics, emissions of greenhouse gases, forest destruction, water pollution, the extinction of animal species; this is just the result of the controlled flow of resources that we have here on earth. The reason for this may be largely greed, bullying, and corruption. I'll take a few examples of what we are using without ever considering the consequences of the production. Take, for example, the oil of palm oil, which is relatively inexpensive. It is widely used in cosmetics and soaps, but also in food; it is considered suitable for food as vegetable oil. But it has a powerful and negative environmental impact. Pormolium is cultured to a large extent in Malaysia and Indonesia, and I believe that it is about 80 to 90% of its production. In order to cultivate the tree as paper oil, plantations are needed and are used to restore it, an extremely sensitive and important ecosystem is needed. They're trying to control it because it's a fact that if that happens, the orangutan will no longer exist, nor will the Sumattor tigers. The animals are driven from their natural ecosystems because there is man's passage all around them. If I had a projector, I'd show you a picture of Borneo and the decay that has taken place there in the last few decades, and there's no joke. Even after no more than three years, the Smattar tiger has been destroyed. In an effort to control this, producers have tried to create some kind of certification, so that when we go and buy a product that has palm oil in it, we can see that it is more responsible. We know these signs, Fair Trade and stuff. I can give you an example of cotton, which is a raw product that causes a great deal of environmental stress. We all use cotton here. We use an enormous amount of toxic matter in cotton culture. Then you have to color the cotton, and it's the same. This is done somewhere in poor countries where environmental legislation is lacking, where work protection is lacking. This is precisely why production is less expensive. That's why we've transferred her to other countries, poorer lands. Even if we know this - the consequences exist, we can read all of this on the Internet, there have been a number of reports written - we somehow couldn't get through this problem. Perhaps because at the same time, it is fun to consume, and it is a private consumption that sustains the economy. So there's nobody out there in itself who's telling us to buy less. But that is really what we need to do. We eat too much food, we buy too much clothes, we burn too much fossil fuels, and so on. I have to say, sometimes my hands drop. Although it has been a great pleasure to have this agreement passed through in Paris, it is still necessary that we do so much better. For example, I could talk about the pineapple industry in Costa Rica and the effects of this culture on the people who live there. Harmless use of toxins, defences, and so on along the streets, which are then polluted into rivers and lakes. I remember seeing a picture of water in Mexico, where defective produce manufacturers had settled in. The water was blue because the dye went into the water and contaminated the water the farmers relied on to use in their culture. Many believe that products sold in Iceland or in Western lands are in order. Of course, it could not have been child labor, but it is not. I'm afraid that's not the case. I feel that we have to do so much more about it, and I want to encourage the government to inform and instruct consumers so that we can make conscious decisions. For example, we should buy nothing more than what is marked by the environmental sign of the Swan. Officials should only use products that are marked either the Swan or the European flower, and Fair Trade coffee should be available here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Time's up. I could have continued longer, but there will continue to be a discussion about the environment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u27	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the President for taking more time for this discussion than was originally required. This is a very important subject, and they will be no more important. There's one thing I can hardly get tired of reminding people of when it comes to saving the world from something as overwhelming as climate change, the cost of saving the world. There are a lot of people who are quite ready to give more to the poor or willing to contribute to the world's survival as long as it costs nothing, as long as we can drill and burn oil, but of course it's not about reality. The reality is, after all I know and all I've noticed, that human climate change is turning away and there's nothing we can get away from. We can only make them a little better than they can be. In this context, it is important that we take a firm stand in Iceland that we are not going to win the oil in the Dragon Zone. I think it's obvious. I have noticed in this discussion, especially for about a year or two, even longer, that the position not to work the oil for some environmental reason has been considered to be a bit of a child, not enough to be so far, which is nonsense in my opinion, a respectable president, a complete nonsense. We're not supposed to win this oil. The scientific community has called warning bells and the environment itself. It's come to a point where I think no one should doubt any more, although I am in the nature of my skeptic. The facts speak for themselves, and the situation has become clearer than we should find convenient. The ways to live either by these changes and to reduce them to the best of their ability are multiple. There's no one way to figure this out. There are many of them. It involves new energy sources, preferably renewables, but of course others that do not release carbon dioxide while we are finding even better sources of energy. This is a long-term project. In the decades that follow, there is no need for much technological advancement and the end, but we also need to continue to do so. Then I'd like to mention one thing on the final ticket, which is that I feel that the private market will fix this problem or somehow reduce it. This is one of the problems we face as a species - no, as a planet. The intention of capitalists to solve this problem without the introduction of politicians and to make decisions for others seems to me to feel that I find a different idea, a respectable president, with absolute respect for everyone with that view. I remember the ozone layer. It wasn't fixed by privates. It was adapted by political decisions made by international politicians. That's how it was fixed. There is nothing that we can fail to care for in this group of subjects. I repeat, it won't be without pain. Let us not expect that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u28	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for reporting a report on the Paris meeting. There was a signed agreement between many countries, and its objective is to keep warm within two degrees. At the same time, the aim is for global warming to reach a temperature of less than one and a half. The problem is complex and requires solutions where the benefits are visible. Most of us don't know what we can do in everyday life to deal with the problem and attach fingers to where the most negative environmental influences are. The task ahead is to link comprehensive climate issues to society so that all can do their part and make the benefits visible and understandable. Although we have great knowledge in certain areas, as many members of the council have mentioned before, and many countries envy our renewed energy, many of them are inundated knowledge of the quantity of waste in our chain of value. There are many positive opportunities that can be created to achieve a goal and meet an agreement on climate. For consumers, the benefits of making informed decisions are based on better information. It's, for example. not obvious for the overall pollution of one car. It is relatively obvious that there is emissions during the period of management, but it is not during the manufacturing time or how much the car can be replaced. This might be related to changing carbon atoms. Technology, along with its increased demand, drives forward. For example, consider the fast - approaching technology of information technology and identify the main environmental impacts in the particular product, manufacturing or services. This type of analysis is especially a source of extraordinary incentive for the job and for individual enterprises that can lead to competitive identification and a more precise assessment of environmental impacts and carbon tracks. Greenhouse gas emissions, where they are most in the high chain of value, can be located and managed by a new mechanism or new technologies to minimise environmental impacts and waste. For example, consumers might make informed decisions and compare carbon - based food with food from abroad and have traveled long distances. As we know, 195 countries are united in coping with the danger limits we have already seen. The goals have been set forth and challenges to find the route or routes and can vary according to countries, countries, and territories. The world's countries are increasingly looking for sustainable energy solutions and investors show innovation in this field more belief. To achieve success, all must do their part and progress can be made to respond rapidly to climate. Icelandic people have a lot of knowledge to produce new technologies and generate energy from renewable energy sources, but there is a gradual demand for education and media. We need better and more accurate information that will shed light on how much resources are wasted so that waste can be maintained in most areas. The environmental impact of the production and other options needs to be considered. It would be closer to mention garbage, but trash and waste are not the same. Waste is valuable, but waste is what cannot be used from the trash. One of China's richest women collects garbage, recycles it, and sells it. I am now going to go in my talk briefly over a few points in the parish program at the highest level. The minister and the government introduced before the New Year's Eve, which is three years old and part of Iceland's implementation to achieve their goal. The role of the State is to encourage development and development and professional decision making. A minister has set out 16 ambitious, realistic tasks that are being implemented and will produce less carbon - related emissions than would have been unchanged. The project is varied and provides a range for most who want to act. But change of mind is needed. For the first time, a project for three years is being started to link different parties together, encouraging broad consultations toward sustainability. We all have natural opportunities to cover the environment and establish sustainable society. There lies one of my main interests, transport energy exchange, and electrical infrastructure. Governments have set a good goal for cars, or the share of renewable energy in transport, to have reached 10% by 2020. I think this is where we need to look at our cousin in Norway who's been very successful. I think the figures for 2015 are that they bought a new 25-year-old in that country. electric cars. We need to strengthen the infrastructure of electrical vehicles and, as mentioned here in the discussion, for ships, for cruise ships as well as for others in the country, so that they can use green and renewable electricity instead of walking on fossil fuels, at least not when they're ashore. I'd like to mention one of the things I do for a member of the Parliamentate Committee. We're now setting up a battery station on the Capitol. I have strong faith that it will be well new. This programme also includes environmental agriculture, forestry growth, wetlands recovery programme, and food waste reduction as it has been established. Iceland has to be an active international advocate of climate. I'd also like to mention cooperation in the North East and involvement and the green climate fund. I have very little more time to jump at the end of my talk. Iceland is a small island and we're all living on nature, land and sea. We have to respect that, and probably Iceland will have more than many other countries. So I think Iceland should have the priority to monitor the progress of a contract as signed in Paris. It is not enough that the proportion of countries should be properly fixed but that the use of greenhouse gases and the binding of carbons, e.g. with the recovery of wetlands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u29	A respectable president. We don't have another place, would we? paritaprevir Óttarr Proppé. I think he hit the whole nail on his head. We don't have a reserve. Therefore, we need to take good care of the earth we live in. This has been discussed, and more than one entered it, what a fairy tale it was, if so may be said, in Paris and at that Paris meeting. I'd like to add that I feel like I'm having a conversation today. It was an historic assembly. We have been here for an hour and a half in the Middle East, one of the hottest cases of our day, both in Iceland and in foreign fields. Things that involve the world's economic affairs, issues that are natural foreign issues as well as those we do here under the hat of the environment. It tells me that the environment is becoming the issues that concern most people, the public, the business and the world. Many fine talks have also shown that to achieve the most effective results in this area, such as in most parts of the world. It's like a password. Truly, I agree with that. I would like to point out that the opening talk pointed out and referred to articles in Science and Other Mediaes. With the permission of the president, I would like to show one of the openings in the Morning Press today. There are three news reports, and they all turn to climates, such as: Acute weather conditions may change. This will give you a plan on how to increase the use of electricity in fishing vessels. And a very interesting award about it was given in the Hnakkathon of the University of Reykjavík yesterday. Another factor that is not good and that also touches us that new plant bacteria have been identified by the import of roses from the Netherlands. So there are many things that we have to plan for. I believe this has shown great success in the Paris conference. People are beginning to think differently, and the General Assembly of Iceland is beginning to feel differently. We saw this clearly in the discussion that took place here today. I'm particularly happy that many senators made excellent suggestions, ideas that could be developed so that we could do better. That is exactly what we have set up for ourselves in the Environmental and Resource Ministry, i.e. The width, and contacting as many people as possible. As early as this recent year, I have called me, in fact, not quite finished, the heads of all the anti-continental groups at the General Assembly to discuss with them, especially the climate issues and the environment in general, how we can work together so that we can be successful. I think the ideas we put out in this so-called application program are very good suggestions. It's not the end of everything, the suggestions, but it's only a month since the conference ended in Paris. We are naturally working hard to prepare them and meet members, rural communities, and many of the agencies mentioned here today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I still want to thank you again for this excellent discussion and excellent ideas in many of the people that came out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party for what it is. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. The nominee has a new proposal, and it has a bill to correct the legislation of Iceland's national flag and national shielding laws, law No. 34/144, with subsequent changes, involving the use of the flag in the marketing of goods and services. The case is on the subject. 629 and No. 156. The committee has discussed the matter and has received a meeting for Ágúst Geir Aðalsteinsson from the Ministry of Presidency, the Hörður son of Jóhannesson from the Police in the capital area, Halldór Árnason of the Associations of Employment, Björg Árður Héðinsdóttir Þórðardóttir Sveinn Þónhððið Júlíus Árnadóttir, María Andrésdóttir Kógri Hjálmarsdóttir Sigfúsdóttir Kóðri Kóðri Kólaðri Kógri Kógnar Kógir Kógir Kógir Kógir Kógir Kóðiððið Kógnarfiððiððiððiððnarfiðfiððiððiððiððiððið Kóðaðaðaðaðaðiðkurðið Kógnar Kógnar Kógnar Kógnarfið Kógnar Kæðið Kæðið Kógnar Kógnar Kógið Kæ Kæðiððiðið Kæðið Kæðið Kógnarfiðkurðiððið Kæðiððiððiððiððiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðkiðkiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðiðið There was reviews from the European Union of the Boy Scouts, the Personal Displacements, the Society of Professionals, the Iceland Office, the International Police, the Food Institute, the Neythal Institute, the Neighbours Association, the Communication of Industrial Parks, and the Society of Industrial Science. The bill suggests that the National flag of Iceland must be used in the marketing of goods and services without any special permission, as the source or function of the flag, and not disrespect to its flag, but according to local law, the permission of the Presidency needs to be granted to the use of the flag for this purpose. The bottom line of the matter is that by 1998 law, there were approved changes in the licenses of Iceland's National Resources and State Shields where Prime Ministers were authorized to grant permission to use the flag in a branding or selling product, a package for or advertising of product or services, and that would result in quality as required by the Ministry in the Regulation and the flag not to be offended. The objective of the change was to increase the freedom to use the flag with a specific reference to the marketing of Icelandic production. The protocol has never been set, including Because of the difficulty in setting quality standards for goods. Many conferences have been proposed by members and prime ministers with the objective of making room for and clarifying the rules for the use of the flag during the marketing of goods and services. At the 143th legislature, the General Assembly agreed to refer this bill to the government for further consideration and presented the prime minister for a 144th noncommittal body that has not been completed and is now unregistered. The report discussed the changes proposed in the bill on Article 12. The law, the usage of terms in the bill and the conditions proposed to be fundamental in the use of the national flag at launch of product and service and monitoring of the procedure. Then there's a code in the bill where this change in 4 mg is proposed. Section 12. The law allows the general flag to be used, as it were 2 mg. the article, or the sale product package, or product or service advertisement, is a product or the activity of the one involved in Icelandic origin and the flag is not an object of disrespect. Two. Section 12. It is decreed that the flag is forbidden to be used as the personal symbol of individuals, associates or institutions, or identification marks of the entrances, collection marks, or any of the like. This adds up to the final 4 mg. Section 12. The rules require the flag not to be used in the company logo. This arrangement is not proposed to be altered. The majority feel that with a reference to clarity, it is correct that the entire prohibition will be given in 2 mg. Section 12. That's the law. Making a change to that. As shown in a bill report, it has been a barrier to achieve general quality standards when it comes to securing the use of the flag. The bill suggests that no special permission of the Ministry is required to use the general public flag during the marketing of goods or services as a product or the work of the Icelandic source and the flag is not an object of disrespect. For the Committee, there was a hint from the private room on the subject matter of Article 2 above. the bill is the term "mark's" to be used for the 1st paragraph but a ◯ label to the 3rd, 4th and 6th verses and that the Agency considers the harmony to be appropriate to use the term ◯marks to the directive. In the treatment of the case at previous councils, Iceland's firm has applied its authority to the use of the national flag in foreign cooperation projects, such as the signal of a joint tour program marked with the national flag of participating countries. The majority believe that by using the word instead of a brand, it covers such cooperation between countries. However, the majority of the changes must be interpreted according to 2 mg. Section 12. The law to forbid the flag to be used as the personal symbol of individuals, associates or institutions, or identification marks of access, collection marks, or any of the like. Comments by the bill show that with the change the law's license to use the flag in badges will also include so - called codices, as the law No. 155/2002. The majority of the coherence requires that no change in regulations 2mg is being proposed. Section 12. The law, including the flag uses the flag in company badges. In addition, a greater proportion suggests that instead of the words '-Environmental author's ◯ in the 5th language paragraphs'2kr. The bill will be used in the terms ◯isliks, where the authors say that ideas can be too narrow to define. When conditions for the use of the flag are met, the Committee discussed the requirements set out in the bill and that they will be put to the basic use of the flag into signals, on sale, on the package or on the marketing of goods and services. The bill suggests that the main requirement for avoiding Iceland is that it should be created on land and that it comes from domestic materials. The Court's opinion was that the wording of ◯ given as a fairly evaluable position, but the majority of the expansive points point to the fact that more of the raw materials need to be minimally integrated in order to meet the criteria. The Commission also suggested that there is another way to define the origin of the bill in the existing EU. The bill shows that the view behind the rules for the use of the Icelandic flag for marketing is basically different from that of the source. For example, if the principles of origin were to be laid down, it would also be allowed to represent Icelandic products produced abroad by the Icelandic flag. However, it is clear that the difference is not clear enough. The majority feel that to explain this difference, it is appropriate to suggest that the writing of the origin to be eliminated from the 2nd sector. The bill remains a protection requirement for Iceland. It was as if I came along in my opinion, though, something earlier was dealing with quality standards and standards. In the original bill submitted to the 143th legislature, it was said that a product must be produced here according to Icelandic tradition or for up to 50 years. Then there was a time reduction in the bill under consideration for 30 years. However, the article also provides some specific guidelines for when the flag may be considered Icelandic in the sense of the law so that it should be marked with the national flag. The first rule includes a product produced in this country for at least 30 years under the same brand, although largely or whole from imported raw materials, it is considered to be Icelandic. The same value for food produced in the United States is according to Icelandic tradition. The Committee expressed the same views as the treatment of the case at the last legislation that the conditions for 30 years could be too strict, since products rarely had such a long life span and it was nearly 10 to 15 years away. Thus, this has developed from 50 years to 30 and, ultimately, the change here to take place at the U.S.A., and the view that the rule could be designed to counteract the natural development that would have to occur, especially since the life span of products and especially the market foods would be limited. The majority agree with that viewpoint and suggest a 15 - year change in the arrangement. The bill suggests that a secretary who conducts a consumer case will be authorised by a regulations to set the conditions for the use of the flag according to the requirements. The Committee held the view that the Netostry, under the bill, was to provide additional guidelines for the use of the flag. The majority feel that it is normal for the consumer minister to be assigned to set the monitoring rules, but it is reasonable to consider that the Netostry will be consulted with the exporting process. The majority also believe that it is necessary that the Regulation should further investigate the requirements for such markings, i.e. whether to conform, e.g. how to use, how large the flag may be, and whether to surround the product or to have the specific size ratio with the particular package or product. The majority of them feel normal that these aspects will be further developed by Regulation and in this context consult Iceland's Council of Directors at that level. Regarding the surveillance and role of the Navigator Lab, it is suggested that the Neighbour Room grant permission for the use of the flag in a branding name. According to the product code, the product code should be recorded in the private room. With reference to this, the committee feels that it is more clearly included in the arrangement and suggests that the words in the private room will be added. The rest of the part highlights that the Nettorial Lab thus consults with the private secret office in preparing a license party for the use of the flag in a branding symbol so that the services provided by the institutions will be the best. The bill suggests that the use of the general flag, in the sense of product use, will be assigned to the Navigator Office and proposed to handle the consumers' case, resources and treatments due to violations of the regulations and to the lawsuits' rights to the consumer appeal committees in all respects according to the regulations of business practices and market surveillance. The Commission suggested that the use of the badge should be covered by the Neytend Office. According to Article 12. a The law is documented as the identity of the government and therefore the use of one authority. So the majority feel that it is right for the Ministry to look at the rightness of moving that part of the police surveillance from the authorities to the Netosphere Office. The result is that the greater part believes that if the bill becomes possible, the law can better identify Icelandic products' unique status and facilitates Icelandic products and services markets. This may provide a fine addition to the work already being done on the market of Icelandic goods and services. The majority believe that according to consumer views it is necessary for the Ministry to monitor how the use of flag markings will develop, including in connection with other markings that point to the flag, and if necessary make adjustments. The greater part highlights the importance of being unappreciative and to associate with the flag as yet. The majority of the items are considered necessary in addition to the above changes proposals to also provide technical adjustments to 2.g. The bill, which is designed to enhance clarity and, in addition, to improve the law. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted with the following adjustment I'm going to read here, a respectable president. 1st We're on 1st. Instead of the words "smbr." 7 mg, though. Step 12, come in: sr. Ten mg, though. Section 12. 2. We're on 2. a. A team 2. Put it this way: The following changes will occur in Article 12. The law: a. At 2nd. a new sentence is added, as follows: The flag in the company logo is unauthorized. b. Instead of 3 and 4 mg. If there are five new paragraphs, as follows: It is permitted to use the common flag in a sign, dr. However, 2 Peter 3: 1 - 3. mg, or on goods, the package or the advertisement of product or service is product or functions of the Icelandic flag and does not treat the flag with disrespect. A product counts as an Icelandic if it is: a. produced here in a country from national materials to a state of origin, b. produced on land at least 15 years under the same brand even though it is produced from large or whole imports; the same applies to food produced here in Iceland according to Icelandic tradition. A design product is Icelandic if it is designed by an Icelandic source, although it is produced from abroad from foreign materials, it is not a substance that is a physical substance that has a unique origin, characteristics, or qualities. Ideas are Icelandic if they are written or created by an Icelandic person. The consumer room grants permission for the use of the flag in a flag to be registered in the private room. b. Instead of the words ◯skv. Twenty-two-six. mg/kg; 1 mg/kg. B-joins, come in. mg This is how the committee's opinion reads, and the following is signed. Councilmen: Amongur, son of Jónasson, chairman of the Board of Command and Control, Willum Þór Þórsson, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Straess Níelsson, Hjörvar, and in advance, Fanný Gunnarsdóttir, Arnardóttir Lára Eagledótir, and Árni Páll the Árnason of Aranna, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u31	President. This is not the first time that a bill of this kind is discussed here at the council. I have attended several members of a committee discussing this matter. I'll say as it is, it seems to me that the bill is making progress every time it's submitted because the conditions and rules on it become wider and more human and closer to modern times and real. It's supposed to be a celebration. Perhaps I should hope that there will be one more effort that will improve. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Did not a member of the Committee simply allow producers who produce Icelandic products to use the flag and then be monitored for any mismanagement or abuse of this authority rather than making all these rules? I still think that this is where custody is concerned. It has improved since five, six, seven years ago, certainly. But didn't anyone think of trusting companies just to use the flag but that someone would monitor how it would be used?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for her question, as to whether she had not been allowed to increase her freedom in this subject as soon as we allow the flag to be used and home. The views were made clear in the committee, and I am in a relative favor with the way Danir goes. If an Icelandic company operates under the Icelandic social security number and produces a product on the land, the company can allow the company to use the flag in the advertisement of products and services. It's very simple. It's all for the same well, all we have to do is respect the flag. The surveillance will help. However, there are conflicting views on this subject, and I merely traced the background of the issue of the committee. Many have tried to meet the demands of employment to use the flag in order to market goods and services, in order to highlight the uniqueness and peculiarness of Icelandic production in competition. It hasn't worked. That is why, from the 143th legislature that I have participated in the Committee's work, there was a way of compromise to try to get it out. We'll just have to wait and see how it works. Hopefully, then, we will be able to increase the freedom of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u33	President. Looks like we were. A senator would agree on this. I have often given up on my own use of Dana's national flag and how they use it. Maybe it's naive of me to assume that people are treating their national flag with respect. I would have assumed, then, that if the flag was used by a general authority, it would be kept under control, and if someone were to use it in an inappropriate way, some sloth would enter. Sounds like you're doing what you're talking about. A senator would agree in this regard. As you'll see. A senator of the case is always taking the edge off. The bill has certainly improved. [[Up front.]] So far, I haven't been able to support what has been laid down. This is not a matter of vital importance, but you must wonder, " What are we going to do? ' Shall I vote with this or against? That's better. But could it not be that if you fail to take the whole step, the issue of this Regulation will become a key issue? That's exactly what I'm against this, that's the regulations and the legal process around this case. We are to trust Icelandic producers to use the Icelandic flag without disrespecting it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for her second question about the risk of whether or not we're being legally bound by these conditions. Of course, you're right. You're right. A senator would point it out. At times, however, it may be better to step gently to the earth to achieve something. A consumer's idea is that the consumer can always decide as an Icelandic product. This brings us to what we have both experienced, me and the other. A senator, in a discussion of the Commission's discussion and with stakeholders: What is Icelandic? As soon as we're talking about at some point, or we're starting to set a time, as shown in the bill. I say, we have to wait and see how the job life will handle this and how this warrant will be used. For example, I can mention how gardeners used the flag band. They do so in a tasteful way, and they have handled it very well. Hopefully, this bill will be done, and it will be done, so that the Icelandic company and professional life can take advantage of the flag in the marketing of goods and services as soon as they are shown the respect they deserve. That's why I support this bill all the way. We can then increase our freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u35	President. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct the change of organizational law, No. 123/2010, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh... The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives from the Environment and Resource Ministry, from the Organization, the Union of Iceland, from Mosfellstown, but also received reviews from several other rural communities. The bill suggests changes to 13 and 44. Organization No. 123/2010, but the changes depend on the conditions that the permit holder can issue a building or implementation permit without a approved sharing structure provided that the relevant procedure is in accordance with the main structure and land use, the structure and density of the community, and the exception of nearby culture. In the case of a negligible change in shared planning, close-up should take place unless the change is so negligible that neighbor interests are not affected by land use, view, shade, or vision. In such cases, a local government may allow the release of a local presentation. This is a law that should be interpreted narrowly. The aim of the changes proposed in the bill is that rural society can provide permission for individual projects, including areas outside of urban areas without sharing, but rural areas have not been established and are not needed. The obligation to diffusion in terms of the bill's terms includes unnecessary costs for rural society. The committee considers these changes to be positive and to simplify and maintain costs of rural administration in moderation. The handling of the case for the Commission made comments on both the regulations of the bill. We are 1st. par., change 5 mg. 13th par. The law stated that, on the one hand, it would be appropriate to separate the approval of a landowner prior to the issue of implementation, and that in the case of implementation of the European Commission, only the implementation of a major organisation could be permitted, thereby releasing the requirements for land use, built-up patterns and density based. This committee points out that there is a prerequisite for the implementation of an executive or owner's agreement and that there is no need to make such a special statement. In this case, it is not excluded that projects requiring implementation may be dependent on factors such as structural patterns and density based. The committee then feels that 5 mg is unclear. 13th par. The laws also require granting a license without sharing structure if the project is made and discussed in detail in the main structure. So the committee does not consider why we should respond to the above comments with a suggestion for a change in the bill. The committee also noted that vague expressions 2 and 3. 43. g. The law would give grounds for two interpretations. One for 3 mg. 43. g. disembarking the planning of a building permit when there is a very small variation that would not allow for a change in shared planning terms. In such cases, it would be permitted to compromise the demands of 2 mg. the change in organization and local presentation. However, the Law could also be interpreted as a way to make changes in the organization of the people in the area, but it would still have to be changed. Despite the fact that the bill does not indicate a change to 43rd. In the light of her discussion, the committee believes to respond to the above comments, including where the comments are based on rules relating to the introduction and 2rd paragraph. The bill is about when it is permitted to grant a building or construction permit without a shared structure and after a local presentation. The committee noted that in a comment we made in a paper with a bill that became the law of No. 123/2010, please see 3 mg. It is authorized to dissociate from demands for a negligible change in shared planning when there is negligible variation so that neighbor interests are not impaired and, in such cases, there is no need for a local presentation. The above comments in the declarations are not fully defined by the Committee as to whether this includes a warrant for the absence of shared change and in the presence or in the vicinity of the report. Article 5,8.4 of the Organizational Order, No. 90/ 2013, however, it is permitted to deviate from both sharing organization and local presentation on implementation of projections and architecture in the absence of negligible variation from sharing systems and neighbors'interests. Therefore, the regulations of the Regulation are based on this interpretation of 3mg. 43. g. The law that it includes an exception from both the change in sharing structure and the local presentation and that the Regulation has been an object of national legislation under the circumstances specified in it. The Commission sought the Environment and Resource Department's opinion on the matter and then concludes that it is appropriate to suggest a change of 3 mg. 43. g. The law so that the wording of the law will be unequivocal in this respect. The committee suggests that the bill will be adopted with a so - called change: After 1st. A new article, as follows: 3 mg 43. g. The law says: During the publication of a construction or building permit, a rural government can authorize a compromise on the demand of 2 mg. for the change in division and local presentation when there is such a negligible variation that neighbor's interests are not affected by land use, view, shade, or vision. Hv. paritaprevir Birgir an Ármannsson and what. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir had been absent at the hearing, but under the opinion of the writer of this article, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, the chairman of the case, the case. paritaprevir Þórhallsson, chairman of Environment and Transport Committee, eh? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. paritaprevir Einarsson, come on. paritaprevir Elín-Hirst, w-w. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall and what? paritaprevir Will Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u36	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee on Environment and Transportation for billing a third-generation call, No. 8/2005. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Veru Sveinbjörnsdóttir's daughter from Internal Affairs and Björn Geirsson and Þorleifur, son of Jónasson, from the Post and Communications Department. Then came the committee three reviews of the case from IC Iceland ehf., Nova and the Post and Communications Office. The bill is suggesting that a third - generation cell phone be removed. These laws require the inclusion of a set number of times to operate cell phone grids and indicate minimal expansion. It also includes terms of rate charge and invitations to be distributed. The law is restricted to a third generation cell phone, so there are frequencies recommended in the law reserved for that technology. Since the administration of the law, there has been much progress in cell - phone technology, and four - generation cell - phone technology has become more pronounced. The objective and objective of the bill with a third-generation termination of cell phones is to make the technicality of the region of the EEA to meet the international commitments and needs of the market. By rendering the frequency range technically neutral, different mobile telephone techniques, 2G, 3G or 4G can also be used over the same transmission. By deportation of the law, it will be the norm of communication, by the law of No. 81/2003, as well as regulations in Regulation No. 1047/2011, about the organization and distribution of frequent communication, applies to the distribution of the times that are now under the proposed laws. This includes the use of tenders that can be used instead of invitations when frequent arrangements are made and supplies will not be needed for minimal exposure that has already been achieved. Comments on the effects of these laws and the effects of removing them will be discussed in detail in the bill. It is generally agreed on the subject of the bill and in comments to the bill that we consult the email and communications agency, for the future efficiency of the burn frequency for next generation Farnet services, including a 2100 MHz rate, which falls under law No. 8/2005, it shows that all stakeholders agreed that nothing objected to cancel the law and most stakeholders would apply for free rates in the field below. provisional regulations require that the frequencies issued on the grounds of the law maintain their values until the end of the source time, or on March 30, 2022. In this way, legal terms and regulations from the sources will keep their place during that time, including the distribution of the ministry. The committee and I suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Though the Birgir son of Ármannsson and Áa Guðrún Helgadóttir were absent at the hearing, under this publication, the prefect of Director Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Holley of Þórhallsson, chairman of the Committee, Haraldur Svavarsdóttir Einarsson, Elín Hirst, Savavarsdótir, Róbert Marshall, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason, why. Environment and Transport Committee members.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u37	President. We continue a discussion on bill to correct a change in the law on liquor and tobacco trade. This discussion has been held for some time, not just in Parliaments, but as much in the community. What I have a limited period of time ends with my second talk in 1st. To discuss, I intend mainly to dwell on the fact that has actually been discussed in 1 Corinthians. and is not small, putting on a bill that is, in fact, one of the major issues of the Independence Party, at the highest level. The secretary of the budget and the head of the Independence Party under discussion on the Prime Minister's policy and set in the foreground of the political course at the beginning of this council, conflicted with the Ministry of Health in Alcohol and Drug Defense. In order for governments to present cases that contradict or to cross the available policy of the case, there is a considerable need. Now the board of directors doesn't agree on the matter. It's been made up of a lot of cases here. Prosecutors say they are opposed to the case, but it appears that most of the Party of Independence are thus being met. I'd like to do this short talk, for this reason, to spend most of my time at the first head of the approved government policy on alcohol and alcohol abuse. This policy was adopted in December 2013, signed in the Ministry of Health and supported by the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. The first goal is, by permission of the President: ▪ The most important step in reducing harmful effects and problems with alcohol and other drug abuse is to limit bioavailability. This includes measures for the sale of alcohol, effective monitoring of the use of prescription materials, intensive law enforcement and effective toll monitoring. President. This is one of the superintendents of six of the current government policy, and I think it's safe to claim more part of the council. V.E.G. A health minister is also a member of the Independence Party and has not shown whether he supports a forward bill and has thereby reevaluated his support of existing public policies on alcohol and alcohol abuse, or whether he is opposed to the case, despite the attention of an independent party leader, the Supreme Court. Financial and economic ministers. I'd also like to mention here the review of the bill from the Institute for Children's Health and Family Protection. Now that we are getting new numbers and information on the number of missing children, there has been a significant increase in the number of children between 2009 and 2011. I urge the General to think especially of the children who live with alcoholic beverages in their home. I'm here to quote a research agency in child protection and family protection, by permission of a president: Since then, national threat - and still - has resulted in such an effect in our society. [[The president calls.]] Logistic support for this bill reflects values and interests that identify these same markets. Here are the views of those who speak unconventional liberalism and disregard for the value of human resources and child protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u38	A respectable president. I guess this discussion is about to end soon, but I'd like to briefly introduce one point that comes up from time to time, the question of national pay. This idea is mentioned in many places, especially in one committee party, and who knows but others, and who spoke a lot about national willingness. In fact, some of the committee's comments and comments and talks are presented. When it comes to a national law on a case like this, I have to say to myself that I really liked it very well and thought it perfectly normal that such a matter would go to a national law. On the other hand, I find such decisions to be taken by the superior authorities or by those in charge. In my opinion, it wouldn't in itself be a democracy. Direct democracy is when the people themselves decide what to do in a national fee. So I have to say, if this bill was approved by the General for approval, which I don't know would be the case if it went through three discussions, and there would be a signing list of 10% voters or more, I'd appreciate the idea of setting it up in a national law. Of course, it would be the best thing to do if it were a formal process, a process that would not depend on the desires of members of Congress, whether in smaller parts or in more parts. I just wanted to mention this briefly because it is more often heard as the discussion unfolds. So I think it's the right thing to do, especially in the light of words. Recently, prime minister of ideas of keeping a national insurance bill, something I see no basis for, nor do I call for anything. When we reflect on such matters in the light of national agreements, it is important to me that we have a prince's right to the record of national pay and direct democracy. According to this, I believe this case is an exceptionally acceptable case for a national fee. It is primarily values. It is not only a matter of fact, many of which, at least some of these are unconcerned, but of how people want to see the role of the State, to see the role of the Generalis in controlling society in the rhythm of their own values. For example, in many times, as well as in the general public, the World of Congress often gives itself to the superior authority to ensure that the best public health is the role of the Generalis. There's evidence that's kicking everything else. I just basically disagree with that. While public health is important, however, it is not governmental to determine the values that govern one's life. Each one of us makes a conscious decision every day to sacrifice for another. Sometimes we sacrifice a little bit of health for something else. Not only does it seem normal to me but it does not seem that I am, above all, my decision, not of the Generals' decision, how people want to use their time in this life. I often eat food, and most people in here often eat food they know is rough. They do, however, because that is what they want, no matter what the General feels about public health. Seting certain values, such as health in statistics, does not mean that every country's private life will become a matter of universal importance suddenly. I suggest that health is involved in important personal matters, i.e. to the extent that it belongs to the individual, but not when it comes to the duty of all of us to help one another when health problems are failing, of course, the obligation of all of us. I want to challenge what seems to be given, that it is our job to determine the values of the public. There may be an additional point next to a valid question. No matter what choice we make in this matter, it is not simply right or simply wrong. It depends on the way people want to live their lives and in the way they live. The problem with this bill and, in fact, the main reason it's a bill at the Council is that it's all about us. Even if the result was something that is basically an individual's decision, it is related to all of us in some way. So I like to put this case on national terms, but as I say and repeat earlier, I feel that the initiative should come from the nation if it was meant to be democratic.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u39	A respectable president. I've thought it a little strange in this case that some 63 senators who were elected here because of the other and not because of their opinion on the exact matter, at least I was never asked about this campaign case, and I don't exactly feel that I have the authority of my voters to take my stand when I do it - that's why I thought this case was the best case in a national law, because people have strong opinions about it, by and by the way. I'm ready to accept it if the people want alcohol in shopping, that's just the way it is, and if they don't, it's like that. I hear what you're saying. This is also the case with a member of the Parliament, for I have felt that this was the case with me. I spoke about this in my speech. Could this not be an adjustment, or would it be a solution to the nation? I suppose today I'd sit by because I don't think this is such a big deal. I don't think it's death and the devil if this happens, but I can see the evidence that access to alcohol should be limited and even limited, but it's today, if that's gone. What do you think? A senator about this? Is there a national agreement on this matter perhaps an acceptable solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u40	A respectable president. I feel personally that this matter is just the same thing for a national law. However, I feel that it is important that the people's decision on what goes on in their national pay or not. I don't think of it as anything else. I think of it as important. Piras have talked a lot about national pay, and many others too, especially after the discussion around the Constitution and the bill of administration after a collapse and a crash. and in fact, that discussion has lasted longer. National pay is not in itself a goal, it is a self - determination. In order for that self - determination right to become highly respected and active, I believe that the initiative must come from the nation. That's why I wouldn't suggest, unchanged, a change in this bill to keep a national bill because I don't think it's my job to say that. On the other hand, if there were a very clear appeal from the nation that would pass the law that I believe will be in a constitution regarding national pay, i.e. I'd like 10% of the voters or so, and that's certainly what I'd be doing. The same is true in the EU discussion. I'm happy that the people will be allowed to set issues that they care about within the bounds of the Lawgiver, of course. As with the General Assembly, the public has nothing to do with human rights or such violations of human rights. We're all under the constitution. It's such a matter that there is so much value in a question that I don't really see that it is possible to find out one right or wrong conclusion, except from some deeper values that I wasn't elected to represent, in my opinion. I can't represent it. I can represent the policy and ideologies I represent and fight for, but when it comes to such meaningful questions, it is very important to me that the nation has the opportunity to express my opinion and to really control my issues, but unfortunately, they are not at hand right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u41	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. What we do not now have in the constitution that any part of the nation can turn matters into a national law, how to see it. A senator realizes that the people, as he put it, decide to get this case in a national law? Are we talking about a collection of signatures, some list, or a call to call that would take place in the nation as it has often been? And would we senators view this as a clear case that the people wanted to have something to say? We would have started a collection of 30 thousand signatures, and then we would say, "Yes, we'd suggest that this is going to be done on national terms. " What do we do about it today while this court is not there, except that people can certainly try to influence the President and wish him to confirm the law that I could quite imagine would happen in this case, considering the depth of their feelings?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u42	A respectable president. I'm sorry, as I'm saying, this court is not present at this time, according to the current constitution. That means there's no real, neat way to do it right now. When it comes to such issues as the mackerel case, which was discussed here not long ago, and the EU address, there is such a clear desire in the nation to keep a national vote on the matter. I cannot help but insist that such cases go to a national fee and have, of course, been required by a senator. And then, of course, nothing happens unless more of the Generals decide. It's the part I find very unnatural. That's why I really think this is a tough question. However, when it comes to this particular matter, I would have full confidence in myself to join other members of the council to make such a move if there was a clear desire to be seen in the nation. I've seen a lot of debate over this matter, but I've never clearly seen a point in wanting it to be paid nationally. That would have to be very clear in my opinion. He would have to be very clear because there is no formal process now. All the things we do to get things like this on national terms, except to keep a vote-off, will always be -- I don't know a better word or a more neat, respectable president, a certain piece of shit. Then it would be a redundancy, democratic redundancy. That, by nature, makes me feel extremely uncomfortable. I don't think there's any good way. It takes much more than a change in the constitution, so it doesn't have to be redundancy, but it may be a formal part of the legislative process, such as I believe in so much. As I say, there would never be any neat way of doing this this once, but I'll be prepared to do something like this if there's an unambiguous will in front of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u43	A respectable president. I am happy to speak in this controversial matter, a bill to legalize verses with alcohol and tobacco. In my speech, I intend not only to address the public health views that have been prominent in the comments about the bill but also to some extent in the views that have been promoted by the followers of this bill, which are about the freedom of choice and freedom of the individual to choose. I don't think there's any overhistory that no family is unmoved by alcohol, and it's one way or another because of losing a family member in the clutches of the terrible disease that the alcoholic's disease is. So I think we have to step very carefully to the ground when we talk about this bill and increase people's access to alcohol. I'd like to address here the views that have been shown in the topic reviews and are about the public health issues. There I have felt that the review of a surgeon's office was quite clear and expressive. It's not a long review that says, with president's permission: ▪ The bad effect of alcohol is a big public health problem. Thus, measures that increase the availability of alcohol may impact the health of the population to a shorter or longer time, with the resulting increase in community costs. Furthermore, the surgeon general, by permission of the president, says in his review; ▪ On the basis of the best available data, as well as a review of the results of studies and advice The World Health Organization on Alcohol Action is limited for alcohol to be one of the most effective ways to cope with alcohol abuse and thereby reduce the damage caused by alcohol. Then a surgeon calls attention to the Commission's receiving a letter from the World Health Organization (WHO) in which the EIC describes concern over the possible consequences of the use of alcohol by the Icelandic government. A letter to the surgeon general shows that alcohol consumption is very likely to increase, especially among young people, vulnerable groups, and those who drink a lot. In this letter, politicians are encouraged to consider health and social factors before making decisions about the changes involved in the bill. That's where I feel that there's really enough evidence to turn the bill away. The objective of public health is strong when we discuss the increased bioavailability and distribution of alcohol sold by the surgeon general. Various research supports this and supports organizations that place great emphasis on this need not be done. I pause only at the discussion that was earlier about setting the matter up as a national law. I'm not sure children should have anything to say on this matter in a national law. Children are more often than not victims of drinking alcoholic beverages, i.e. Drinking alcohol from family members or people in their immediate surroundings That is why I would also like to point out the comments of the Children's Choice to the bill that says the word for word, by permission of the president; ▪ Alcohol consumption is likely to adversely affect the lives of children. Not only children who are adversely affected by their parents'drinking or foreseers but also children and young people who are tempted to drink alcohol because of the easier availability. The results of the preemptive work that has been accomplished in this country over the years are deemed to be abstinent among youths who are put at risk if the bill becomes legal. The original - language bill must now have come to realize this, and it can hardly ignore the comments that have been made regarding the welfare of children and families and are subject to public health. To be honest, I'm thinking a lot of thinking, and I think it's the most surprising thing about how much the members of the Independence Party have advanced this matter at the council. I also wondered, " Is the bill not composed for the purpose of serving the interests of the store and their grounds and in terms of the overforcing that is behind the emphasis on this bill and its transport at the council? ' There we also come to the other viewpoint I would like to address in my speech, i.e. the view of freedom of choice, because the carriers and supporters of the bill have talked much about the individual's freedom to choose and increase the person's access to alcohol as a consumer product. They talk about alcohol, like any other consumer when all research shows that alcohol is not like any other consumer. Everyone realizes that Iceland's access to alcohol has been pretty good and paid so far, i.e. All 20 - year - old and older Icelanders have equal access to alcohol. So I don't quite see how the current alcoholism and sales system have prevented the person from drinking alcohol. Since then, the carriers and sponsors of the bill have been saying that Iceland is almost one country in the world where alcohol is not sold at grocery stores, even if everyone who has studied it or studied it is aware that alcohol is not sold at grocery stores all over the North countries, and not in many states of the United States or all the states in Canada. That argument is not up to it. I would also like to point out that Norway and Sweden, where alcohol availability and sale are limited to state sales camps, government stores, countries that we would like to compare with when it comes to prosperity, welfare, and success if we consider it from economics, as well as the general health issues. This is the argument that the operators of the bill have promoted, i.e. that the alcoholism that has been here for ten years has failed because the access of the others has not been enough, so we must exert ourselves vigorously to correct it. When we start talking about the freedom of choice and trade and stakeholders in a store, are we not reducing the individual's freedom of choice and serving the individual's freedom in a store, thus placing it upon fewer people when it comes to selling alcohol out grocery stores? I'm pretty sure it is. I think it reflects the logic involved in the bill. I'm not going to take advantage of all the speech hours I have, but I would still like to address the viewpoints presented in the topic reviews. I mentioned only two views about whole children and children's families and the environment of children when it comes to alcohol. The surgeon general's review is very clear; it strongly opposes our changing course and is not content with the alcoholism that has been involved in these cases in Iceland for ten years. That policy has indeed been successful. We see that there is a decrease in alcohol consumption among youths. We can see that the therapeutic work, however, that the community has accomplished a tremendous amount of money. I'm not going to talk about the cost of society and the state of drinking and the drinking problem, but it really is enormously high. Although I don't have the numbers on a rhythm, the cost of alcohol - related alcohol - related accidents is enormous. Rather, I think that all of us in this country should unite in working to increase the people's health and quality of life of the people of this country and join together to protect children from the harmful effects of alcohol, which truly exist, and to put these matters beyond all in the uniform that the individual's freedom of choice is being increased by selling alcohol at grocery stores. It certainly is not. On the contrary, we will reduce the freedom of those who are to be bought with alcohol. We are in a bad situation if we are going to speak for a bill like this, as some independents have been doing here at the council in a few hours. They would hardly want to let any other matter slip away unless it is that particular matter. Rather, we should contribute to the continued reconciliation of the policies we have so far driven when it comes to alcohol and liquor stores.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech and her review of the matter. It made it a subject of freedom, freedom of choice, and so forth. In view of this, I would like to point out the level of reasonableness and harmony. Is it not strange that the only members of society, or this environment around alcohol, who are not allowed to supply alcohol or to sell, are the shops and local markets. Everyone else can sell it here, both private and public, and give it to them in various places. If they have a wine permit or if they have their jobs abroad, you can order alcohol at home. How does the senator feel about this? It's starting to get a little warped, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u45	Thank you. A senator for this question. If I get it right, he's pointing the question to me if the freedom of the store is greater than the freedom of the individual. True, this is a matter of freedom of business and the freedom of shopping. It is truly the heart condition of the Independence Party and its members, as has often been shown here in discussions about the bill. But it does not stand to believe that it would impair the individual freedom of the citizens of this country that they have to work harder to buy alcohol, and thus attend special liquor stores, while it applies to other standard commodities. If we're going to compare the freedom of the city's freedom, if that's what I understand. I believe that the freedom of the citizens outweighs the need for us to stand here in the General Court and speak for the freedom of the store.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u46	A respectable president. I was even asking a question, what was it? A senator's opinion on the discrimination within the business freedom is that all persons are allowed to shop with legal goods; I'm saying, not ordinary consumers, but legal consumers, except the store itself. That's what the system here offers, everyone can shop with alcohol except the general store. I also ask if more practical business plans cannot benefit consumers, other consumers in the store. I'm saying that the grocery store is not obliged to sell alcohol, but it's public stores that have absolute freedom to shop in this product or not. But if a store can be run in a practical way, would it not be more likely that an alternative consumer will be offered in a more practical way to the store?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u47	Thank you. A senator for the record. It is evident that his true freedom of trade and traffic are very desirable to him, not a statement about human health and the health and the environment of children. But if he's so concerned about the business freedom, I'm asking back whether he thinks it's a more economic environment to have a fair deal on products like alcohol, because there's nothing else in the cards than there's no drinking around here at 320 you. the market. The first impressions of those who have shown interest in entering this store are just that of the big businesskeepers who have high standing places in the market. So I don't quite get this connection with shopping when we talk about the market manager who has had the opportunity to ask for alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u48	Madam President. We'll discuss this bill as a matter of course. The members of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. His ministers, including the chairman of the Independence Party, were the highest. Economic and financial ministers, they think they're priorities and freedom issues. I looked into the website rebuilding.is where signatures are being collected to challenge the legislative authority and the financial authority to contribute more to the health system in order to deal with the current problems. It's months and even years of waiting, Madam President. It is a terrible situation in some areas in our health - care system, which is a matter of the heart to the people of the country. In the years to come, we need to put forth even greater effort and make even more effective efforts to cope with the situation. When I looked at the page just before, 48,926 signed the challenge. With the bill we're talking about here, it's a big priority at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers and what. Councilmen of the Independence Party, and individual occasions of occasion. The major members of Congress are being proposed for increased availability, a much higher availability of alcohol that is shown by all studies, that will only result in an increase in consumption. Increased consumption means increased stress on the health system. And not only on health, but also on law enforcement. This is a strange thought, Madam President, and I view this bill as a direct violation of the people's will in the country. No one has called for it, except the movers themselves and the individual captains of large shops. But it'll have a serious effect if it's approved. Madam President. However, the bill has not been determined by the benefit of children, as we here have undergone by signing a United Nations Children's Covenant. It will also affect sexual violence. I would also like to mention studies that discuss how to reduce lifestyle diseases, including lower incidence of cancer. One factor is to interrupt access to alcohol because alcohol causes cancer if the intake is too high, from the throat to the rectum. All studies say that the primary influence on alcohol consumption is bioavailability and cost. Time is running fast, Madam President. At the end, I would like to point out a study on the effect of stopping the sale of medium - strong beer at the grocery store in 1977, Sweden. You see, there's a comparison. The conclusion was that if medium - strong beer had not been sold at a grocery store in 1965-1977, alcohol consumption had been 15% lower. The consumption of alcohol by individuals was 8% lower in 1979 compared to that in 1977 two years after the cessation. There was a marked decrease in the rate of death and illness caused by alcohol between 1978 and1984, especially among young people. The incidence of alcohol - related injuries was much higher when medium - strong beer was sold in grocery stores. The incidence of cirrhosis was particularly high over the period of medium-sized beer administration at the grocery store. The number of road accidents decreased by 15% in the average age of 10◯19 years, 39 to40 years, and 60+ after 1977. There we have a controlled study. Madam President. I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen, when they take care of the bill to study, learn from other people's experiences, and are not adding even greater problems to both law and health systems and to social problems by agreeing to this historic bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u49	A respectable president. Now it looks like a 1st. the end of this bill. The discussion has taken some 20 hours, which was not the point where the subject received a similar discussion at the last assembly. The bill is presented almost unchanged, except that there has only been a strict demand that all show identification, allowing it to reevaluate the system during its first period of work, and so on. These are the changes made from year to year, otherwise the bill remains the same. Like I said, the bill's got a lot, and I'm telling you good coverage. For the public and members of the council, much has been clarified, and it is now clear and confirmed that there is no danger. It is important to review just how the bill is after this discussion, because much has been said about it as merely putting alcohol into a grocery store and increasing access to alcohol. The bill, on the other hand, had nothing to do with it and was never the goal of it. It is not a competition for alcohol to be sold in grocery stores and to be visible there. Nor do I hope that it will not be separated from another product as possible in the shops, which I expect to be done, and so there is experience elsewhere where this is at the people, at least in most places. The bill was obviously following the WHO guidelines that the state should have held its terms, have a clear rule line on it, and thus control its sale, but it does not emphasize that the government itself owns the product trade. That arrangement is still under way. We're just changing one item, who's authorized to sell the product, not how it's sold. There is still a clear requirement for the duration of opening hours and advertisements, of age to buy and staff, the rules are even hardened, the penalty for violations is clear, and the government still has full control of the pressures of alcohol charge, which I believe have the greatest impact on sales figures on alcohol, i.e. The nation's economy and the price of alcohol. We could think about it now when the nation's economy is improving whether alcohol consumption will increase excessively. And there's also certain discrimination, so it may have something to do with the commercial freedom that has been talked about, because it seems that everyone can shop with this legal product without the fact that the store in the country can do that, just everybody else. It is also so that those who run some sort of store cannot order the State's liquor store next to them, affecting the attendance at the sellable markets. That's where we're talking about community interests and other things like that. Above all, it is a matter of sincerity in setting priorities for the State, of what it uses its energy to do better in controlling society and where it uses its resources. The first talk discussed the health system and the collection of signatures. So I think it's good to take this up with this discussion. We're talking about using the money instead of having excessive drinking shops all over the country, subsidizing money from tobacco trade. Rather, I want to use the money the state has attached to it, the waste that is going on there, to strengthen the health system, and especially around alcohol. No one has claimed that alcohol is a standard product that would not harm you. Everyone agrees that she does. But we must deal with it and focus on it, not on the rules and laws that tell people how to act on that problem. That's not what's behind it. I want to reiterate what I said before that the bill is not about increasing access to alcohol. It's not about selling it to the grocery store, but it's not about that they're allowed to do it, but it's not about doing it. Because of it. The members of Congress often make it a subject of much time and effort, and what it has been most important, I suggest that this much discussion, both in the community and in the Senate, now go to the General and Education Committee to deal with it, and that it be handled in a democratic process, and members of Congress are allowed to decide whether or not to act. Then they don't have to delay other matters around here any further. I believe that's been arranged many times. There were 70 reviews of the case in the last assembly. It was discussed with most reporters for the General and Education Committee. The case is practically unchanged in here. They are again under discussion for 20 hours and have been given much community discussion. I think the matter is to be ready to head for Congress so he can decide whether he wants it to work or not. I'll bet you the change isn't great. It is changing who can sell the alcohol, but the whole arrangement is still in the hands of the State and not necessarily that its access will change. The next year, the drug trade system for alcohol will no doubt change much and go more into special stores and on the Internet, it will increase. We've seen that despite the rise in total alcohol sales in Iceland and in the state of the country, sales are contracted together, what is sold through the ATVR. On the other hand, if we look back, we will have built up a highly expensive government trading network that will always be less and less involved. People are changing their eating habits, perhaps less buying alcohol to live at home, and more enjoying them when they go out to eat, since wine stores have increased. The tourists use these places, too. The number of wine clubs and beer clubs that order alcohol in together has increased, and some even produce small amounts of alcohol themselves. Then, a network store over the ocean has increased dramatically, and individuals are ordering the product directly off the Internet. It may well, then, that the United States suddenly sits down with empty shops, and money does not benefit from the medical system. While this discussion has been held at the council, I have attended a meeting of residents, for example, for filming in Puppy Stadium, where I find a complaint about a government agency, the Southland Institute of Health, changing time on health care and having an open space of three days instead of five. At the same time, a liquor store is open for five to six days of the week in the same space. Both are expelled from the state. We need to focus on how the environment is, what changes are being made. Let us not lose ourselves in the discussion with feelings and sweeping issues when there are other facts. I direct people to study the latest edition of the governor's "Granda well. " This shows how alcohol consumption was reduced in the economy, from 7.5 liters per person to 6.9, and has returned to 7.2. In this regard, there is always a measure of measurement, for when it comes to the increase in alcohol consumption, it is not expected in the number of tourists that have soared. No doubt, they drink more than that because they attend a large dining house that has soared considerably. Also, the wine industry has been modified. Many have reported that when beer was allowed, the pattern of drinking was changed, and alcohol was taken from drinking to normal wine culture, many people want to say. This can be discussed over and over again. I thank you for the discussion and attention the bill has received. I don't need to have it on my conscience that the case goes unconcerned or unexamined through the council. I challenge the U.S. Senate to allow the case for votes and to show that members of Congress are ready to make a democratic decision with or against the bill. I can't wait to deal with it on a global and educational committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u50	A respectable president. It is very nice to finally come up here and present this matter to this council. We wait all last council, or before Christmas too, to bring this important matter to our time, which is a bill for the adjustment of public penalties, No. 19/190, no revenge restrictions. The bill's forwarders are beside me. Councilmen Brynhildur St Pétursdóttir, Steingrímsson Steingmursson, Otttir Proppé, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Róbert Marshall; so to speak, the entire Council of Birts the future. This bill suggests that there will be an incriminate form of vendettas. Revenge is a means of dispensing or publishing images or videos without the permission of what is on the subject and which is meant to cause injury or discomfort or to be slighted. Often these are nude photos or clearly sexual photographs and/or videos of an individual. Vengeance porn draws its name because it is sometimes, not always, used for revenge after a love affair, but it can also be the distribution of footage that a person has sent away in good faith. The Internet is a democracies site of the 21st century, and it is a very important tool for individuals to take advantage of their freedom of expression. Yet, we do know that the Internet has its own dark aspects, including those on the Internet, especially women, often with very systematic violence. Its access to the Internet is widely available and easily and to the use of vengeance on the Internet can be distributed for years. These fragments just keep ruining people's lives. It is stated that messages are clear to the users of the network that when they have a photo in their hands or a video, they do not have it and are not authorized to distribute it; saying, picture or video of this kind, I want to state clearly. This is especially true when it comes to films and videos that the material is not intended for distribution, such as in terms of mere history or sexual presentation or a condition that is evident that the person in the picture does not want the world to see. It is important that people take responsibility and not share in distributing such footage. The last loss has been a great discussion of acts of revenge, both at home and abroad. In April of last year, reports that in a foreign chat site, men in the United States were trading pictures of naked Icelandic girls. In the 14th year of her life, it was reported that hundreds of Icelandic girls had entered the chat site. In that case, it seems that women in prominent parts of society, e.g. In film games, a systematic threat has been made with the distribution of footage of them, which is designed to minimize and suppress them. We've seen global society reacting to this. We have seen a lot of discussions at home and abroad, and the conclusion is that these fractions, in fact, are involved in these activities so that we are discussing sexual abuse in this context. A large part of the victims of such acts of revenge are young people, and at the same time, it seems that a part of the attackers of revenge is one of the same group. Therefore, it is important to teach young ones the effect of distributing vengeance and about the seriousness of such offenses. It is not sufficient to teach only about its legal effects, if the bill is accepted, although it will clearly shed light on the severity of the bacteria as these. It also requires teaching about its psychological effects on those who tolerate it. Everyone, including children and young people, has to understand the seriousness of such distribution and the extent and depth of its impact. Then there is the need to make sure that those who send photos of themselves in a blameless manner recognize that such images can go into distribution, but by making distributions of the imaging material, the likely odds are reduced. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the responsibility and the blame are not brought upon the victims of vendetta suicide - I stress this - as we know that often they want to commit sexual abuses. This is not to be done in the discussion of vendettas. It is not for them to be accused who have sent material away in good faith. To the others, it is to blame for the spread of the material and thus continue to use violence in that way. The bill is the first step in ensuring that the charges against those who are supposed to carry it, the spreaders of the vendetta, and is a clear signal to the victims of such crimes that their case is taken seriously as well as that the system provides tolerance to those who have offended them. I'm going to go through only current legislation, which we already have here in the country, which is not complete and that is why we are in a bright future to contribute this change. The exposure of nude images to the dissatisfaction of the individuals within them has increased dramatically, but in this country it has been difficult to apply such a procedure under the law of general penal law, No. 19/1940. The publication and distribution of such graphics may be carried out on regulations of 233.g. The law states that a person who insults or insults his mate or his ex - spouse, his child, or another person who is close to a doer, and a deed will be considered to be a prison sentence for up to two years. However, there are limits to the situation, and this law applies only to a marriage mate, a former spouse, or to a close family member, not to others who distribute or print footage. Then there is a relatively new law in penalties, from 2006, and although there are several counts of vendettas on this basis, this has not been the basis for judicial action in the matter of vengeance. I just want to mention that now there are various judgments - since we publish this bill first, that is, a year ago - being falling where this law is being used 233. gr. b, and it has been shown that this old law, or as it stands at this time, is not a means of covering vengeance. There have been recent cases of judgment, e.g. Last December 10, 2015 of the Supreme Court. We will then see that judges consider, for example, individuals who have not been in touch with the party's obligation to make this old law apply to them. There's a hole we need to stop at, and that's the purpose of the bill. The release of such footage may also be on 229 stre. The law states that anyone who makes a public report about another person's personal affairs without a sufficient reason is that justice should be treated guilty or imprisoned up to one year. This law, like the rest of 233rd par. b, there is a law of delinquency and violations of privacy. Revenge is thus burned to the point of a gross violation of privacy, which can also be viewed as a sexual offense. The section of the law that deals with sexual misconduct contains regulations that have often been cited in the discussion of acts of vengeance. According to 2 mg. 210. g. Sentencing up to six months of imprisonment involves distributing or distributing pornography or other such items. 3 mg. 210. g. it is decreed that giving up the same punishment was the same for youths under 18 years of age. In many cases the victims of vendettas are individuals under 18 years of age, and such imaging falls under child pornography law, thus being punished with up to two years of imprisonment, in accordance with 210. a penal law. When it comes to threatening, extorting, or forcing the person on a film to compromise, to engage in sexual activity, or to other matters, it may be a violation of various legal requirements. Impliciting that falls under revenge may also be a matter of some cases dealing with writers' law, No. 73/1972. Despite the above laws, there is no clear law that makes vengeance sensitive. Hence, the bill suggests that such judicial decisions will be added to the penalties and taken from no doubt about the severity of such offenses. I also want to go through the laws of our neighboring countries and what we've been looking at when we agreed on this bill. Revenge is, as we know, an international problem but is a bit on the surface now. Nations and nations are waking up, but various nations have made vengeance pay off. For example, many countries of the United States have already taken legal action. There, in 2003, New Jersey was the first to establish legislation on this subject. It hears the distribution of vendettas under violation of privacy, but since then the debate on vendettas has developed very, and it is now regarded not only as a gross violation of privacy but primarily as a sexual offense. More U.S. countries have now made vengeance paybacks, and in 2013 Israel became the first to establish such laws. In the North, we see the discussion similar to that in this country, and this is being won. I may not be particularly concerned about what it is like there, in this talk of mine. It's all presented in a paper with the bill. But I would like to know that Britain has recently adopted a law against revenge. This bill suggests two changes to penal law, No. 19/1940. On the one hand it is suggested that the distribution and release of vengeance will be defined as a sexual offense in the case of release or distribution of images or videos that depict an individual naked or sexually unconcerned. It is suggested, however, that if we take offenses and offenses against privacy, we add to the terms that make the release or distribution of punishments in order to cause pain or distress or to be slighted for the person we hate. The distribution and release of vendettas, in which footage shows a person naked or sexually explicit, certainly is meant to cause suffering or distress or to be slighted. We did not feel that we were content to take only the prohibition against vengeance. So we take these two articles to heart, and I'm going to read them up. 1st par. it is as follows: ▪ Anyone who imports, cleans, or scatters footage, photographs, movies, or comparable items where a person is shown naked or in a sexual way without the approval of the film will be put in prison for up to 1 year, and up to 2 years if the fracture is gross. So here's 2. Which we'd like to add, that after 229th par. Let the law bring in a new article, which is as follows: ▪ Anyone who publishes or scatters footage, photographs, movies, or similar items, and manifestations, or distributions, is designed to cause suffering or discomfort, or if the sufferer is slighted, prisons should be put up to 1 year, and up to 2 years if the offense is gross. I'd like to direct it to the Committee to link these two articles more closely, because I've seen it, and when we're considering this afterwards, it'll be clearer to let 2. It's a figure of 1st. G., I'm told by lawyers, so it's a little mutual. I've done all right, and I'm glad I got the case. I've waited a long time, and I know that it's up to members of the council to do this well. I hope we get to the point where we can finish it. I also hope that we are not playing the game of selling horses with senators such as this, or with any other good case of a broad solidarity. I hope this has a natural start, and it doesn't pay me or any other senators that they get through. I hope that all members of Congress think that this is the right thing for the toleration of the sexual abuse that takes place on the Internet. Let us not let it overshadow anything else. We need to do this better on the law because it's the old law 233. gr. ................................. [.............................................................. The definition of the relationship between a person and a doer is too narrow, and we need to open it up, since we are merely dealing with a former mate or a local resident. It's just this, for example, according to this judgment on December 10, that suddenly people who had been together are having an affair, not defined as people who had a close relationship, since they were not registered to marriage or something similar. It does not deal with the reality we live in today, so we need to fix it. I'm not going to have more to say about this at this time, but I'm looking forward to hearing what the committee says and what testimony it gives from various social sources, which comments it receives. It is hoped that the committees will be able to change and improve if necessary. I welcome all such discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before history, and I agree that I think this is a brilliant bill, i.e. Its purpose. Now, as the senator pointed out, it is a year since the bill was submitted, and here she chooses to present it and her council unchanged. The case was sent out for review and received reviews last, and I would like to ask about some of the items that appear there and why the senator decided not to take them into the bill because I hear that she has had a conversation with lawyers who turn them. to further unite these two articles of the bill. First, the director of Southnes points out that it is desirable in Article 1. it should be noted that photographs and other similar materials cannot be changed, e.g. To round up a picture of a body like another's face. Counts 'em out. A senator that if she chose not to change it now, is there something she would want to change? Then I would also like to ask about the concept of vengeance. Iceland's Women's Rights Association proposed to call it currant porn, and an Associator agreed, and Iceland's Human Rights Office concluded that it would be bad if the definition adhered to the concept of revenge. This would be more of a scandalous habit than a vendetta because it doesn't have to be just a matter of taking revenge. Can the senator agree? Would she want to see that change in the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the answer. I'm afraid we don't have the correct document, because last year I had finished putting in a lot of fancy pictures. [[Up front.]] So it's some kind of mistake. This was shown in the first paragraph, I'm sure in the report. So it's some small act that we must be able to fix. With the term on the bill, it's not sacred to me that it's called revenge porn. But now we're dealing with a object called ◯reevnge porn in English, and it's quite ready to talk about the same thing. Snuggly porn makes me feel a little weaker if I'm going to say exactly what it is. But I also say so, and I have made it in my speeches that the revenge such as it is not necessarily present in all cases, especially in those who do not know the individual but who continue to distribute the footage; of course, there is no revenge for those who have said nothing to mail but to distribute the footage. It's not a big deal to me, but I think personal vendettas are a stronger word, and I think it needs to be kept in mind that this is a serious matter. Freckle someone's not so strong somehow. But I think it's okay to look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I don't know if the word makes me feel stronger. Of course, all of us want to put our arms around this, and that may be the main issue, in view of it as well as the driving force. A senator said that this is not necessarily about revenge for a third, fourth, or fifth party that continues to distribute the footage. There is no need for revenge, so there may be a risk that the definition can stick to this concept. I think the General and Education Committee needs to look into it and I'm coming up to discuss it, we're sitting here with at least four of that committee, so I think we should just think about it. Since then, IMI and other members came on 2.g. and felt that the law was not clear enough. I think it was both the mayor of the Southnes, the district attorney, and others who thought it was 2.g. If it were not clear enough, it would have to be defined, it would be too open. IMMI notes that this may be not just a case of vendettas but that may apply to other matters. I ask if the senator will agree that it may be necessary to form and squeeze the article better. I agree with the senator about the definition of tolerance and the bacteria that it is too weak in the law today and needs to be fixed. However, regarding the things needed to explain, the director of Southnes also points out that causing tolerance or distress is too ecstatic, and words need to be better. I ask myself, " Has the senator wondered what it was best to do? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u54	A respectable president. Yes, as mentioned in my talk, I've thought about it a bit and looked at a lawyer who is well acquainted with these matters and agrees that these two articles need to be joined together because if you read 2 gr. And by itself, she's way too wide. She needs to appeal to Comb 1. There is something that I would like to direct to the committee, and of course, I can pass through my senator on this committee. We will. Now I can't remember if there were any more questions than I would like to tie it up a bit as a boy. A senator just mentioned that we need to look out for the definitions. We'll see that today's law doesn't control this. In this regard, I would like to read only from the court sentence that I referred to earlier, which fell on December 10 of the Supreme Court. It says, by permission of the president: A further oral presentation was based on the fact that the relationship between defendants and offenders was observed to have been close in the sense of 233. g. b. general penalties, although it is undisputed that the relationship lasted over a year. I mean, how long do you have to stay in touch so you can talk in touch and it's somehow clear that you're being violated by someone who's been in contact with you? I don't understand anything about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u55	Mr. President. I decided to come up with an answer rather than a speech. I don't think there's a lot of words to be said about this great bill. I come up here mostly to celebrate. A senator and her associates have made a second attack on this excellent subject on the council program and on the treatment. I sure hope so. A top-of-the-art Board of Education will take this case for real. To tell you the truth, I trust it will be done. I'd suggest in a hurry that this would be called a vendetta because that's kind of what it's all about. It is a psychological crime, but it is also a sexual offense. It is a very subtle, mysterious and disgusting crime designed to cause distress and oppression, as well as to influence people's lives and can have a wonderful impact on their future if they are badly beaten, including. Work opportunities and other factors, since this is a form of disillusionment and contempt. However, it can be wondered what social media have changed much into our reality. In recent years, such vendettas have increased dramatically due to the development of social media. There's also another sort of vendetta and hussy, which is actually going to talk. I think we can think about that. It would be interesting to hear a attitude. A senator to see if there is reason to consider this also in the matter of judicial counsel how to talk, for it is possible to talk in ways other than images to talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u56	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, and I'll say the same thing. A senator with regard to what she said last time, i.e. Hurtful comments, but then we may have gone into something else. I agree to some extent that we are to protect the freedom of expression and all that. It's all too strange that it's okay to be unforgiving and boring and hurtful. I think it's a strange reality, but it's the way it is. It's getting bigger, that I think, that a loud group stands for a dull discussion that can be hurtful, and you don't know what the point is. Somehow it needs to be wrapped around it, preferably by instruction and love, but I don't really know if he can access the system of communication or wherever it is. I don't know. Thank you so much for the tip on that new name. That would be fine for me, for revenge and revenge. If that explains what we mean, I probably feel that we are adding it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u57	A respectable president. Actually, I was thinking not only of those who are boring on the Internet but of the serious tendency that sometimes comes from the debate, especially with women. This is what can be called sexual harassment in speech talk talk, when it comes to painful and personal things that are basically presented in a sexual way to satisfy the one we are discussing. Sexual degradation can be done in ways that involve more than composite images and metaphors. Often, speech can become very difficult and aggressive. This was mainly a philosophical speculation because the basic thing is that we're not beyond the point so we have this bill right now, which aims towards the need to be handled and to control vendettas and currant porn. That is a step we haven't taken yet, but let's get started. I can't wait to contribute to this case as well as I can to the General and Education Committee because it's very necessary. I reiterate my gratitude to the merchants of this assembly, to make another move. I hope they don't have to be any more.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u58	A respectable president. I thank you again for the good wishes and much support I find in the case. I hope that the members of all classes would like to be exposed to this new reality, and actually new crimes and violence, especially those directed against women, very often unscrupulous teenage girls and, of course, boys as well. What we observed last year was that the whole community was completely caught up in the throat. What was so beautiful, and what happened in the movement was that young people patched themselves together and simply said: "We're not going to take this shame on us, and we're going to help them and those who are being oppressed like this and change this, and we're not going to take care of them. That was naturally extremely important. I think we also need to have some penalty laws in order to get those who do this and punish them in a way that we think is important and wise. The Internet is hard and all about getting around these things, but we can't just ◯grubed in the Internet is some reality that we can't interfere with or set any rules. It's not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u59	Mr. President. I'm not going to stay with this matter for long. I am so glad that it has come to pass again and, in fact, for a long time, that in view of the position we are facing in an electronic world, the council may in some way embrace this activity. It is very important that we send out the message that it is completely unacceptable and punished to distribute personal footage without the approval of the person to be printed. I think it's at least the best thing to do with the law to try to put some frame around it. I have a job before I came into the council having to deal with these matters only with young girls, even for some years that it began out of some serious nature. It's a strange situation to be standing with a 13, 14 - year - old girl who's sending pictures of herself bare-hearted to an alleged boyfriend, pictures that are so in circulation across all keppa. Then we will come back to what we have. A senator was talking about earlier, whether or not this should be called revenge, because this may not even begin as a form of revenge, but just because of immorality I think, total immorality, because it's talking about girls who might be excited about a boy and who are not necessarily thinking that sending a picture could have these consequences, and there are usually some older ones who are taking advantage of it. I think it's very important that we consider it in our discussion and the coverage of the General Education Committee how we're going to continue teaching. Are we going to leave it to the school? We're in a lock arrest. Are we going to take some kind of trouble? This is as important, whether through school or in the form of effort as the breast revolution was and all that has been discussed here in Congress, when young girls and young people are trying to return their shame. We need to try to control how we see the best possible way to reach the population we need to reach. There are then, first of all, young girls, most often, but there's no way to get over it, they're probably young boys too, but it doesn't apply just to young people. But if we try to reach this group in an effort to prevent image exposure or to become as few people as possible, how do we do it differently than through the school system? As we saw with the breast revolution and such campaigns that have been in the community, they have clearly yielded a great deal and the scene that The Law was carrying yields, of course, much where young girls speak to their fellow citizens and sisters and brothers in this context, but it still needs to be determined to my knowledge. Regarding the bill as such, I agree with what was said earlier that it is also psychological in so many respects and can have an effect on the future. Words can also be humiliated by words, such as those mentioned earlier sexual appearances. It can be drawn very low in words, and it can be done in many places. It can be very painful. It doesn't necessarily have to be a metaphor. This is something that we need to know if we can put our finger around in this context. I also agree that I find the remarkable judgment mentioned earlier, that it really is so that a year's relationship does not seem to have been close. You ask yourself. Just how many years do we have to make it possible for a relationship to be held closely in such a situation? I had been through the reviews of the case when it was submitted to the last council. They agree somewhat, as I came in earlier, that both branches of the bill need to be put on a little tighter. In the case of children and young people under 18 years of age, the director of Southnes is wondering if the right way to handle such issues is through the sexual abuse process and thinks it can be a burden to both parties. It will be interesting to have them come to a meeting and discuss these matters with us just what they consider more suitable ways to cope, other than the instruction we all agree on the need to do. The chief of police gives an example of 1. g., and pointing out if the photograph is sent through Snapchat, which at all times should be destroyed in 10 seconds, it can be saved. Does this mean that the film was sent with the person's consent, or is the person who accepts the picture out of favor if he saves the picture, even if he only has it on his own phone and is not necessarily distributing it? Granted, the Snapchat program is installed thinking that the picture will be destroyed. The agency wondered if the person who gets the picture decides to save it and own it, if he is going outside for the desired approval. There are these questions that come to mind and merit our meditation in our conversation with the committee. The chief of Southnes also enters the Internet as a picture of a particular person by grouping pictures of different sources and sending them on the Internet. It is natural to disregard the person by making something from him on the Internet. These are tips that I liked to read, as more people come to the matter, naturally arise questions because you are always thinking about how to finish the matter. I think it was the child's spirit that was concerned that it would be difficult to grasp it. I kind of think it's our main concern on the committee, trying to get my hands on this, because I really want it to end. The district attorney gave a tip on the matter last, but it was just waiting for a specific judgment. It only struck me that the district attorney thought that the current provision, which we see today, is not at all. It'll be interesting to see that throne, how the office handles this now. The district attorney points out that it is necessary to investigate in a more precise way the legal environment and the judicial action in our neighboring countries before a decision to change our punishments. I'd appreciate it if it hadn't just been checked out, but it probably isn't because the case didn't have any progress. There would have been a hurry to the process if it was to hang itself into something like that. It hasn't been checked yet. Of course, we put our heads behind us and hope that the matter will be resolved by this council. Well, it's been a while, so it should be possible to do so. The case will go to the committee, and hopefully we'll be in charge next week and we'll go out for review, and then we'll be able to make a decision, I think, in February 3rd week after the election week, we'll have guests. I hope that the matter will be established, won't be pushed aside for government matters that may begin to come in, so I hope that the Chairman of the Committee and the greater part will be able to see the advantage in getting a career. As for the privacy I entered earlier, IMI points out that despite this institution's protecting the freedom of expression and information, it's also important that privacy is important, and that's what's being tried to get around in the bill. But they also point to 2 Peter 3: 13. ., it's too extensive, and we need to try to squeeze it a little. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I think it's a good thing. Questions have come up, and I hope we can handle this and figure it out at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u60	A respectable president. I'm just gonna give you a quick answer, I'm gonna give you another answer. We've been talking about this, me and what. A senator, and I never understood how the district attorney could see it to the current law of 233rd par. b. this may be achieved because it applies to a relationship or a spouse. We're discussing another reality. People don't have to have been together, that's what our bill is going on, or in a relationship, someone related to you in other ways can send a picture like this, that's what we're talking about, we need to get in the way of it. I agree with that. A senator for education is number one, two and three. It matters that young boys and girls are not using such images in a boring way, if we can say so, without realizing the consequences of distributing them: perhaps wondering: " Wait a minute, what have I done? We need to discuss number one, two and three, that this is not okay. But if you don't, I'd like to say something about it. A senator mentioned the immorality we are discussing here; if it is possible to prevent immorality, let us try to pin it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I was trying to read through the district attorney's notice. I don't quite understand how she'll come to that conclusion. It refers to this connection, like a whale. A senator came in, between doers and gruels, and then a wrongdoer had to appeal to a very serious matter. She'll come in on 2. I understand that the connection that exists in the bill should be resolved, I understand that. It will be interesting to hear from the district attorney, how her office handles this now. It points out that the bill does not address the charge of the new regulations regarding Article 242. a general penal law, but it shows that such violations are public charges. I assume, in view of the cases that have been judged, that when the State Attorney comes to the Committee, she proposes how this should look and answer whether it is still in the same opinion, or whether we're mistaken unless it's both.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u62	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator is eager to submit this bill again. We talked about it at the last assembly and we'll do it again. There is certainly a problem with 233 grams. b in general penal law. Clearly, this article was not thought of as a result of a much wider way of thinking, nor is it responsible only for the former spouses. I don't have much time to discuss that point here, but I have quite a few things to say so that I'm going to allow the fine talks that have been delivered here to review that matter. It may be justified that this in itself is not a new type of offense, something that is novel, how easy it is to commit it, which means that the problem has grown greatly after the information technology revolution. This certainly is one of the dark sides of the fast development of technology. It is tempting for this class and this type of crime to want to stop them and hope that the problem will just go away somehow, but the nature of information is not like that. It's not a moral estimate. It's a technical reality. The farther the legislation is technically real, the more likely the legal side effects will be, while the greater the likelihood that the law will not produce the desired results. I want this bill to work, I want it to be law. I want it to be realistic. I want it really to slow down and keep out of the cleats. So I present a number of upbuilding criticisms that are intended only to improve and make it work. I start with definitions because they often get in the way of pornography, especially when it comes to pornography. I'm going to first define 3.5 terms: Pornography: Direct demonstration or expression of sexual content in order to cause sexual passion. Home pornography: It's the same thing, done by interested persons, always at home. Knell porn or vendetta: A fabric intended solely for a very narrow group, often only to those present or very close to them. When it comes to the bill, I'll check on 2kr. that it is too extensive in my opinion and that the distribution of all kinds of substances in itself is not relevant to sex, pornography, or sneering. I think it's a little too big and it's not exactly a reason for having it in two articles. I think one article would do it. In this regard, I would suggest that we stick to what we have to consider. It is, of course, a violation of privacy and the violation of sexual freedom, in other words sexual misconduct. Sometimes it is also a triviality or something about it. All right. It's fine for others to talk about it. But I don't like to carry it along because I don't view nudity, sex, or pornography as repugnant in nature. I just don't think sex is demeaning. I think it's an opinion, and I don't think it's the main thing. The important thing to me is this two things: the privacy of the offender's private life and the sexual freedom of the offender. Even if it is a relatively innocent, very beautiful nude picture that no one would normally feel ashamed of, it still violates privacy, and it still violates sexual freedom, although it in itself is not degrading or shameful. That's why I'm getting the information out of these two friends. The bill suggests improvement; on the one hand, 229. gr. a and, however, 210 gt. c. 210. g. Without letters, it is the famous and in my opinion ancient and almost unique pornography ban, which is no longer common in Western liberal democracies. It has become very rare, and we have become a little bit more international when it comes to having a porn ban here. However, as noted earlier, pornography is not necessarily a demeaning nature. It is only sexual material that is presented for the purpose of causing sexual passion. In this context, I will suggest that instead of bringing a 210. gr. c Then this article simply replaces the current 210 gr. So that the new article will enjoy itself as a meaningful article and legitimately forbid some form of pornography, you will see stumbling porn. It's an idea I encourage people to think about. Then we'd be on our way out of this cursed 210. Which is a disgrace to Iceland, I claim, but I know some people here disagree with me in that. But I'll admit it. She's a disgrace. Also, I'd like to mention about 210. The porn ban is that I object to taking responsibility by the victims of autism and putting it on the spreads of snout porn because according to 210.g. is a victim of a barbaric criminal. The victim of a nudity porn has broken 210 gr. It's a piece of shit in 210. That's why I'm so against her so much, apart from that, of course, that she's in no mood with today. This is what I have to say about 210. g., the location of the bill article and the connection with the porn ban. Another factor I have for the bill is that I feel that it makes one observer inadvertently responsible for something he cannot be responsible for. Thanks to its contents, it is not always obvious whether pornography is being distributed. The viewer actually has little or no basis for evaluating it from random Internet websites unless, of course, he has the direct information, which I claim is rarely the case when it comes to stumbling, including the horror of the phenomenon. I feel that the responsibility should be richer because the giver or user is the victim. They need to take advantage of opportunities to find the responsible one. I think it's a key role in making the law work, i.e. that there is a certain person in the crime that can be held accountable, not only legally but also in a practical way through police research and the equipment that has been equipped to investigate crime and prosecute for them. Sometimes it is very obvious who the criminal is, such as in relationships. I'm not gonna talk about that once I've actually threatened the distribution. Usually, the material is distributed to very few people, usually just one person. That person can be held accountable. Sometimes the material is distributed to just more parties, of course, the study is careful but can be held responsible for it. I find it wise to have more responsibility than anything that is broken by it. Computer crime is actually possible. Even if it is in some ways more difficult, in some ways it is easier. If this picture is distributed through Facebook or email or some kind of program, you can often investigate it. You can find out which IP numbers are available. Sometimes they are listed by names or whatever, of course, it's all running. This is just as in the real world that circumstances differ in varying degrees in order to investigate crime. But computer crime can be investigated and investigated, informed, and convicted. I think it's important that we hold on to ways that make these practical. I believe that the bill as it is right now is broad, and it stresses the person who sees the material somewhere or spreads it somewhere in town without having an idea of each subject or whether it is in its credit, making it not a realistic way to investigate and condemn the offenses that I would consider to be a very serious problem with law enforcement. You see, it needs to be based on methods that give the authorities the opportunity to investigate the matter. If the law that defines a violation is in its nature in a much conflict with reality, then the law will not be carried out and it will miss its mark. The last thing I want to do is this second good bill. One thing I have to consider is that I don't feel that the bill is responsible enough for those who have the material legally in their hands, i.e. with the consent of the person in the material, because the person can always feel at all times, and sometimes correctly, that the material has been leaked into the Internet, that someone has hacked the computer or stolen it when the person is not seeing or something like it. I imagine wrongdoers would carry such things for them and it would be very difficult to prove it wrong. So it is important that as soon as the person gets the material in his hands or on the computer, or whatever the case is, he is already responsible for it before he distributes it. He then receives some kind of objective responsibility. This implies that he should know that a personal subject is involved. I believe that it can be carried out and that it would even give a much clearer message to people, i.e. When it gets such material, it should be handled with caution, not just refraining from distributing it to friends. It should be handled with caution in general. It should be kept out of distribution. People are responsible even if someone else is the bad man, for the goal must be to reduce such offenses to the best of their ability. I think that the most neat way is to make an objective responsibility for someone who has the material under his hands who knows it is personal. Similarly, that responsibility would move to others who know or should know that it is a personal matter. It would be possible to account for its distribution, whether by deliberate or by serious impunity. If we go that way, we should also weigh the penalty a great deal, from this one to two years to at least six years, in my opinion, even eight, because I believe the police need to have legal grounds to study these matters seriously. This requires getting close to the problem from the right party, in line with technology, and so forth. In view of the seriousness of a crime, however, it must also be top priority and that the police consider it a reasonable priority. If I have to put this in one sentence, I suggest that the responsibility is formed as soon as someone gets the material to him entrusted with it, then the responsibility must be considered immediately, rather than when consumed by any third stranger who does not know, or when it first comes into circulation. I think that approach in the bill is well thought-of-the-art and it's time to start talking there. But I think we need to consider the responsibility long before the material is distributed and before someone is watching it. The responsibility must be immediately formed, it must be clear from the beginning, and it also needs to be valid for parties before breaking the law. They must accept the objective responsibility, in my opinion. I don't have anything else to say for a while, but as I say, all my criticism of the matter is upbuilding, and I sincerely hope there's a payment at the General Assembly. I agree with what you're saying. A senator in the hope that this will not be part of some ◯vile and ravile, or whatever man wants to say it here, but will get through because it's a problem we need to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-26-67.u63	A respectable president. I'm going to finish the discussion by briefly speaking, and I'm going to start by thanking all the members of the council who have sat here and listened and clearly studied the matter. Clearly, all of them are willing to pass the case, and many of them too, as it were. A senator who was ponté ahead of me, covered this well, and made better. That's fine. I expect and trust that the committee will handle this case and improve it and if necessary change it. That is certainly what we should do on committees. I expect a lot of that job. The reality, as we know, is a growing problem in today's information community. This bill is put forward to resist it. We need to take responsibility from the release and distribution of vengeance against the doers, and we need to make our conduct punished. This is serious. This is violence, sexual violence, which is usually directed against young people, often against women, and especially against young girls. At the same time, we need to instruct young people and children on the seriousness of these offenses so that when they receive images or graphics or see them online, they do not distribute them and place them on the Internet, as the consequences may be serious. We need to help people understand how difficult it is for the victims of these crimes to live with, even for years, the idea of living independent lives on the Internet. This can have enormous consequences for long - term people. Modern legislation does not cover vendettas. This has become clear with recent decisions. The date of a sentence that fell on December 10 of the Supreme Court shows that Article 233 of Directive. b has a narrow understanding of the sufferer and doer, and is not adequate. Therefore, all members of the Parliament submit this bill to a bright future. We certainly hope that the victims of these crimes won't have to wait for years for the law to become in Iceland.
