ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u1	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, the government's banking department came to the fore. A legal committee confirmed what is stated in a letter addressed to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers, that the bank's chairman has failed to respond to criticism and that the bank's professional appearance has failed. The banking board demands the National Bank Council to respond appropriately. I'm not going to figure out what measures are appropriate for the bank council to regain. It is indeed difficult, as an article in the core of this project says, but it also says that when it comes to building the financial market, we politicians need to take a look at ourselves. It also states that although much has been done very well, including building the Lands Bank, we politicians must take to heart the responsibility we have of a stronger frame, equal to and legal obligation, and open and transparent sales procedures on property and debt. Have we done enough, or have we held back enough from these viewpoints? That is what we need to ask ourselves. The core's answer is: No. I'm sorry, the pay matter is proof of that. Clearly, we must learn and do better. Recent examples of such activities and responsibilities are the legal requirement for creating the budget and assets established by the stability of financial companies. There's a reason. A financial and economic committee put forth earnest effort to ensure clear legal management and rights that there is the establishment of a budget for the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs at the full level and for the sale of valuables that highlight transparency, objectiveness, equality and practicality in which administrative and information laws lay the basis and fully in accordance with Article 45. it's a government law. Showing this example, we are aware of our responsibility and want to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u2	A respectable president. There are differences between children in our health systems in Iceland. They are discriminated against by what sort of diseases they have, whether they are physically called or spiritually. If a child is injured or is affected by such diseases, a public health care in the country and in the presence of a remarkable baby - care institution is being performed in many ways on a global scale. On the other hand, if a mental - health disorder is a mental - health disorder, there is no general health care to promise these children. It is not a medical emergency service but a waiting list for these children. This was still confirmed at a meeting of the Commission and Observation Committee this morning when a report of the Government Reexamination of Mental Health for Children in Iceland was reviewed. This is not just so that mental - health services in Iceland are not okay. She's in a lot of trouble. Here at the council, we need to put our hands together across classes, make significant changes, and put ourselves under pressure to change our viewpoint in this regard. But we all know that this discrimination is not limited to children in our health - care system; it is, in general, a difference between people in our health care, whether they have a general health problem or a mental - health problem. Mental - health services are simply far inferior to other health services in the country. It's our fault, and that's what we need to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u3	A respectable president. A discussion of where we should build a new national hospital continues. Of course, we will continue the projects that have been aimed at and at the Land Hospital. There is no time to lose, for there are so many years and decades who have fallen asleep in us. It's something else. But we're supposed to think bigger. So I suggest that we both build and rebuild as much as possible at the Land Hospital and try to do it in the worst of our time and start making plans for hospitals that will be taking over LSH in the future. This is absolutely time - free, even wise, in building hard for the most important welfare stakes in this society, turning away from a track where we are second - rate and returning to the front. The present government has given health benefits, but the system is so far too bad that it is not enough. Me and the Icelanders are very interested, and we built the Land Hospital in 1930. We're going to be there again. Case number one, two and three now, all service to acute and emergency testing is under way as soon as possible. But we must think further as we do more. Here in this talk chair and in the media, members of Parliaments have spoken about. We're supposed to think about the future. We Icelanders must build another hospital within a few decades. This is a clear requirement for the public in the country who wants to spend more of the public money on health matters. The population has rarely been better or worse. Let's get together in this matter, stop muttering about it. Most indicate that there will be a society with age and future health care requirements that we need to meet carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u4	A respectable president. As others have done in this council hall, I would like to call attention to one aspect of the pay matter. I would like to consider the real interests involved. The real interests are that the public lost not just a lot of money but an incredible amount of money, so they run for billions of dollars. According to a letter written by the Bank of Banks to the National Bank of Bank, the National Bank comments on information given by other Member States in connection with the sale of a share of property in the City of Borg should be made upon the bank to seek their rights, if it seems necessary. You see, I think that's exactly what this is. I refer to an article published in the Morning Press by the Supreme Court Attorney Haukur Örn Birgisson. He points to regulations in negotiations, No. 7/1936, which in certain cases allows a review of the individual's business, even an invalidation; in other words, this contract can be invalidated and taken back. He points to a court case where the Supreme Court has pointed out that the value is far more than the price given can be reasoned that the negotiation was based on smiles or wrongs and can be invalidated on the basis of 36. It's a contract. I'm afraid the monarch is going to sue the Lands Bank, do it in the first place. I would also like to encourage the Bank Office, because she has the government's ownership, to have custody of the case, to appeal to court, and to seek all ways to recover this wealth. [[The president calls.]] Although the cost of judicial action can run at any million, it is small compared with the huge interests of the public in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u5	Mr. President. Economic improvement here in Iceland has been greater than that in many other countries who have experienced a crisis. Therefore, it should be welcomed and not underestimated the role of tourism in that economic recovery, i.e. the growing number of tourists coming here, both because of their powerful international tourism services, which started with a marketing campaign in their time, but also because of outside circumstances. Likely, the volcanic eruption in Eyjafjorda has served, not least as an advertising in Iceland, but as an obstacle to the arrival of people here. How sad, then, that many seem to view this trend as nothing much positive, even in a negative way! Here at the General Assembly, you even have considerable concern about the growth of tourism. But we need not worry. We need not worry if we have a clear view of how we were going to deal with governmental factors in building a natural environment for this immensely important work of the nation. This was the last assembly removed from the ideas of natural passes that I celebrated and opposed very much and thought were contrary to all our public rights ideas in the country. Then we discussed the need for work to create a parapolitic solidarity on how we should finance and prepare for tourism development. For example, there was a talk about an increase in the cost of beds, which is very low in Iceland. They discussed the need for division between the State and the local community. It was discussed that even during one part of the year, the remunerations needed to be met and, in turn, strengthen the international flight so that they could stay. Various ways came up to make it possible for a handsome structure to build up the tourism service. Instead, it became a way to provide funds for money, too late for them to be used, to the tourist building fund. We look forward to another summer in which we see an even greater number of tourists, and we do not yet know which government policy is the second one involved in the highest standard. Secretary last night, that we need to gather all our agents to the table. I'm just saying, how big a country do we live in if we're still in that place gathering all the parties to the table, that we're still not ready for a plan on this case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u6	A respectable president. I agree with the last speaker that we should not speak against the tourism service. ▪ When everyone looks in the same direction, it is likely that there will be danger. These words are quoted in an interesting article in the morning newspaper. There is an interview with Gunnar Gunnarsson, director of the Risk Management Board of Creditinfo, which makes it clear that many are betting on today's tourism. Hotels spring up like golf balls all over the country. Tourism-related service spreads like lice. Gunnar says that such shepherding may involve risks that must be kept in mind. When the market goes down one direction, we should stop. Before a collapse, the risk of borrowing foreign coins was related while making money in Icelandic dollars. Today, the risk is not least associated with huge growth and construction in tourism, although it may sound strange. For example, there is an enormous increase in hotels. All you have to do is take a little walk in the middle of the city to see what's happening. Tourists'increase is a cause for rejoicing, but what happens, and who will eventually take the account if the structure is bad? Prior to collapse, risk factors were insufficient. The same is true today. The head of the Risk Management Board of Creditinfo, for example, has to evaluate the effects of potential decrease in the number of tourists on local property prices. There's a risk, both in banks and in pension funds. There is good reason to agree with these words, those who work in travel, banks, pension funds, and others must stop. The red light will soon flash, if you keep going like this. Hopefully, people have learned something from what happened here in 2008. Let's not put all the eggs in the same basket.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u7	President. It has been given too long to survive the fear of seducing dominant elements, whether they are elements of the free market or of the State. This fear was made very clear in the report of the General Commission, and much was discussed after the collapse. Everything people had put their trust in to ensure that in this country an informed democratic community had failed, but extensive measures were decided to take to learn from the experience at different levels of our community. But where have we arrived on this journey? Where is this new Iceland that was supposed to rise from the ashes? It seems to me that we've reached almost the exact same place in so many areas as before a collapse. The warning lights flash, they flash, and I can't say I can't say anything. Yesterday, Ketill published Sigurjónsson, among other things, on his energy flame, by permission of Presidential Presidents: ▪ It was interesting that in the middle of 2014, I was contacted by an experienced executive in one of the largest financial companies. And he told me that the head of North Africa is calling the company's manager and complaining about their cooperation with me. Of course, it seemed quite remarkable to me, and it's quite strange that a business in a town is interfering with individuals in this way. It was in June of 2015 that one of the bank directors in the Icelandic banking system contacted me. And I warned me that North World was preparing a campaign against my language. And would be trying to hire public links to the project. And the person added these pleasant words: ◯ They intend to destroy you in the first place. That too was fascinating to hear. So in effect, I confirmed that I was publishing information that the industry does not want the public to know about. Here, too, is a reminder of the deception that took place in 2009, showing how powerful the propaganda of the industry is. But now it was obvious that I had become a well of information, which the industry wanted to choke. A respectable president. The addition of major industrial companies to professional manures that they do not like today should not be tolerated. I challenge members of Congress to promote the possibility that there will be a society where open discussion will be at peace. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u8	President. I have to admit that I lost my focus in a discussion about the Land hospital earlier at this meeting. What many thought was perhaps a traditional rush on the part of prime minister, as he is now known, to place one another in turmoil with their careers, it seems that this is not the case in this land hospital. This has been observed by a senator of the House of forwarders yesterday that this matter had been discussed in the Congress of the Agency, i.e. to cancel a new county hospital on the Ring Road and to build it somewhere else, and there would be full solidarity in the council. In this matter, the United States congregation was well behind their prime minister. In fact, it has gone so far that the prime minister has associated himself with a foreign architectural office who claims to be ready to move on to the island and to help him design a new hospital somewhere. This has not been discussed in the House of Independence in any other way, if it is, the highest. A minister of health I'm just going to believe here and now, that yesterday we were asked to continue the decisions made and the law was passed at the General Assembly on the construction of the Hospital. Then comes a member of the Independence Party just now and suggests that two hospitals will be built. Some sort of compromise. Let's build something smart by Ring Lane, finish something there, then build somewhere else. It has been observed in the highest range. Health Minister that this matter has not been discussed in the government, as important as it is today. There are examples of the consequences of such cases when important matters are not discussed in the government on the part of prime minister. Why do you ask yourself, " Has there been any compromise? ' It was a government meeting today. Have there been any compromises in building two hospitals? One at the Ring Course and one of the Tenets' Choices? What kind of nonsense is this getting to be, you respectable President? This roundabout with the Land Hospital and the health system in the country is unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] I'll agree with the highest. A health minister who said in the media this morning, this is unacceptable, and this is a threat to the health system in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u9	A respectable president. I would like to correct misunderstandings that often arise when a specific proposal is discussed, which is that ministers do not also sit as members of the council. This is often confused with another phenomenon, which is when ministers are not elected representatives over their heads. This is often raised in discussions about Pirata's approved policy regarding the relations of Ministers and Generals, which states that Piratar is not a member of a government where Ministers also sit as members of Congress. The criticism has been shown in conversation, even with other members of Congress, and certainly in public discussion that they do not know who will be ministers. I think it's important to be absolutely clear that the proposal does not involve that members of Congress should not be ministers, just that they must not be ministers and members of Congress at the same time. So if a senator was to be a minister, he would have to resign from Congress and receive a replacement. That's what it's all about. The idea is not about removing all democratic authority from the government. According to this, it's nice to talk about it and even ideas that some people think are ideals that go even further in the separation of the European Commission and the legislature; ideas that I think very important that we talk about and with the goal of making changes, because the cohesion of the legislation of the legislature and the Commission in Iceland is not good enough. While there is no magic solution to all the problems, ministers need to resign while ministers are still ministers, it would certainly be a step in the right direction and would likely, I believe and overwhelmingly believe more of Porta's parts, change into at least a so - called pantheonism, or the culture that deals with members of the council with the government. I count all the discussions of that being very important and very important so that we may be able to improve the democracy of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u10	Mr. President. The failure of the government in building structures in the country is complete, as could be heard from a travel minister in the Castlight yesterday. There is a 40% increase in the number of tourists in the country ahead. This article has won hundreds of billions of dollars. In the last two years, the cost of tourism has increased by 100 billion. Governments have shown complete complacency in my opinion and lack of understanding regarding the funding of infrastructure and transport in the general part of the country. Where's the transport plan? How long should we wait for a transportation program? She won't get hurt. Is it not one of the tools we need to build up the wood? Last night in the Castelight, the highest point was made. Minister only has other ministers when asked questions on various projects. The secretary of travel referred to the secretary of finance for the payment of tourists. Regarding the area around Goldphoss, environmental ministers were referred. The subject was then referred to as a private person regarding, for example, attempted fun and Geysi. Is that okay? It is absolutely unannounced that the government and secretary of three years of travel have not yet come to terms with how to charge tourists for their infrastructure and payment, using the funds to build up good structures in the country. There is not yet a conclusion on how to work with tourism itself and rural areas in the country into the infrastructure. These excuses are not acceptable at the highest. Three years after he took that office, a minister of travel. The only thing that could be proud of in this interview was the management center of tourism, yet another organization that no one knows what to do. [[The president calls.]] You can't shovel in tourists indefinitely without the sight and image of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u11	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, where she spoke a little earlier about the effects of tourists'growth on the infrastructure. I must agree that the government has not done its best when it comes to funding the structure needed to receive all these tourists. News reports this morning that 48% more foreign tourists had been seriously injured or died in traffic accidents in Iceland compared to the previous year. This was a 68% increase in 2015 compared to the previous five years. There are a lot of things we have to fix here, including... Elimination of single bridges, bringing down well the road, and making the environment more dangerous to tourists. We do not have to look far beyond our schedule to find ways to finance this situation. We have a merit tax. For example, foreign tourists pay him from a hotel elevation, which is now a lower tax step. It could be raised to a higher level of tax. It's mostly a tourist who uses hotel lodging and room space. You can start putting a merit extra tax on a fishing permit. Likewise, there is no value tax from sporting events or concerts, so there are potential costs. In addition, reimbursement of cost tax to foreign tourists can be reduced from 15% to 12◯13% depending on how it is conducted. We would immediately gain more money into a government fund that had come directly from tourists. It's about doing things properly and not looking far over a dose.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u12	A respectable president. The newest part of February was the warmest weather record ever to begin with the fifth month in a row that had a heat record. These figures apply to the earth. Looking only to the Arctic Circle, warming is even greater. According to one expert, this is most likely the most warm experience in these areas over the last thousand years. Climate change from man is a fact, and I don't think anybody's gonna argue about it anymore, at least people aren't much to say it out loud. This is so gravely serious that we simply cannot push the problem ahead. There are very many things that each of us can do and that we can do as a nation, that we are not now talking about the worldwide community, but perhaps it is primarily about each one's self - examination. One thing I could mention is wasting less food. We're not really supposed to be wasting food. Something else that's been a little in the discussion is plastic bottles. In Iceland we are even selling water in plastic bottles and drinking water from plastic bottles. We got clean and good water all over the country, right out of the tap. Then there's a trick about selling water to innocent tourists on the grounds that the water here isn't good enough. I think it's very important that we get that information clearly and clearly to our newcomers, who have become quite numerous here, we just drink water out of the tap. I can even see a business opportunity in this. If I wasn't a member of the council, I would design some very cool bottle that would keep the hot and cold that tourists would buy at their arrival in the country and carry on the trip and fill it here and there. I also think that when we're at meetings and conferences, we should not always have these bottles of water on our tables, but we should have pitchers and glasses. [[The president calls.]] These may not be big things, but they are very simple and something we can start with today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u13	Mr. President. Five years have passed since the beginning of the war in Syria. As always, power - hungry leaders value the lives of the common people in vain for the terrible suffering they bring upon the innocent. As always, the most vulnerable is the suffering. War is not merely destroying children's lives. They poison their souls and rob them of opportunities for maturity and education, thus destroying the future of the entire nation. All children in the world are our children, and we all have responsibility. No moral person would want to avoid that. Politicians who thrive on low, prejudice, divisions, and hatred are at the greatest threat to peace and life and to the quality of life. They bring disaster, violence, and death to communities and families and deprive children of childhood and the future. Let us not forget Hitler, Stalín, Maó, and the other dictators of evil. Let us show the respect of their innocent victims by learning from history, for they are shining in the air. Politicians who thrive on narrow - minded prejudices are being successful in threatening too many people to support them. Donald Trump, U.S.A., and the support of Frauke Petry Groups in Germany, are well illustrated by the grim currents. The only antidote to evil is humanity. Mr. President. As no missionary, I agree with those who claim that their religion is more important than the faith or atheism of others. But I think that the point of the matter has been well expressed by the many people in this country who say most of them are important when he said, by permission of a president: "All things, therefore, that you want men to do to you, you also must likewise do to them. He said, "All that you did to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. Mr. President. It's not enough to confess. We too need to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u14	A respectable president. It seems to have become a matter of independentness and a major problem. It seems that the prime minister has already placed a footprint in his computer and seems to spend a little bit of time designing on his own all kinds of buildings and houses and trying to sell to others that these are wise drawings and reasonable planning. V.E.G. The prime minister has already introduced his designs on hospital buildings in the Top Sea Search and now recent hospital construction projects in the Waffles. I also have a foot fart on my computer, and I can do well here with all kinds of drawings, where I declare that it would be wise to have the construction at the Bassa sitea, in the Canal Valley, in the Washingoon, or anywhere. It's no big deal -- but I'm coming up here to draw attention to the fact that we're not doing this in politics. We don't make important decisions like this in politics. In this case, it has been reviewed for 15 years where the hospital should be. There have been at least four very careful analysis of the facility's best structure. In all these reports, data have been provided on a number of factors in which the hospital will be the best place and built up by the Ring Road. And now politicians and others must give up on all their motivation to be the ◯besszerzerer in this process and simply admit that the analysis has taken place because the interest is big. Hospital housing has an emergency. I've got to get this over with. Now we need to stop questioning this process and start, as is actually the sea, a new hospital building on the Ringtrack, and then arrange it to the highest level. Prime Minister gets another program on his computer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u15	President. There was hope for a tremendous amount of attention when the police soon informed us about the human room in the Viking area. It has now been observed, and Castlight reported yesterday that the Icelandic state and the system around these matters made the entire trial worse, for victims of the human hall had to return to their superiors and tormentors, for the Ministry and the entire supporting system had to fail completely. This is so lame, I can't get my hands on this. How can we deal with such people? How can we keep free from interference and delay send it back into slavery? I call for responsibility in this case, and I want to know who in the company is going to take it. But I come up here to discuss the activities of the council. On the agenda there is a pact proposal from the Industrial Minister for policy in new investors. We're in a bright future and very disappointed in her. For one thing, it is vague and vague. It does not suggest goals and goals. The reviewers understand it very differently than most of the material set up to all old categories, independent category, forward category, Union and VG, makes sense to the policy that is to support the energy-efficient industry above others, such enterprises should be at stake particularly in excess of other enterprises. These groups go out of their way to see that their policies do not cover the whole country. They completely excluded the capital area, that is the only area that should not be in this new investor policy. In the short future, we stress the importance of strengthening the entire environment to new investors, which is to be done by general means. Some people are not to be liked, but not to others. The coincidence is that there is always someone else who pays and there are other companies and taxpayers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u16	V.E.G. President. I'm forced to say goodbye to this team, President's conference board, to make very serious comments to the highest possible response. The secretary of finance to my 12 questions in the inquiry for a written answer I proposed on January 26, 2000. which discussed sales policy on the property of the Bank of Lands at Paying. Among other things, I asked about the decision of the Lands Bank. Then, just before the end of a council meeting yesterday, there was an answer that I find completely unmistakably unacceptable and below all the caves. After this long period and delay of the Ministry, the answer is given to my questions about the 12 books on Bank County and other laws, and then I receive two copies of them, on the other hand, a document on some bank office's letter to the financial and economic minister, and then there are several pages on the Lands Bank. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I must make very serious comments to this and direct it to the president that my right as a senator, both under the Constitution and by the Congress, will be respected and this answer or the supposed answer, will be sent to the secretary of finance and required to have an answer to my questions answered. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u17	A respectable president. In writing to the State Bank Office, I have requested that all the relevant issues of the matter be brought to light and be enlightened. Now we have the bank office's reaction and we're waiting for a response to the government of the Lands Bank. I think the main point of this case, which I find normal, and I have a clear understanding that the Senator wants information on, is that the information is presented. I don't think anyone can conceal the thought that I've done my utmost to get information about the case by what I've already done to myself, but the senator must be careful not to make himself the focus of the matter and some particular questions, how they're told, etc. Is it not the main issue that all things will be brought to light regarding this particular matter? [[The president calls.]] Or it is the exact wording of questions. A senator who has become the main subject? Let's not turn this case completely upside down. The case is still in my mind, and I laugh, like a skunk. A senator, waiting for a final answer from the bank's bank council to find out more about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u18	President. I object that the person who asked the questions and received a photocopyed answer, answers that can be found on the web, rather than that the secretary of finance answers the questions, or at least by any explanation he is trying to make here in response - a minister is not to respond that way. How on earth did the Minister think of having it sent to the council yesterday as it was? After a complaint that answers have not been received for two months, some photocopies are thrown at the council. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I object to these tactics of the minister, but, like him, I'm excited to see what comes out of the opinion of Payun and to trust that he will follow through as he has a duty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u19	Mr. President. I'm not surprised. A senator is unhappy with the answers he receives from the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. I can agree with that. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir said earlier. If the highest. Just then, a minister wanted to present what he said from a talk chair was to write it as an answer or to contact him. A senator tells him that he is not ready to answer those simple questions that are clearly expressed. Of course, the answers to them need to come to us. We should not have to read them from reports, whether from the Bank or from the Bank Office. V.E.G. A minister should answer questions the senator has for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u20	Mr. President. I take my heart to the criticism presented here. It's a matter of time. A senator was submitted until the end of January. After seven weeks of waiting, it is quickly distributed just before the end of a meeting yesterday with three paragraphs plus two copies of public literature. These three paragraphs, which are due to be answered to a disunited 12th General's inquiry, discuss a formal form of communication, as any person can read from the government's official websites. But there were no material answers to prices, lawsuits, and so forth. This does not help open discussion, a respectable president. Of course, this is not in the spirit of transparency. No other conclusion can be drawn that the minister is afraid to give these answers publicly and to discuss them with the council. [[The president calls.]] But, of course, this is completely unacceptable by references to the Constitution's legal right to demand an answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u21	A respectable president. You were shocked to see the answers as they were. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller got his questions. He was sent two copies of public documents, as presented here. What is the legal right of members of Congress, and why is he not protected by the president of the council? Why do they let it through here, so inexplicable? Then, a respectable president, it only gets worse when it's the highest level. The minister of finance comes up here trying to justify this act and says that the senator must not let the matter be centered on himself. A respectable president. He is asking for answers to completely normal questions about matters that need to be explained. I thought it was the will of the government and the Minister who sent these two photocopies to inform on this matter. Why, then, is this not done or made plain why the senator is not answered? It's just rude. And how he gets answers from the Minister, it's not acceptable, and the President is supposed to take the stand for members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u22	V.E.G. President. To the public, the city's pay matter centers on the issue of gross corruption, and it involves the rich financial interests of the State. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller raises 12 questions to the secretary of finance. The secretary of finance answers letters that are truly relevant but that do not answer the questions directly and then warn against the problem. A senator begins to be self - centered or to demand answers to these questions. That's what the Minister's queries are about, Mr. President. Mr. President should make sure that they are answered, not thrown into us as such. Hv. One senator asked: "Where and when were the property shares of the Lands Bank in Borging Corp? " and Valior Corp. Advertised for sale? [[The president calls.]] Such a direct question, along with 11 others, cannot be complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u23	President. Regarding what was mentioned at the last part of the talk, read one question - if you study the answer and the accompanying copy of it, you will find the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u24	Come in...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u25	The object was not - if only I could continue without the last speaker being in contact with me here - advertised for sale. This is evident in your answer, as you can see if they are not in a rage not to read the answer. What we have now is that I have been asked as a minister to insist that everything that has to do with the bank's sale will be brought forth and enlightened. Senators have been running the Commission and the executives at a financial committee meeting and have been able to trace the intestines through all the information available and relate to the points asked here. [[The president calls.]] Now, stop this play, please. Senators, who come up here and pretend they're trying to hide this matter. The opposite is true. Everything has been asked to be brought forward and the matter is still under way. [[The president calls.]] Then read the data because it contains the information that appears to be searching for answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u26	A respectable president. I think those who've been listening to what's happened. Councilmen of the U.S. government conclude that there is a secret cover over this matter. It's the other way around. Who have taken the lead in informing about all that needs to be explained in this matter? Yes, it is. Councilmen on the budget board and the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Kristján Möller to investigate what is taking place at the scene. The budget board. Exactly what is stated in the answer sheds light on all of this. A senator is asking. In case of a moment. A senator needs some more information. He's a senator for the Continental at the moment. It's a legal committee. The putting up here in this way is below all the caves. If any information was missing, we regularly found with the Bank County at the moment. A legal committee to inform this matter. [[The president calls.]] It's good if you're good. Group members want to be with us on that journey. We're celebrating.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u27	President. It is clear that opinions vary greatly whether information is appropriate and acceptable. Senators often feel that they have not received answers to their inquiries, that is nothing new at all. When you get the answers to questions, it is often obvious that you are not making the most of an effort to answer questions. I think it's very important that the senator who wants answers and experiences that he hasn't received the proper answers will have just the answers he needs. I also suggest that if there are meetings on this matter on the budget and other committees, they are always open and available to all, whether it is members of Congress, the public or the journalists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u28	V.E.G. President. First, I would like to regret that when a person is criticized, he reacts in a rage. But I'm coming up here, Mr. President, to make the most of it. The president will make sure that the members of Congress are asked to the highest level. Minister, please respond. When we present certain requests, of course, to answer them but not to provide material where the answer can be read through analysis of its contents. The purpose of the inquiry is to answer the straight questions. Then it is exemplary when it is the highest. Ministers publish letters - in fact, they were public letters. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller could approach and have accessed them in other ways - and reports. I'm sure that's a problem. [[The president calls.]] I'm right, top dog. President: You want to protect our interests here, so we can go to the highest level. Ministers cannot avoid answering our questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u29	Mr. President. Answers to the highest. Ministers are not material. Pointing to conferences and letters is not the answer to the query. It is an excellent substance to support material answers, if available, but it is not in this case. To refer to discussions that take place on committee committees is not acceptable but because this is not a substitute for a meeting. If the council would like to address the 63 members of the council, it is not possible to refer the matter to a certain committee. The Parliament should be able to discuss matters outside the committee. This paid case is growing so that people have strong opinions in the community and here at the council. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this matter should also be discussed in an open field in the Assembly Hall. I agree, Mr. Honorable President, they're here to protect members of Congress on finding answers to questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u30	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what to do. Senators are asking for this. That must be a reasonable requirement. Congress officials are observing what is going on at the council. [[The point is, it can't be done.]] Here we go. A senator who says: "The goal is to find trouble. The budget is open to everyone. They were all open. Hv. Says members of the Parliament: There is no answer. There was a report from the National Bank that answered the questions asked by the Bank Office on 126 pages. I used to run through some questions. Senator. All I could see was that this was all in the report. Is it reasonable to expect that we do not need to know what is going on at the council? Hv. This case has been investigated by a legal committee. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has taken care of all the details in this matter. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Senators, pretending they don't know about it and just say, "I don't get what I want right now. It's not exactly the minimum to the dog. Councilmen only watch what's going on. A general? [[The president calls.]] These meetings, a respectable president, are wide open. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u31	V.E.G. President. I prefer to forgive the highest. The financial minister here what he says, that I should stop making this matter about myself, or that I have not been angry at reading the answer, or that we senators in the hall should stop this play. I do it because I've felt the highest. Secretary of finance, in contrast with other advisers, often fulfills their duties to us members of Congress, including ministers. But I'm directly calling from the President if I can't trust that this complete, incomplete answer will be sent back to the secretary of finance, asking him to answer his inquiries for a team without answering two of the photocopies I could see on the web yesterday. That's no answer. This is not welcome. I suspect that this is a list of unpleasant answers to these questions. [[The president calls.]] I also remind you that my question for oral reply has not been made and is still postponed, and it has now been five weeks beyond. I ask for an order before this discussion is over. [[The president calls.]] I will not accept that answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u32	The president has not examined this answer, so he intends to give himself some time to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u33	Mr. President. We now vote for this bill. I'd like to use this opportunity and thank a welfare committee for a very well-worked job when we discussed the bill, and most important of all, I would like to thank the prominent speaker of the case, who was still aggressor. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir. As a result of a lack of full birthworm, a compromise was immediately formed, and there is a longer half of it. It doesn't seem to be a big deal, but it's a big thing and it's gonna make many people happy in the community. I'd like to finally accept this bill for those parents who have been through the intense experience of having a dead baby, and especially for those couples, the Einar Árni and Guðmunda Guðlaug's eyes, who started this after their daughter Anna Lísa was still pregnant. Mr. President. Thank you for the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u34	Mr. President. This year 27 years have passed since the United Nations Convention on Children's Rights, the Children's Law, as it is most commonly mentioned, was submitted to the United Nations General Assembly for signing and validation by the United Nations. Almost every state of the world has validated this important human rights contract. The child - covenant proved to be a turning point in the battle for the rights of children. The children's covenant was validated by the United States in 1992 and is now a member of Icelandic legislation, legally registered here on February 20, 2013. One of the main works of the government after validation and even more after the legal agreement was introduced to the covenant and its contents to children and especially to adults. Many feel that this has not been successful. The suggestions we make, advocates of the children at council, we believe that the matter of childhood is fundamental to the work of the school community, making children aware of their rights, as well as their responsibilities and duties toward their citizens. I'd also like to finally thank the General and Education Committee for the well-work of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u35	V.E.G. President. I come up here to express the support of this council decree and to thank you. A senator who had brought her along with other spokesmen of the children of the council. I also want to thank him for the bill we agreed on earlier. I also wanted to come up here to say that I think there are some precedents in Iceland's Senate that a member of the government has two cases adopted on the same day. I wish. paritaprevir Congratulations on that stage, Páll Valur Björnsson, and thank him for protecting the interests of children in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u36	A respectable president. Yes, I truly agree and say hello. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son on the importance of this matter. As of this day, at the General Assembly, it has been decided that day will be dedicated to teaching children about their human rights. This is very historical because it is the first legal case of a parapolitic group on the issues of children and young people who have been employed at the Council for one year, which goes through this council. I congratulate Páll Valur and others of this particular group, and I believe this also leads to the beginning that the Council makes the affairs of children and young people of this country especially acceptable and effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u37	President. First, I want to commend and thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for very poor work on the subject of children at the General Assembly, both inside and outside the council. I'm glad we're going to accept this council resolution. I remember that years ago, in 1996 or 1997, I established a Web site for the Children's Agent, the covenant of children. I know him well, but unfortunately, there are too many young people who do not know him. Now I challenge all members of the council who have children or grandchildren to spend the day reading the baby covenant for their children in their lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u38	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 161/2002, about a financial firm. This is part of the overall re-examination of financial market legislation taken place in this country since the collapse of the financial system in the fall of 2008. The bill is prepared at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, with the help of a Committee appointed to review Icelandic legislation on the basis of new international financial policies, in particular the European Union CRD IV/CRR Protocol. With law No. 57/2015, adopted at the last legislation panel, took the first step in adapting Icelandic legislation to the European Union's new law on banking and new Basel III standard. This bill takes a second step toward implementing the next act of the European legislation and ensuring that it is in accordance with legislation on the European Union and the European Union's internal market. The main objective of the principle is to improve financial development in order to meet losses in business without official or financial and financial support and to ensure financial stability. All the bill modifications are based on the CRD IV/CRR protocol, with the exception of two. These changes are due to the assessment of the World Cash Fund on the link between the FEC and the Basel Committee's nuclear policy on effective banking control. The bill suggests, among other things, changes to the rules of the financial institutions, probe and assessment procedures and the work of the job of the stock market. There is also a new rule on scale ratios, but the goal of the rule is to reduce bank debt. The terms of the definition have also been revised in the context of the changes proposed in the bill and there are new terms or new definitions of terms, such as the Types of terms, such as the Types of the Treaty, ◯veltation, even the ownership of a share, even the terms of the cross. The aim of the changes proposed to the rules of the money itself is not only to increase the amount of money that is to be spent on finance but also to consider the quality of it. The vocabulary of the law has taken a full reexamination with the bill. A respectable president. I shall now turn to the key elements of the bill in a few words. The current law has 84th degree. The definition of the individual budget, capital, risk base, capital and information sources is required. That's 85 degrees. The law for the deduction of your own money. The bill suggests that in place of these two rules, eight articles will be taken in a much more precise way by their own money and financial savings. It is then suggested that there be a special law in which information should be received regarding your own money, etc. The bill suggests that the concept of the use that has been used in terms of the personal assets that make up a financial base will be removed. Thus it is suggested that neither personal factor A nor B be mentioned but also factor 1 and factor 2 and also suggested that as many of the songs of the law address certain aspects of their own money. In addition, there are rules that apply to the general requirements for personal capital, risk base, score book and minimum requirements for qualified stock companies who have limited duties or financial institutions. The regulations of the bill also include the different types of financial companies and are the requirements for their own resources, depending on the types of financial companies. In this way they are required to lend loans and stock companies to their own resources and to meet the conditions of the law. On the other hand, the requirements for stock companies - which have limited duties and businesses of stocks - are set up to meet the requirements of the law. Similarly, the calculation of the risk database of financial companies varies according to different types of financial companies, i.e. Depending on the financial value of credit agencies or stock companies. The bill suggests that there will be detailed requirements for these autochems, for the deduction process. With these conditions and the requirements for repairs that can be considered to be the basis for financial resources, financial resources will be increased. It is then suggested that the regulations for internal assessment procedures for financial companies and the Rapporteur's probe and assessment procedures be adopted into the law. The internal assessment processes and the exploratory and assessments process of the Rapporteur belong to the so-called support 2 presented in the Base II standard. These processes are to contribute to a stronger link between financial risk policy, its risk management, mild action, and its own financial resources. The agreed rules are found in part in current regulations of 84th and 85th. It's the law and the regulations established by the SEC. However, the criticism has been found that the process is blurred and blurred, but based on this process, the SEC has far - reaching authority to make certain demands, e.g. about increased property binding. By referring to this process in the law, there is greater clarity and transparency in the application of the laws, which will clarify the sources of the SEC and the duties of financial companies according to the law. The excessive debt of financial companies was one of the factors that are believed to have led to the global financial crisis. At the height of the financial crisis, financial companies developed pressure to reduce debt, which contributed to a further reduction in property prices. When financial companies dropped debt, a system hazard increased, leading to further losses in their operations. The financial resources of the enterprises are summed up and thus funded by a substantial negative result to the economy of many countries. The purpose of a new rule proposed in the bill on the so-called scale is to prevent or reduce the likelihood that this can happen repeatedly. The rule places the obligation of financial companies to meet at any given time a requirement for the scale of scale. In terms of scale ratios, too much debt is avoided within the financial system, thereby reducing the risk of adverse economic and economic events when circumstances require a reduction in the level of debt. A scale of scale ratio also includes additional protection in order to strengthen the rules for self-calculation. V.E.G. President. The bill also contains a number of other adjustments and new indicators. In this way, there are several changes to the work of the stock market and the stock market. The concept of the law is made in accordance with the law of bond exchange. It is then suggested that a special employment permit be submitted as a stock service, but instead such enterprises will be made up of a special type of stocks that carry limited duties. It is suggested that the rules for smaller stock companies be simplified, including the precautions required for these enterprises, e.g. With regard to their own money, the balance of hedges, and the need for cash. In my opinion, these changes will have a positive effect on the less financial businesses of this country and the legalisation of the environment reduces all financial enterprises under the same hat regardless of their size, function, or system risk. The World Bank Department recently carried out an estimate of the activities of the FEC, monitoring warrants and financial legislation in this country in harmony with the Basel Committee's core principles of effective banking. With a bill that became the law No. 57/2015, the change in financial law, was in part responding to indications that came out of this assessment at which point an arm length rule on the business of a business enterprise was set up. This bill has met one of the indications that came out of this assessment, i.e. to make further arrangements so that national legislation will be more consistent with the 20th principle of the principles of principles required for business relations. These recommendations are failed by specifying an IAS 24 which is an international accounting standard. The changes were made to two legal requirements relating to loans to linked parties and FMEs as a result of such a business which is in accordance with a new definition. In addition, I'm going to mention a few things that also appear on the bill: 1st 1st par. a law on definition has virtually accepted a complete review. 2. There's been some changes in 14th paragraph. The law on the establishment of financial companies. It is suggested that the law be divided into twos, and another story about business banks and savings, and the other about smaller financial companies, including stock markets and business companies of stock markets. This is to simplify the principle. 3. It is suggested that the Biesel II standard of information be included in a specific provision, i.e. ofage 18. The law. On the basis of the directive, FMEs are allowed to determine the frequency of information sources of a financial enterprise, including when, where, and what information to inform a financial company. 4. Changes are made in the work permissions of your business partner's stock funds. 5. The 29th chapter changes are made. b, d and e reporting on stocks and loans risking stocks so that a minister is authorized to adopt new European regulations on the stock market. If this bill is approved, most of the words in accordance with the Basel III standard and the CRD IV/CRR Protocol will be expressed by Icelandic law. It remains only after reviewing financial law taking into account the new branch and services rules between border and cohesion monitoring taking into account the CRD IV/CRR protocol, which is already under way at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The bill is, in fact, almost entirely based on the regulations of this principle, but it has not yet become part of the EEA Convention. Although the Act has not been adopted in the EEA Convention, it is the government's will that Icelandic law and regulations in this field reflect the rules of neighboring countries of Iceland. This aims to increase trust in the Icelandic financial market. It may be that the Norwegians, who are in the same position as we are and who have already adopted the rule in their legislation. The reason the work has not become part of the EEA Convention is new development of financial monitoring in the European Union that does not comply with Iceland and Norway's constitutions without adaptation. That part, in itself, is beyond this. The CRD IV/CRR arrangement includes provisions referred to in the European Economic Control Institutes of the European Union. It should be noted, however, that the requirements referred to in the EU institutions are adopted, not in Icelandic legislation by this bill, but only by the content of the Regulation. What we're doing is that we're implementing the principles and adapting us to the fact that the rule work has not fully become part of the EEA or the Convention, but it does not change our view that we should take up the material changes on this land to ensure consistent rules to the extent possible according to the circumstances. The requirements referred to in the European monitoring centres will be waiting for events where the requested actions have been adapted to the EEA Convention and its structure to two supporting monitoring systems. In total, the bill is intended to improve the development of financial enterprises in this country so that they will be expelled effectively and effectively and by attempting to prevent the repeated events that took place here in 2008. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u39	Mr. President. Many important bills have the highest priority. Secretary of finance is working to prevent the 2008 breakthrough from repeating itself, but I think it's the most important thing to do. This is a very good bill, even though I can make comments to some strange expressions found there. I could actually use this opportunity and ask the highest possible question. Secretary of finance, for example, when he intends to offer a bill about what he mentioned here specifically, adapting Iceland to the surveillance centres on the basis of the two-founding system. This was not shown in his case, but it is a key point anyway. Also, I like to follow my questions from last year on about when to expect the projections to come too. I'm gonna make it wait. I'd like to ask the Minister about the following. I think it's the highest. A minister is here very well, and together, if the council and the European Commission were to be successful in building limits within the system in order to prevent the 2008 events from repeating themselves. By the time this is gone, we'll have started at least two-thirds in Basel III, and hence the 2013 Regulation and directive based on it. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister: Once we've taken the last dose of this, it seems to me that nothing, in fact, remains on the part of the European Commission and the Lawgiver to establish further laws. I'd like to ask him about one thing, for I'm still the only danger I'm facing, which is a waxing trade. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he believes that some kind of legal instrument is needed or that further authority must be given to the Office to act on it if necessary. [[The president calls.]] We know that it was the trade that produced quite a bit of the fuel that came to the fire in 2008. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u40	A respectable president. I'm gonna come in on those points as a reason. A senator rolled up here. Thank you for a great deal about legislation improving the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u41	Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u42	First of all, the induction of a change in order of action was in terms of observational institutions. It's a case that's still in progress, it's taken a long time. It has changed from being an unprovable requirement for the European Union that we submit to the no-part organisation in which we are not involved to understand that it is not only in opposition to the EFTA constitution but also a violation of the fundamental factors of the cooperation established by the EEA Convention, i.e. The two-part system. It has been since the European Union's recognition of this point of view how we can build the monitoring factor on a two-part network. I believe there are solutions that we can resolve in the coming months. Just a little bit of a whistle about a informant. There's a matter we're working on at the Ministry. Still, it has had to be replaced by something bigger than what is being done. I believe in the growing trade that it is inevitable for the government to react to the danger we face because of the possibility of a growth trade and that it will need to change the law, the rules of the event, but I'm going to let it follow that although it may be possible to be useful, it cannot be expected that it will solve that problem entirely. [[The president calls.]] In my mind, however, doing what can be done is absolutely necessary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u43	Mr. President. I want it to be directed to the highest. Secretary of finance that he is not content just with what he needs to do. Ármannsson That's why we have more information on how to adapt to the two pillars because we have more information on this than we do at the highest level. The minister of finance seems to have in this answer, and we have received it on the Foreign Affairs Committee. It's on a nice roleum like the ultimate. Minister said. That's what I'm celebrating at the highest. Minister to make it perfectly clear that he views the growth trade as a threat to our financial future. In other words, he clearly says that the law needs to be changed so that we can get rid of it. In 2008, they were the source of the problems that fell upon us. It's absolutely important that we handle these matters. It's not enough to get to the top. Ministers come and say that what needs to be done must be done. Well, we can agree on that. But this is happening right now. According to recent news reports, such trade has increased, and to a degree, some 70,490 billion. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, it's the highest. With the help of the Federal Bank, a minister is going to be rubbing out 230 billion, which is the rest of this trade from the previous decade. The problem is there, it is urgent, and we must approach it in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u44	Mr. President. What I meant in my reply was that I believe that laws and rules can be useful here. I believe we should set rules to the extent that they will do it. There are other things to look forward to. For example, we cannot assume in the future that despite such rules, this problem will not look at us or face us if we have interest between Iceland and other countries too rich. There is much you can do to get Iceland's interest level down. If you act in a way in Iceland that interest always comes up, you're calling this problem. It doesn't matter if humans have built any tools or tools to deal with any of the problems. People are not dealing with the root cause of the problem, which is too high to grow. There's a lot of stuff coming in, the relationship and the conversation with the labour market responsible for state policy, etc. [[The president calls.]] There are things that can bring up the interest level in Iceland down and on their own without rules and laws taking over the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u45	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of his history. In fact, I was in a region similar to what I saw. A senator before me who didn't want to ask me specifically about the informants. But I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who said that the matter was being handled but determined on the basis of this: Is there any particular interest in the implementation of the directive, as regards the lighting? Are we expecting that we may be able to complete this issue of this council? This indicates that the matter will be submitted before the end of this council. Is that a matter of particular opinion? In the first phase of the establishment of Basel III, did it. Economic and business committee changes to proposals that were then discussed. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there will be any further changes in this bill, whether it is being worked, or if the solution the Council agreed on there will be passed on. Third, please. The subject discussed here, i.e. A two - supporting system is interesting, and we've been allowed to monitor how it's happened. Is there a minister inside what the next step in this matter is on the European scene and on the other hand, EFTA? Is it in place that we can begin to determine when a solution is available, or is there still a transfer of ideas to get a final solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u46	Madam President. I had a meeting with the prime and financial secretary of the first month as we discussed the importance of settling these issues. So I studied the situation. That's right. Skarphéðinsson But last time I asked we had not received a final answer on the part of the Commission whether the suggestions that the EFTA countries have agreed on were agreed and could become a basis for paying the case. Still, I hope that this will happen and hopefully as soon as possible. If circumstances permit, I will present this case in the spring council. I felt as a result of my visit to Liechtenstein that all efforts are being made to eliminate barriers to man's having what was sometimes called the human language of the European banking pass, since they in the country think that they are strange to be at a higher level of access to Europe for financial activity than their neighbors in Switzerland, who are not participants in the local markets. With the informant thing, I don't know there's anything special there. This matter has simply been discussed in a group of people, and it's being done in the Ministry. I can see that bill being born this year. There is no plan for changes in bank booths. That matter was relatively recent in discussion here at the council. I think the next big step is to finish that case. For what is involved in the regular work and in the bank cases in general, we are afterward dealing with things that are related to the recent government's holding on finance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u47	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It's good to hear that story about the two-part system. Of course, you would have chosen to have gone even faster, so all this development has been in the right and positive direction, and it should be welcomed. I'd like to finally ask the highest. Minister on matters not directly relevant to this bill. I've been asking the Ministry's representatives about the opinion of potential separation from business and investment banks, because of the highest degree. Minister has generalized the bank case. We have received the answers that the case was certainly in the Ministry, of course, we also have a suggestion for the council. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is the matter a real examination by the Ministry? Tells you the highest. A minister would consider taking the steps that have been under extensive discussion in both Europe and the west of the ocean?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u48	Madam President. On the other hand, in terms of investment banking and what we call business banking, I would like to say that as I appreciate the situation, everyone agrees that we need to protect the risk of man's damaging the risk between the two stings of banking in Iceland. It's an occasion for a special discussion, but I would say, in a very harsh way, that there are two schools on this point; on the one hand, one who says, "It's the best thing to do with a simple solution and to split the business into two different companies that care about each other. " However, the person says: This risk can be prevented by avoiding contamination by means of specific measures and regulations that prevent this from happening. It also matters how a person handles terms, what falls under the term investment banking, because many of the things that have been taken under that term in discussions about these matters are not personal investment banking but simply investments that resemble venture funds and that in themselves have nothing to do with conventional banking activities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Yes, I have this case for serious thought, and I'm inclined to try to figure out a solution that will keep the financial companies from breaking in half.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u49	A respectable president. I only want a chance to ask the highest. A minister to some aspects of this matter, of course, that the committee will consider carefully and materially. Maybe there's a little thing I wanted to ask about right now. In several places on the bill, there are sums of money in the euro, such as what are minimum stocks or stocks in stock companies or credit institutions. In any case, considering that the minimum amount of subsidies of stock should be equal to 5 million euro in Icelandic dollars, etc. It's in several places on the bill, and the expected goal is to ensure that some kind of harmony is in the internal market, this common market. And that's the point of view. But in view of how unstable the euro has been and her gang has fallen - she has lost 30% of her power of purchase to dollars in a very short time. If we looked the other way, look back, it would have increased by 50%. This is a lot of fluctuations for those who need to maintain their own budget or cash. The crown has also been swinging at the euro, so this is not exactly a good guide for us based on points of financial stability in this country. The Agency, in itself, is not a major source of trade in euro, but in centenarians. We want to protect financial stability in Iceland, and there must be a point of view to some kind of harmony and competition in the European Economic Areas. But that's got to be down the line, but I think there's some kind of a way around here that you can walk with some kind of premonition what's required of the stocks in Iceland. It's unacceptable, I think, that people need to be looking up in some sort of day-wage tables to see if they've become fragile with the rest or these principles of this new law, which I just like most, in other ways than this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u50	Madam President. This is a valid view of the national market, but this conflicts with the integration of the European Economic Area and some cases of minimal or maximum standards required in the European Economic Cooperation on the individual issues. What I would say in general about this is that I don't think people have money, when it doesn't matter, in crowns, and it should be the principle. On the other hand, when we offer home the risk that the introduction to European rules may conflict with commitments over gangplankton, and it brings back a change of law to update our money, I feel that we're doing this really hard. If we put ourselves in the position of installing crescent numbers with some of the maximum or minimum financial values, but we've undergone some particular reference in the euro, we can find ourselves in a situation where we have to enter this council with a legal adjustment in order to reimburse the sums even if the amount of money has changed, as it were. That's exactly what a senator is saying, in our Icelandic reality. It's just some international commitment that pulls the other way. I think this is a point we need to find a practitioner without sacrificing the material objective that is rightly set here, i.e. It's a financial stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u51	President. I just want to say thank you for those words and hear that. Minister is considering this as I do. Of course, this may not be a good way, but first of all, it is good never to introduce foreign coins as reference into an Icelandic text unless it is entirely mandatory and unavoidable. That must be rule one. I'm not sure it's required in this directive that this is done in this way. I could well believe that they have a clear grasp of the fact that we still have our currency. Also in Sweden, there is a total of $2,000, and they need to take this into account. Here it can cause many discomfort to those who are expected to follow the law if it is not completely clear what is involved because the European Union's gang has changed, which is irrelevant to us within this economy that is using the crown. I don't think it would be a good idea for us, these 63 employees here, to make laws every year and review the numbers in the law that might be necessary to update. [[The president calls.]] I think that would be a spontaneous service to the people who have to apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u52	Madam President. I'm sure mine knows right next door. A senator that we do not have an obligation to specify at any given time the euro budget, but the commitment is about to account for the euro. Here we need to keep in mind that we, in our involvement in the European economy, are opening up a two - direction course. This is a path that ensures harmonisation of the European Economic Area against Iceland, allowing you to practice your work on the basis of the same rule work here, on the basis of the rule of the work, which has been blessed by both parties, working outside the country. So we can't consider these matters to be only viewed by Icelandic interests in the case of four freedoms. [[The president calls.]] As I traced earlier, I think we need to be careful that we don't introduce things in a way that requires that we have to make legal adjustments on the basis of points of the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u53	A respectable president. In the late autumn or early winter, whether recorded, the League of Sunrotin, a civil rights organization, was organized by a great conference called the Fed - war Peace. There, a policeman from Baltimore, who is now the director of law enforcement against the drug industry, its organization, a lawyer working in the outback in Copenhagen, a consultant for international drug policy, a Swedish sociologist who has specifically studied the interests of outlanders, a Portuguese official from the Portuguese Ministry of Health - but in Portugal drug use has been a crime - and was finally the district director of a drug court in Colorado, where cannabis has been permitted. Then I'd like to state that it is quite different to allow drugs or criminal abuse to happen. The chairman of the conference, Pétur Þorsteinsson, described this to me that we would be able to hear about the situation as it is, about the science and research of the problem, finally about the future, and what the progressive ones in these areas would want to try to solve this great social problem. All these people who know these things agreed that the methods used in the war with the drug problem are not effective and will not be affected by the least of them, i.e. those who have a drug problem. As soon as we focus on consumers, the criminals will be released. The criminals are the one who controls the distribution and transport between countries. They benefit from not only drug addicts but also from the others they go out to smuggle the products of parts of the world and across countries. The underground economy here on the land involved with this illegal activity is said to be large, and there are sums of money up to 10 billion, even higher. To me, though, the coins are not of major importance. The important thing is that these methods do not produce any or little results and can do harm outside. In addition, the worst people, the worst, are directly broken human rights to addicts. This was clearly evident in the case of the experts at the conference I mentioned at the outset. In the Netherlands, sales of cannabis have been dependent on low limits for many years, but their consumption is lower than in many European countries, and consumption of larger substances is lower than in other European countries. In 2001, the Portuguese government decided to cancel the punishment for the possession of consumer doses of cannabis and cocaine. What has been the result? The consumption of these substances has not been increased, otherwise delayed. A survey conducted in 2006, i.e. Five years after the change, it was shown that the consumption of Portuguese minors aged 15 to show that substances such as cannabis, cocaine, heroin, ecstasy, and hallucinations declined. Today, in Portugal there are 50% and, in some cases, 75%, less likely than in most other European countries to use cannabis. At 143 C.E., a council proposal was adopted. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, and was directed to the health minister, to set up a group of working men who were supposed to make an assessment of the current legal environment, to look to laws of other countries that have disappeared from the criminal policy related to illicit drug use and, finally, to create a comprehensive policy that highlights human sensitivity and protection by human rights. But I would like to focus especially on the aspects of the State Department on these matters and ask the highest. The Minister of State whether she shares her opinion that we should remember to stop hounding people who are clearly ill and to try to help the worst in life so that we can live as better as possible in the circumstances in which they live. As a result, I ask if any work is done by her Ministry to make changes in that situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for starting this discussion. We have discussed this subject in this council winter in question period. This is an important discussion. I think it would be good initially to review only the rules of punishment against drug abuse and its implementation. It's not only a matter of these offenses in general penalties but also of drug and drug law. We have a general penalties to the State Department of State responsibility, but there is a law on addiction and drugs in the field of health care ministers. So there is a agreement between these two advisers. 173 st. general penalties are discussed in dealing with drug abuse. This is in the section of the Law that deals with violations that carry a public risk, including those causing public health risks, such as spreading serious diseases and/or causing fires that may carry a public risk. That's what's happening in the law today. Addictions to drug and drug abuse are also prescribed, but violations of these laws may involve up to six years in prison. There is also a list of drugs and addictions. In the event of a drug crime, either a violation of general penalties or a law on addiction or drugs has been charged. It has been developed that the law against drug and drug law has been violated in smaller drug abuses than in violations of common criminal law in major drug abuses. The principle of whether major or minor fractures is primarily the amount of the materials involved at one time. Thus, depending on the extent to which it may be taken, it is either a charge for violations of the norms of the general penal law or for drug control. Therefore, in the case of lower doses, as discussed, doses for personal consumption, the charges against the abuse of addictive and drug laws are usually taken. Then there's a law on narcotics that's under health care. It is important that this context of parts is made clear, so as soon as a question is directly addressed to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is to be done on the basis of public penalties, it is important to bear in mind that it is not only the health matters that concern health ministers but directly these specific legislation. I'd also like to point out that, and I think it's very important when we look to smaller doses that are discussed here, that when it comes to punishment on drug abuse, the government's orders are granted. 2/2009, where there's a warrant for a police cut. These instructions that discuss violations of drug and drug laws require permission to complete matters that concern the purchase of substances for their own use by fines. This source is used when appropriate and is known to apply frequently to the maintenance of dosing. Then these orders are tested by the state attorney's attorney's attorney's application. These total areas need to be kept in mind. It is requested whether the methods used here have yielded results and may be the most likely affected by the less effective methods. I can't answer today what it's like. We don't have any particular research in this series of subjects that I have on a rhythm as to how it has been used differently than we know that much has been used in connection with these things. However, I would like to view this as health too, although, of course, it is also a social problem. It's on that line. It involves both the people who are attracted to consumption and the community as a whole. So I'm afraid it's far from me that it's only about criminal torture. Hv. A senator named a health - service minister. There's no need to dwell with him anymore. We've been waiting for him to finish his job. It is important to think that this conclusion is important when we take the next steps in these matters. I understand that group is practical on the final meters to complete. Work has been successful, and men have tried to reach broad lines of communication. I think that once that job is done, it's clear that a conversation between the advisers needs to be started to make changes in the criminal legislation and to take a closer look at the criminal bitch. But once again, I stress it, as important as the part of the penalties is in these matters, that when it comes to this particular matter as a matter of course. A senator mentioned them to be a major victim of the social interaction between the health standards that I think should weigh very seriously and then the penalty frames and the criminal bitch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u55	Madam President. I thank you for this discussion, and I think it is beneficial for us to have this objective communication. This is a matter of great importance and has been done for a time, the question of approach to these materials. First of all, I have to admit that I have a bit of a problem with signing that it's about possession of drug abuse. I don't think that this was a major crime. As I understand the approach here, it's all about doing it without criminality, having undergone little doses of other illegal drugs and for their own consumption. I think it's important to be clear. What are we talking about? We're talking about having such dosages in hand and for our own consumption but moving in, producing, selling, or holding on to a large amount of illegal drugs. I feel like the media approach, and I'm ready to talk about it. But I am not its supporters, at least I have not yet legalized more addictive drugs. Based on what I have studied, it has not given me much opportunity, and it is very heartwarming to see in the nations that have gone all the way in that regard. However, there are some examples that without the criminal outcome of the use of consumers, it is part of a clearer application of responsibility to those who sell or are making merchants of death and large distributions of the materials. In that sense it is somewhat similar to what was done here with prostitution, to take responsibility to the buyer, but to the victim in such cases. So I'm totally ready to go and I think it's time to discuss the criminal case in this regard in the context that I've made this case clear, but I'm not a spokesman in any other way in these matters than I am a supporter to go shopping with booze. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u56	A respectable president. I'm celebrating the discussion. I'm pretty different from what I'm talking about. A senator mentioned before me on these matters. I have declared it in a speech chair in exchange for words at the highest. Minister of the state that I would find it wise to legalize a cannabis consumption, to follow the example of many states in the United States and many countries, and also to look to development in Canada during the recent and modern development of Portugal, as stated by the leading authority of the case. So I am obviously very positive that criminal consumption doses of possession doses of drugs are highly beneficial. I think it's very important to make it clear that when you feel that way, you don't feel that a lot of people start using drugs or reducing or minimizing how harmful drugs are. I just think, and it seems to me that in these affairs in the world, there are many conversational candidates who feel that it is a completely wrong policy to have these consumptions in society's blackest corners, depend on some of the laws of crime, where there is a black economy, and that they thrive on all kinds of revulsion. First of all, people here are hurting themselves, and that is a tragedy. We're supposed to try to get these things to work out on the surface and make them a health care professional, so we can handle them. It seems to me that in this approach there is often an underlying underlying error, that when something is banned under the law, it is as if people think it is not happening. True, we forbid drugs, but the drug use takes place, and it is under no supervision and it is a terrible problem. [[The president calls.]] I think we'll handle it much better by facing it and doing the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for establishing an important but complex subject. I would like to first emphasize that at any given time, society needs to give a clear message about the harmful practices of drugs and that it needs to work to prevent them. Therefore, I want to use this opportunity to celebrate the educational and prevention web of cannabis.is where professionals are involved in the effects of caninabis on the body. It is important that young people and those working with young people have the facts, as they put it, because in recent years they lack a lack while much propaganda is being offered that encourages consumption. In recent years, we have been successful in reducing the consumption of younger age groups, and this is relevant to the long term total intake. But I don't know the statistics for other age groups, but it would be interesting if others here were familiar with them. To this end, it is important that society's attitude toward drug - related persons contributes to protecting that group and supporting their problems. So these matters need to be drawn in mind with solutions that promote the individual's responsibilities, and the goal must be, not to punish, but to master the problem. However, it may be dangerous to eliminate all punishment from this group, where it is important that society receive that message, including the U.S. From the Council, that drug abuse is a serious matter that could endanger the life and health of an consumer and others. I agree that it is important to seek a restraining approach in this category that looks to those who are protected, built up, and responsible, as well as how the justice system can work toward that goal. I'm not sure we have as far away as some people would like to claim.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u58	A respectable president. I would need an hour to express myself fully on these matters, and that might not be enough. As far as I'm concerned, we're authorized to use all the drugs. Not because they're harmless, but because they're dangerous. I think it is premature to discuss the distribution arrangement with a degree of depth until it is resolved, although it is likely to bring up the experiment that takes place around the world. It is far more important to allow consumption first because the law of law is what is most unfair when it comes to dealing with consumers. The cry - out war, as it is sometimes called a drug war, is because the U.S. authorities described it that way back then, and they have used particularly the fact that drugs are being dealt with all over the world. The United States has not called this war to me knowing, but the same view is reflected in national legislation. Whether they have a drug problem or not, from the public, from the media, from the medical system, from the police, and from the whole community. What happens when the problem is approached by a war - thinking attitude is that you allow yourself to take a course that you would otherwise never allow. War is so much longer than in civilized society. It's the drug business, it's always the drug business that is the most important thing when it comes to intervention into the freedom and rights of the citizens. It's drugs that make shutters as fast as they can be. It is for substance purposes that search people and their tents and living quarters for the benefit of the experience. Recently, card halls were given a bill that presents comparable prejudice. I'm not blaming him. Forecasts, these prejudices are widespread everywhere in the community. I've got a few seconds to finish my case, a respectable president. But people go to criminal records for abuse. It gets very high tickets. There's a search and harassment on the part of the authorities. These are the problems we created here at the General Assembly, and it's our job to solve them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u59	Madam President. The addict's drug policy is a criminalism. Since its establishment over half a century ago, there has been very little effort in the fight against drug abuse. This so - called antidrug war, which has been fought on both the land and the world, has not resulted in reduced consumption of illicit drugs or their supply. On the contrary, global consumption and supply have increased steadily. This policy has cost a tremendous amount of money and community sacrifices that have paid a great deal of effort to reach its target, i.e. working against the use of illegal drugs. Of course, this matter is not new at the council. I remind a council proposal, or something. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir was the spring of 2013, and I was a co-soldier with others, who took out penalty for possession of consumers and who were to be opposed to drug abuse on health and social grounds, not by punishing violent addicts and treating patients as criminals. In countries where legal punishment has been taken for drug abuse, drug use has been reduced in a large number of cases. It is time for a respected president to face the facts and to attack the root of the problem, open up the discussion, and use a board of methods that show that he has failed to function. Drug abuse is a complex social issue that cannot be solved exclusively in the field of law enforcement and justice. It is a health problem to other strands, and such a problem will not be solved by punishment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u60	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this important discussion. It is important that we have the courage to take the discussion and try to make it the most complex when we have such a delicate and controversial matter. What we should keep in mind is natural damage to these substances, drugs. Sadly, the fact that we have not successfully been affected is that we have more of the system we have and the so - called penal policy that we have followed has been expanding the problem. We are now hearing about the lost people who are hidden because of prejudice and the way the system excludes them. We cannot approach these people to help them. That's what we need to change. The society needs to rebuild trust with these people so that they can come to us and seek help and such. We're not just talking about the addicts, we're also talking about young people who may accidentally get into this. This is not to be attached to it by excluding it from work and other options that may be the best way out of this. That's why this case is very important. And I'd like you to think about one thing, because I think this is a good start to talk about the dosages: what if we were to legalize drugs, who'd be the most against it? Who are the main opposers of allowing drugs? It's the priests themselves, the merchants. And all their increase is gone: so shall my marketing be, and so forth. So we need to think about this, ask ourselves, " Who is in charge in this regard? ' For good reason, the United Nations has begun to record and discuss this. I think it's important that we start small here and then follow the United Nations. It's certainly not good if one country jumps to and legalizes everything if the neighboring countries don't. [[The president calls.]] Then we can be moving the problem. This situation has to be taken in whole, and let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u61	A respectable president. I think I can assure you what. A senator who spoke before me that I am not a part of the legal process of drugs. And I'm not a diler, despite that. It's just my opinion and my opinion on my experience, as I've studied these matters. I'm opposed to the legalization of drugs to the ground. The topic here is criminal consumption doses, i.e. that drug addicts are not punished for using drugs themselves to survive the day. That's really the subject, i.e. how we'd go to the penalty frame and where we'd go to the line of judgment. Instead of doing so punishable, we deal with it in another way, i.e. mainly from the perspective of human rights and health, and not from the standpoint of addiction to humans, whether drug or alcohol or alcohol or other, people should not be punished for being sick. This does not mean, as it has been very much in our discussion, that by moving to the line of punishment, we actually move closer to legalizing drugs. This discussion of what kind of drugs we are discussing does not reveal. Are we talking about all the drugs? Are there any other people or not? However, the discussion goes on to see if all drugs are properly legalized, making it easier to deal with the problem. The problem is people who are sick, isn't it? The idea and the discussion here are about whether we should punish sick people. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to. I don't like it. We're supposed to take care of sick people by the advice we know and deal with them based on human rights and health issues, but I'm opposed to the legal action of drugs, despite that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u62	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussion. Head trip. The senator she started was very good. I'm glad to hear what people here seem to agree with. It's only recently been provided with some conclusion on the free Iceland of 20/20 if I remember correctly. If we look at it now in the rearview mirror, I don't think we'll be putting the same emphasis or means that goals were set. What I'm saying is that we and, of course, people in other countries, not just us, are learning only how to approach this subject. I am glad that people here seem to agree on this. The forbidding and punishing of these matters, as in a number of other cases, is somehow such a lousy solution. This is not a solution to severe social ills, such as the massive drug use and the related criminal circles. We've seen it, we've learned it. Then we have other ways to go. We need to look at the criminal legislation. In this regard, I feel that we should reinvent penalties and penalties. Not just on drugs, but on everything else. Punishment and ban do not work very well. It is not a good way to direct or improve people in the right ways. Then we need to start doing something else. And I certainly hope that the council will take it to heart and begin to do so. [[The president calls.]] I know it's being examined on the General and Education Committee and I encourage ministers and committees, working on a bill on the full punishment of this committee, taking a better look at these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for starting this discussion about criminal possession of drugs. I often feel that we are dealing with the words and wording as well as with the discussion. I want to thank you very much. Ministers for reviewing the criminal legislation because it is very important and obvious that this matter must be determined legally, before we can begin to assert our policy, and at the same time, to identify the real problem. In general, I can say about this matter that I am a rather perfunctory of treatments, prevention and education, and helping people with problems, but that policy is manifested by criminal threats in legislation. Of course, we need to set the laws and judicial decisions of the law in order to ensure that those who are truly in trouble and who are ill are treated, and the emphasis is not punishing them but helping them. At the same time, we must consider the message we are giving. When I talk about dealing with the words here, it's not talking about legalizing or anything, it's about how we're helping people with problems and how we're dealing with the problem, what policy it is, and how it shows up in law. I think it's very important that we figure that out. So I rejoice and wait eager to see the results of a service group at the highest level. The minister came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u64	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the fine discussion that has developed here at a council on whether or not to rule a criminal war against drug addicts in Iceland. When you think about what it really means to have criminal drugs or drugs, it just means you're looking at people, people get a criminal record. People are fined or even imprisoned for their drug or drug abuse. Whatever the case, whether a person has an addiction or not. Not everyone who uses drugs has a deep drug problem. It is offered on other drugs that are legal, perhaps mainly tobacco and alcohol. That's because we can't ban it. We cannot further ban the drugs in circulation, whether that is crocodile or cannabis or cocaine. The legalization of certain drugs or drugs is primarily health issues. This is so as to deal with the addiction that some are addicted to, but especially to make the drugs that people already consume secure. Many of the bad things we hear are simply because the material that people generally eat, whether youths or older ones, simply is not safe for consumption. So there are a lot of health issues that play in. Not to mention that when drug abuse is illegal, those who become addicted to these drugs live outside the boundaries of the law and view the authorities primarily as their main enemy. I'm not sure it's always healthy or good for the community as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u65	President. I thank you for this discussion and agree with the members of Congress who believe there is quite some harmony here. It seems to me that there's a parallel in the fact that people should not be punished for taking drugs. Let us, though, guard against becoming involved in big words, discussing whether or not we use the terms "unpredictable" or "my crime" or, at times, it happens to us. We need to focus on the problem. The problem is that even those who are criminals of the drug world escape, rather than the little addict who is ill, and they need to be careful not to punish him. I felt that the minister was covering the link between the penalties and the legislature counsel, the medical legislation, and people need to understand it. But first and last, something has to be done. The task force waiting for a minister, and I'm sure we're all waiting for him to arrive at the 143th Council, I think he's right. Now it's Council 145, and it's almost over. That means it's been going on for two years. That's what I'm stressing. Talking and thinking are not enough. It's not enough that we're all on about the same line. The Outfit must be submitted and taken into account what comes from him that I hope will be positive for the kind of person we have discussed here today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u66	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. As normal, it was on the wide lines. We're not talking about, if you let yourself say it, best. Mr President, we're waiting for a certain point today because we're waiting for some data. But I reiterate what I said before for the sake of my staff that it's my understanding, and I've sought that it's really that way, that the conclusion is very short, and that men were trying to get together about certain things. It's taken some time. This is not surprising that it can take a considerable amount of time to put your arms around it. I'd like to mention this for a minute. We're gonna have to waste some time talking about this conversation, what we're talking about. As soon as we do, it's all taken care of. We're here talking health issues number one, two and three in this discussion. No one is talking about the crime cycle or crime that we also see in the drug world, and everyone agrees, that I think, should be punished. We're talking about these small consumers number one, two and three, so we need to put the discussion in that direction. I'd like to reiterate what I said earlier that they're having police problems on these matters. For word's Hrafn. Gunnarsson I'd like to mention that there is also the rules of proof of good conduct. We can't help it in this discussion, it always ends by starting to define things in order to get ahead with them. I don't think we're likely to consider these principles when it comes to the intervening between the police and the dose and then the proof of good conduct, to see if there are any material to make changes. I feel, however, that if the discussion gives us what we want it to do, we'll be able to discuss it correctly, that we need some data from the health authorities. I expect that once we have that report, we will discuss it here at the council. It's just that, from that point on, all the laws under the State Department and then health issues are tested.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u67	A respectable president. I just want to come to a complaint that I sometimes bring at the end of a special discussion, which is that I think it's way too short. I feel that there is not enough time to talk, and I wanted to suggest that this time would be doubled at least and that we could have some kind of very special discussion that would be even longer. I often feel that we are stuck in talking about certain matters that are discussed in the Senate. I think it's worth talking to each other here, and especially in this format, where all classes are usually involved. I really love this form, and I wish there were more of it and more talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u68	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee of General and Education Committee, but the case was reinstated in a panel of discussions, and it was time to draw attention to the fact that, under this opinion, all committees are signed, but on short notice. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Ólína Þorvarðardóttir Þorphurdótttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson Gurnarsson. Those senators who sign without warning are the ones here. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason We discussed a few points of conversation, first of all about reform and reform policy. The committee agrees that correction can produce a lot of results, both for the future of those serving sentence as well as for the rest of the community. We suggest that the term be said to be one of the main objectives of the law and also put forth a definition of the term so that all can see what is meant. This is, in effect, a correction should be aimed at enabling prisoners to improve their skills and quality of life and thus to support further violations and return to prison. Then we discussed the study of prisoners and their permission to work outside the prison. It is considered that it is right for the Ministers of Education and Ministers of Internal Affairs to discuss the terms of prisons to discuss and discuss whether and how to strengthen the resources available. We also call to mind the need to increase flexibility and hope that these two ministerial servants will be started and effective. We received a review of a new report from a Deaf Society that did not arrive in time for the work of the Committee for 2nd. We received visitors because of the background, the most interesting and careful comments I know that has already called attention to the State Department and is being examined there. We discussed the legal status of deaf prisoners, and we believe that it is important to ensure that there will be a degree of room for evaluation of the specific measures that must be taken before and during a deaf prisoner has a handout. We therefore direct the Ministry of Internal Affairs to ensure that these issues will be held in place and examined. We also covered electronic surveillance quite a bit. Our previous article showed that we had a specific provision for temporary action. We called it "the law of the law " back to the 3rd. and put it here again into a much changed picture, rather a simpler picture. We hereby recommend a minister to set up a staff to reexamine electronic surveillance procedures in the execution of penalties. The Outfit shall determine the consequences of having carried out full penalties in accordance with current legislation that could be replaced by electronic surveillance in prison, if sentenced to penalvation for short term, taking into account the safety effects of punishment, correction, and reduced return rate. The staff shall submit a report on the case with a legal bill no later than June 1, 2016. In the fall council, it will appear as a prime complaint from the minister because it was a vote at 2nd. there is also an expansion of community services, and in what ways it can be used more effectively. We also agreed to refer Helgi Hjörvar's case to community services, especially young offenders, to the government for further development. Now these two important checks will be held in the Ministry, and I hope to see a bill about this in the fall. Then we covered a great deal of fines collects. That was the case with 2nd. that the chairman of the legal committee felt that it was important to legalize already a means to improve the collection of fines. It is proper to state that in our majority opinion, we refer to a talk, but we certainly discussed this point in our consideration of the 2nd. We all agree that the collecting of fines is a major concern, and the cost here is terrible. This is stated in a 2009 National Review Report. So we have a suggestion on the provision of a staff to revise government resources to collect fines and charges with the aim of improving the debt. This task force is to submit a report to the Minister along with a bill for law no later than October 1st, 2016. According to a report by the National Reconquisition on the monitoring of guilty and criminal costs, the need to check whether or not the legal rights to cut the debt from pay, whether the financial resources of the taxpayers are sufficient, and whether more intensive legal measures are needed to prevent property or money from being released when convicted and high-prices are available. V.E.G. President. Now I see that not all of them are in the hall. Senators who are on notice. They may be on the rosary, but I still think it's my duty to call attention to the fact that it is mentioned in the committee's opinion of what's involved. In case of what? Senators of the Guðmundur of Steingrímsson, Hrafn Höfns Gunnarsson, and the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's Daughter are believed to be signed in advance of the overall context of the bill. In case of what? paritaprevir As I was reading, the death line of the Ólína's Þorvarðardóttir is signed on the same notice as I did, but also the collection of fines and fines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to the circumstances of the prisoners who are serving in Akureyri Prison and who are from the north. I have discussed earlier that in order to serve an electronic sentence, prisoners are required to go to a prison home approved by a prison center, which is only in Reykjavík, i.e. Protection. Prisoners prefer to serve the entire sentence in the Akureyri Security Penitentiary to be close to their families and then go to electronic surveillance, and they do not really have the intermediate level of serving in such homes as protection where work or study can be done to meet certain criteria; dinner attendance; and so on. Yet, the report says 33 C.E. to discuss this process and that it is important here says under the word "president" here: ▪ The objective of this strategy is, among other things, to give them the opportunity to gradually adjust to the community before any parole can take place. Is this so important for prisoners where they can work or study and stay close to family and friends during the stay there. It makes you feel that the bill is written in Reykjavík because there are, of course, prisons in Akureyri and prisoners living in the north. Of course, they are not in close contact with family and friends while serving, or while they are on protection. I can't see that everyone is equal to the law in this regard. Prisoners are to be as legal as others are. I'm worried that there's no choice can be tailored if a prisoner meets all the other conditions of 33. I want to draw attention to this and hope that there's a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up because this is a very important matter. We have these two large prisons, as the senator said, Little prison and prison in Akureyri, but, of course, prisoners come from all over the country and therefore most people who don't live either in Akureyri or in the Southland and in the Great Southland area -- we can count the capital area there -- stay far away from family. It's bad, of course. We asked a lot about this on the committee, and I would say that much of the committee's time in the treatment of the matter was under electronic surveillance. The committee believes that electronic surveillance is being revised. The conditions involved are the conditions, i.e. what is required in order to get into this arrangement. The principle is now, and it also depends on the legalisation of this bill, that you must first go to a home - the only home established by a prison center is a protection, so this is only a protection as the situation is now - before it is possible to allow electronic surveillance unless something specific happens. The report on the bill shows that this unique situation was protected when Protection refuses to receive a person. It specifically speaks of a particular group, i.e. those who have engaged in sexual immorality against children as well as if there are a lot in the house and no more can be received. I can totally agree with what. A senator says this is a narrow end, I believe that there are no electronic resources to expand. [[The president calls.]] I hereby refer to the provisional principle that we recommend to be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u71	A respectable president. I trust that when you go to the job called, this point will be taken into your home. I understood that a decision should be made this summer, in June 2016. I think it's very good that men are going to do it with force. I'm just stressing that this scene is going to be examined. When I was looking at the law at 5 mg. Thirty-three. I felt that this was a little open, and prison authorities were able to assess some of the reasons. There may be reasons why the prisoner has no influence. It can certainly not affect the location of a treatment home. Of course, prisoners from all over the country are coming, and this is where they happen to have the largest national recording area around Akureyri. I know it's time for three prisoners to go to court in the north. There are prisoners who own families in the north, in Akureyri, or in the vicinity of the country. They're anxious not to go south. They will not go south because they will not leave their families. They are more likely to remain in national security prisons, complete their full sentence, and then be able to conduct electronic surveillance. I wondered: " Could they not remain in prison just a little longer? ' They would not be on protection, but would they still have to make some sort of diagnosis and then do electronic checkups? Of course, they must meet all the other requirements mentioned in Article 33. But it seems to me that we agree on this, me and what. Chairman. I hope this is over because I don't feel like it's going to work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u72	A respectable president. I'm going to speak to the 3rd. to celebrate the change introduced in a bill between the 2nd and 3rd. It means that the term "design " is added to the bill's objective description, as well as to its definition. I'm also glad that the other changes were made in a committee list. General and Education Committee. I was like other members of that committee, with a notice for the overall context of the bill because, while it is a very rich mutuality among most people if not all members of the council are slightly different in their direction, the exact application of each item and the extent to which to go on various matters is very different. It seems to me, though, that there is a rich will among all of us to improve these matters. I like the way that has taken place on a preliminary law to establish groups of work to look at a number of opinions, as noted in a fine discussion that took place before I spoke up. I like to come here and briefly explain my position. Also, I assume that the effect of setting the correction into goals and definitions makes it possible for prison authorities and officers to have more time to make better use of resources that they think they do otherwise not necessarily have enough space to use. It is also my hope that having spoken in this way there is more focus on it in the future. There was a number of criticisms at the time of the bill that no one was used except in a report, and rarely, there was nowhere in the bill itself, i.e. ... inthelawsofthe bill. The answer was repeatedly answered, and to some extent, perhaps to a large extent, that although the word was not used, there was a certain vision to be written. Nobody's against reform, so I know. That's a good price. But I think it matters that it is clear, even if it is just to get rid of the criticism. At any rate, it is clear that all agree on this, and they do not need to reason further on whether it is the goal of the bill or the law or not to promote reform. Then it is clear, and people can continue to discuss how best to promote reproof. Of course, there are conflicting views. I eagerly look forward to seeing more basic matters after the groups take up the job and offer suggestions, since they will likely come up with interesting ideas. I suppose that in view of the viewpoints that have been tore up at the highest level. Ministers and members of Parliament, who have discussed the matter, agreeing to step in the direction of correction as far as possible. Of course, I cannot help but mention at the end that one of the major problems this group faces is not necessarily that the law is defective. Although they are defected in some respects in my opinion, much of the problem is simply a result of a lack of money. Of course, this is the case with most of the cases that the State has in mind. However, it is good to think that simply by raising funding for the group of lawsuits, the current and current legal arrangements would be possible to promote more correction than the case at present. It is as it is, and, of course, it is a discussion that is more at home in discussions about budgets after all. But it is worth referring to the fundamental problem of how badly the group is funded. There's been a great deal of activity, even the safety of prisoners and prison guards, telling me men. Then Hólmshold Prison will get to work, and hopefully most people will go in a positive direction in that regard. In many cases, Hallows Vacation Prison is a source of hope against all the criticism. I understand that well, since there is a big leap ahead. However, I doubt that when Hólshold Prison comes in use, it will solve all the problems that humans have mentioned as a solution. I think it solves certain problems, but a lot of problems will be solved only by changing policy and/or increasing funding. To say that I rejoice again and again the attitude that is often expressed here, though there is controversy over how far to go, in which direction to go. Of course, there are different ways in which people weigh and value the various values and logic and facts that arise. But I'm glad to see how much spirit prevails among the people of the General Assembly and, of course, at the highest level. Minister of state that these matters are in the process of looking, in effect, at any given time, at any given time as a form of punishment. Granted, punishment is sometimes part of it, but the focus is to promote reform. It's a long way to go, but I think we're going the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u73	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the full penalty. As we have seen at both 1 and 2. this is an enormously extensive case, and in a very wide variety of ways, there is a great improvement in this delicate and important issue, where human rights must be at the root of all decisions made. It is a question of whether one day we should take a longer time and perhaps a philosophical discussion about whether punishment is usually an improvement, only that is fundamental if it ever makes sense to lock people up. But on the basis of what the Icelandic Court offers, and the fundamental and fundamental thoughts that we put here, I believe this is all for the better. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, a representative of the General and Education Committee, is not able to participate in the discussion this time. She's doing other things. But first, I want to celebrate the whole case and the changes that have occurred between the 2nd and 3rd. Of course, as far as the penal code and basic principles and basic ideas could have been done even more, I am moved to say, which is guided by it, and is threaded through the entire bill. I would especially like to know that this has become one of the news stories of a committee's opinion between the 2nd and 3rd. .............. All signed by the General and Education Committee. It's a special text about the status of deaf prisoners, i.e. about prisoners who use sign language. This is a very sensitive group with regard to the interaction and risk of isolation and especially needs to be seen in the legal environment, at least in the legal literature and in that of the members of the Committee, to look to this group's legal status in particular. Obviously, this does not involve an enormous language community. This may be some 2,300 people, all of whom are thought to be. Happily, then, it is not common for a prisoner who leans on sign language for communication in prison. Yet, there is something unacceptable besides the fact that such cases would be dealt with in some way. Here the committee considers the importance of ensuring a degree of time for evaluation of the specific measures that must be taken before and during the time of the execution of a deaf prisoner. In this connection, particular attention should be given to communication in sign language, sign language girls, and the factors that have to do with saving sites, schedules, jobs in prisons, studies, and training, and so forth. Thank you. A global and educational committee especially for paying attention to these factors. I am aware that because of the presence of the deaf, the committee's Fégage came to the committee and conducted these matters in an image - making manner before the committee, and therefore the committee took into account the presentation here in the Committee. I'm especially happy because there is a sensitive group on a journey that we have to take special care of in all our legislation, especially because according to Icelandic - language laws and Icelandic Sign Languages, have a comparable position with the Icelandic language. Especially should this be so, as we discuss such a delicate position of a person who daily builds his or her life in contact with Icelandic Sign Language.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u74	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee of General and Education in this case. According to a main policy, this is a four - point decision being made in the legislation. First, there are changes in general penalties and laws on sexual counseling and instruction regarding pregnancy, abortion and sterilization, no. 25/1975, to validate the European Council's agreement on prevention and combat violence against women and domestic violence. Secondly, an improvement in XXIII is suggested. a section of the general penalties of specific regulations for violence in close relationships and domestic violence, thus making a special offense. Third, the 225th chapter contains additional regulations. a new paragraph on a forced marriage agency, which makes it particularly punishable to force another person to marry or to have another comparable dedication, even though it does not have legal value. Finally, the bill includes changes in the jurisdictional and expiry rules of the law. The biggest change, as well as the one we may have dealt most with at the work of the Committee, is Article 4. The bill or the new 218. g. b in the penalties of domestic violence Now, during this term, a full - time committee has repeatedly discussed domestic violence and the need for a special law in the general legal penal code. We've called after the Ministry started work to build such a law, and I have to state that it's a special pleasure that we've come to the point where this bill has come to the 2nd. and hopefully we'll get legalized later in this council winter. It's very important. The main point of this new law is that violence in close relationships will be specifically described as punishment. We discussed a great deal about who should be protected by the law. However, the report says that a panel in the sense of the provision will not be interpreted so narrowly that it is necessary to have formality written by the authorities so that the directive should be considered. It also shows that the right protection of the law includes those who live with or in the care of a household who live with or who live in the home. We discussed this at a meeting of the Committee and questioned whether this law involved persons who would have been involved in a sexual relationship for some time, as discussed in the judgment of the Supreme Court of No. 312/2015. We give it up in our committee party, and it is very important that we make the application of the law a proper way to look at the attachment between a person and a doer and a confidential relationship and their trust in the way things are done. However, it is clear that there will always be limited cases and, in some cases, courts can have to determine whether a person's relationship is so closely that it agrees with the underlying views. Thirty-four. The Istanbul Convention is a law that deals with the siege of the siege. We had guests especially discuss that concept and what it means. This is shown in the report by the bill that it was not deemed necessary, on the basis of the Istanbul Convention, on the basis of its contract, to validate a specific provision for it in the general penal law of penalties, i.e. The contract itself did not require specific changes in Icelandic legislation. However, there were reviews that pointed out that the current restraining order and expulsion laws from homes had not reached the goal of ensuring the safety of the victims of domestic violence and siege. This, among other things, was a state of reluctance to confirm the police officer's decisions on restraining restraining order in certain cases or because these legislation were not sufficiently advanced. We talked about it quite a bit because we didn't agree that it was a fraction, i.e. Icelandic legislation protects victims sufficiently or sufficiently. It is our opinion on the Committee that it is proper to set a specific law on the state of siege in Icelandic penal law, while it is also important not to reduce the rights of rights that exist. There are other requirements in the general law of penalties that take certain factors that are discussed, but they are not satisfactory. It was a pleasure to find the committee that to begin such work on the part of the Ministry, to make such a provision, and we hope that this work will be done to the Generalis in the form of a bill in the fall. The commission suggested where the charges due to violations of this new 218 gr. B in the law of punishment. We believe that the chief of police would naturally go to a basic lawsuit in matters like this and make adjustments. I'd like to finally thank the Committee for a good job. The committee will all sign this committee opinion. I really hope we see the bill getting approved here at the council for an enormously important, and a few years of combat by the General and Education Committee to get the bill, but it was, of course, being done in good terms and with full force in the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u75	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's review and joins the celebration found in her words on the matter of strengthening legislation in this vital issue. It says that when we are talking about sexual violence and domestic violence, one is about the position of the legislatures and the order in this subject. I remember that reason. A senator has spoken about it in the past, if it wasn't at any time in connection with the work of the council, that the project had to be done better, i.e. setting priorities for this group of paintings. Then I guess we're talking about from the police departments all over the country and from other sources who have this party to do. I'd like to pray. A senator at this point, when the committee has specifically discussed the bill under which the committee views this situation. When I talk about increased priorities with the police services or the prosecutors or where they are in this environment, I'm also talking about the importance of going to an ever- or re-enforcement campaign with active police officers, judges, etc. We have often come to realize that this sort of sexual violence has become out or out of control, and it seems that in some cases there is a lack of modern - day attitudes in this series rather than that the legislation is to blame.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u76	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. It is important to discuss these questions in the context of this very issue. It is true that I believe that not all solutions are involved in changing the law. Not at all. Now I think the frame is all right. Of course, we must always be ready to improve, even more so than it is about will, emphasis, and priorities. I especially focus on the work that has been done by two police agencies, first by the Southnes police chief and now by the Reykjavík Police Department, on these matters, domestic violence. Sigríður Guðjónsdóttir, who has led both of these offices, along with the Alda Hrönn Jóhannsdóttir, has taken the lead in trying to change things. It takes time, staff must be educated, and somehow the culture that events are followed in a certain way. Of course, there are other positions of office to be fully developed, but the budget must always be kept in mind. I hope after a few years we can work on the General Commission, or the General Commission that will work then, request a report from the Minister on how all of this has worked out. It'll take a few years. Regarding the courts, it is proper to state that I have spoken before that people should not be shy about setting up a re-education program in the event of new lawsuits. Now we're putting in a new set of laws, and I have strong hopes that when we begin to study here at the Parliament on a bill for an intermediate level, we can take an informed discussion about some of these matters in the courts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Last week, a United Nations commission sent out all discrimination against women to the Icelandic government, which included the matter under consideration. A senator is here. The paper that the United Nations has sent to the Icelandic government includes two main points: government immediately agrees to a sexual abuse and domestic violence program that takes into account the needs of women of foreign origins and secure capitals and human resources so that police authorities throughout the country can take up the work of the Reykjavík police in violent cases. There's a senator here, and he's a special role model, and I agree with that. On the other hand, the proposals to the Icelandic government - I believe it is proper to mention them, even if that is not exactly the subject of our discussion, which falls under the realm of action. The General and Education Committee - that this Committee of Transgressive Discrimination notes that the Icelandic government must act immediately, even specific measures such as sexuality, to increase the number of women in the police, in the Supreme Court and in high-ranking places within the foreign service. Then the ambassador's position is likely to be primarily spoken of. I think we're gonna do what. A senator is in effect in agreement with the emphasis that is being placed on the United Nations Committee and asks how she feels that the Council could be preconceived to meet these recommendations and put these issues on a schedule, perhaps somehow in agreement with the Commission. Is it not true that a board of public and educational committee will take the initiative in accepting these indications here and setting them up in a positive direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u78	V.E.G. President. The equal cases are located on the General Board of Staff, which has a wide range of work areas. Regarding the first thing, a violation against the disabled, the head of the Committee, the above, has declared that the first step we take in is to bring in individuals working in the South police office who have been introduced to specific procedures for the offense against disabled persons. We're just not there yet, but it's the next thing we're going to do about it, and hopefully that's the first step that will lead us into some new path that I can't tell about right now how it's going to end. However, in terms of equality and the proportion of women in the Supreme Court, it has been clearly observed that it is unacceptable not to go faster in order to increase the number of women in the Supreme Court. I have high hopes that the work that will soon begin at the council when the Minister of the Interior Committee of Interjugation arrives will give us equipment that we will soon see results in that. This is what the Parliament can do in this regard. Regarding the proportions of the sexes in the foreign service, this is a huge task that is difficult to perform. Foreign Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has shown that he places great importance on equality and equality between the sexes. However, he has a problem that there are extremely many who have the title ambassador. We're always saving, and that's why we're going to be able to turn the proportions there. Still, we're supposed to set goals, and I believe that when it's the best. Minister of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson will complete his chosen period, at least. this time, we'll be on a safer track in terms of gender equality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u79	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee's section 1 of the Environment and Transport Committee on the National Development Programme for Nature and cultural memory protection. I'd like to read, before reading a committee opinion, a law's objective, but the law's objective is to develop and coordinate structure policies, business and maintenance for nature protection, and the protection of cultural minors because of the pressures of tourism and outdoors. This should be carried out by a national policy programme until 12 years of age and a three-year project program, which is part of and within the framework of the 12 year schedule. The committee has had a number of good guests, and I'm not going to list all of them here. The committee also received a number of reports. This case has been reassigned since the previous council and has been taken into account the adjustment made by the committee, which she proposed for its release during the previous council, as well as for some other changes. In general comments to the bill, the changes made on the bill that are basically two kinds. On the one hand, a three-year project program will not be made as a synonym but, rather, a minister in consultation with travel ministers, national and cultural ministers and introduce to the environment and transport committee before making any validation. However, there will be a changed combination of a project administration that will be less than proposed at first but will also be proposed to a consulting committee in which citizens from public organisations, partners and other stakeholders will work on the future vision of the party and will become project management for counselling and consultation with national policies to 12 years of age. In less than a year since the discussion of this committee, tourists have continued to increase here and saw that this trend continued. According to recent travel agencies, there were about 30% more tourists in 2015 than in the previous year. It should be noted that the recent Istavia projections of a number of tourists in 2016 will be much higher or up to 40%. But this increased tourist current calls for further development of all of society's major infrastructures. In addition to the tourist status and tourism, the bill covered here needs to be considered for the development of the transport system, which plays a key role in security and the better distribution of tourists throughout the country. Too much of the tourists who come to the country go to a few tourist stations, many of them giving in. Then we must act quickly. In this way, important tasks that must be undertaken as soon as possible may have a powerful impact on how citizens of the land are able to build up and maintain infrastructure that enable tourism to grow and make more money. It's a bit complicated. Many institutions do many tasks and misunderstandings, and coordination is difficult. In the autumn months, the management center was set up to help coordinate the actions of different people, all of whom want to travel in one way or another, since as noted earlier, the pressures of society's major infrastructure have increased dramatically. Travel centre has issued a road guide for travel services with a list of key measures to take as early as possible and not to be tolerated. However, the administrative center is a temporary project, and when it becomes the most difficult part of it and the next year, it is important to see the future and shape a vision for travel that will take into account how the country is to be marketed for tourists, how it will be restored to the country's equal distribution, how to maintain tolerance for society's infrastructure, the agreement between industry and tourists, and, above all, that tourism will be reconciled to nature, and to work on the basis of nature protection issues. Building infrastructure at tourist locations is just one of the important projects that will be used to achieve the future growth of tourism. The bill on this subject is important for a comprehensive design for the long-term construction of infrastructure so that the reaction phases marked by the development of tourism sites can be avoided in recent years. The bill has received positive reviews and the coverage of the visitors at this council as well as the last. Part 1 suggests that there is only one part of a number of travel initiatives to correct the importance of the bill. It is not possible to have all the necessary factors at once, however, it is clear that the coordination of the number of strains as well as rural partners involved in the media is important. One important point in the bill, which will be used on a broad foundation, is the mapping and testing of the need for local infrastructure. The infrastructure is defined as being very broad and can, according to Article 2. the bill is anything that enables tourists to receive and reduce damage or other pressures on the natural world, such as footpaths, platforms, hikers, application sites, markings, toilets, defense, contact regulations, etc. In this way, we may not necessarily have to be human resources but, for example, may be landkeeping, monitoring, and so on. They are even more important at places where wood is considered inappropriate in the form of an act of workers. As expressed in the opinion of the greater part of the committee of the last council, it is important that the natural structures are in agreement with their immediate environment, fall into harmony with nature, and increase its quality, but do not destroy it. The design of all workers of high quality with sustainable development must be carefully guided and therefore important for preparation to be well prepared, but one of the basics that can be done is a practical strategy for long-term development of infrastructure. I think everyone would agree that we would not like to see a shed or a container to build up or react at our tourist attractions. In that case, 1 less part of the importance of building up resources will take into account the great need you have, but as shown in the comments made by the bill, projects will be funded in the national programme will be on the budget of each year. The Commission's discussion of the matter led some to the definition of the bill in Article 2. would be in accordance with other laws and that tourist areas were not for the development of any particular structured organisational plans on the basis of organizational procedures. Like toyed, the plan is to be very bedy and take to form all the places that attract tourists, since the definition of tourism is also made that way. On the other hand, what is considered the ideal structure of the infrastructure, whether hiking, or other larger structures, depends on national security, monitoring, or security. In order for the plan to cover as many places as possible, and thus a realistic future plan can be established on this basis, a definition of tourist locations would need to be bedridden, but to this end it is not necessary to set down specific places in rural planning programmes. It is clear, however, that in some cases, a permit or a building permit is required to be implemented as a result of infrastructure, which is not absolute. Then there is also no need for sharing organization to be established so that permission can be granted. It simply depends on what kind of wood is involved and what location is involved. It is important that none or at least fall outside the standard range of the bill and hence the plan to shape the overall policy. When I was preparing the presentation of this opinion, I looked up the Commission on the tourist enterprise and compared it with what appeared on the bill that appeared at the last council. I think there's a lot of improvement in the fact that we've changed the model from 50% down to that I'm going to look like 20% now. Also, I could not find the rule to be assigned to one year of age, but it is true that when the legislators agree for each year's budget, I think that there will be some shapes on the future view that money needs can be organized longer than one year. With reference to the above and the discussions of the Committee at the previous council, the 1st small part is provided for the continuation of the bill. Elín Hirst and Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir were away from the hearing. This is the opinion of the Committee from the previous council. Under the committee is the writer of this article, Haraldur Einar Einarsson, Höskuldur, son of Þórhallsson, chairman of the Committee, Birgir son of Ármannsson, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u80	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee's section 2 of the Environment and Transport Committee on the National Development Programme for Nature and cultural memory protection. There is a great need for clear government policies on building on infrastructure in tourist areas. Therefore, a 2. smaller share will be taken into account in the main and the importance of good management of the development ahead in Iceland's delicate nature, and that there will always be a protection in its relevant areas. We agree with the objective of the bill, but we feel that it needs to be reviewed better and that some changes, including changes, need to be made. that there may be a better interaction between institutions, programmes and other legislation on the same subject. This is all the same today and during the last assembly when the case was presented. That is, what I'm supposed to say, not a very practical gesture of agreeing with the case as the committee developed an enormous number of visitors, and a very large number were on the fact that this would require more harmony and more harmony. I myself believe that the matter is neglected by a minister, and it would have been necessary to adjust a line more carefully before the matter came to the council. In view of this, we should have at least tried to make more of this, more difficult, and elaborate matter, especially in view of the importance and importance of a group of subjects. A comment was made that 1st memory did not react in any way and followed, including the following: to better use legislation and institutions, funds and plans, etc. which are already present and face tourist areas, national parks, and peaceful areas. In the direction of the Organization, there is even one reference work. The fact that the material discussed is really the project of the development of the rural society's plans now. The same applies to a three-year plan that includes according to Article 4. the bill that the implementation of national programmes will be further developed. It is clear, therefore, that the content of the programme will protect the future use of a country where planning programmes are unavoidable without any consistent identification defined or at least not clearly understood. The reviews also stated that if I recall correctly, it would be for the EEA's Red List, but the EEA has issued a list since 2010, where it is listed as areas of sensitive areas and regions of peace - relatedness. The green art is above the areas that are safe from today's pressures. Yellow areas are in worse condition, orange in still serious conditions, and red areas are actually in the condition that needs immediate intervention. This priority has been in place for a very long time in providing funds for the EEA and its visions. There is also a blurred interaction with the tourism Fund, one of the tools involved, and with the recent travel center. We can also refer to the national protection programme, which is sometimes called a national protection and management programme and is designed to list up projects and priorities of the nation's administration, which use their authority by law, and to call for comments and priorities from the Regional Council and then make its priorities established by the Minister in the form of a protection and management programme. It has a proper authority and is, in fact, a legal authority. It is clear and defined priorities for projects that the Lake Earth has prepared for a minister and therefore for those enjoyed by the national park. There is also the strategy of the Þingalva National Park, which may well represent a number of representatives at that time. Environment and transport committees are also in the management of the Þingalval national park, including The one standing here. There is also a national park that legally establishes its policy and priorities and emphasis, etc. At that time, appropriate governments have put forth this priorities and emphasis at any given time. There is no basis for the bill in the way these programs should play together, whether to step in, or to become involved, in any sense. What is the area of the Lake Earth's nation to form before this agreement on infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memory that should take place according to the bill? In the discussion of the case at last Parliament, this conflict between estimates is taken up in a very clear way as follows, by the permission of the president: The position of the three-year strategy is not clear to those institutions now setting their own priorities at mass transport sites, i.e. Waterland Garden, Environment Agency, National Park on the Þingles, Forest and Landing. There are more government agencies that have taken control of individual areas than there have been listed here, i.e. National parks and the EEA, but some areas are on the side of the government's snowforest and land healing. Of course, there's management and management, deforestation and agriculture manager, etc. to set priorities for their territories on the basis of their financial needs. It can also be noted that in many of the reviews of this case, concern over the inaccuracies of the contractors is blurred and emphasised on the importance of clarity before starting the funding. We take our minds to this, especially in the fact that now industrial and commercial ministers' plans for the natural pass have slipped into the sand without any other financing of a solidarity. Where possible, an interview can be made at the highest level. The Secretary of Cast Light last night has the highest power. Ministers are putting this mission completely on the shelf, has just put it aside, and doesn't think it's on the program of their Ministry. Since this route was taken in a historical way, the minister believes that it does not have to do any further task that is naturally an unusual approach to the minister of the seminary. We talked about it in 1st. that there were, however, some programs adopted by the General and submitted, but their problem was primarily a lack of capital. Some programs are so disproportionate that they have not even appeared before the council, although the law is presenting them. First, it is famous to consider a road program that is not yet there. Perhaps it would be the largest project for transport infrastructure in Iceland to simply show up with a good - looking transport plan and contribute funds to it, both in new construction projects and at the same time in the maintenance of the road system. The infrastructure of the road system has long been broken, and the pressures of increased traffic are such that it calls for a much stronger and more stable maintenance than we do now. The fact that this issue, a bill on the national infrastructure program, is not to be discussed in any way, however, illustrates that it is actually presented in a void. As we have seen, there is no question about the changed ideas of the highest degree. Even the minister of industry and it points to other ministers when discussing the problem that has come up and believes that it is in the financial sector to cover the host's expenses and the work of the Environment Ministers to deal with national parks and nonviolent territories. [[Foreground on, and temptation.]] It is hard to see that there is much left on the top of the list. Ministers, for this will not have anything to do with her, as is the case right now. Of course, personal growth is what we saw during our last assembly. Then a handsome contribution was made to build up infrastructure at tourist locations as well as to the more specific and specific transport projects used in budgets. Well, it seems now, Mr. Honorable President, we're beginning to approach spring days, that we see comparable suggestions for the summer, i.e. Suggestion of a single-change process for the development of tourism sites and single-changed production for specific and defined national roads. With regard to transport, the situation is unsurpassed. We, i.e. The lawgiver, has long ago arranged for us to agree on the procedure for transport to the council and to the Minister, the Commission, that this contribution should be made to the treatment of the council. It is natural to expect that this should not happen. Rather, the minister thinks it is acceptable to make a list of four or six road users who are financed by other means than the transport strategy indicates, i.e. Through transportation. Communication does not solve the problem that has come up and is really a lack of long-term policy thresholds, where capitals are guaranteed within the framework of the institutions and the funds involved. Of course, such a monotonous development is a means of disintegrating all normal administrative and natural operations in which some form of political concern causes that one way is gone rather than another, not the methods we have agreed on, the lawgiver, on the basis of democratic means. A policy is the objective of this bill, and it is essential that financial support be ensured for a longer period of time. Ask yourself, " If the standards of this law are not stronger than they are, what will be the situation of this law? ' Of course, traveling services already contribute considerable amounts of money, money that is increasing. But in what way is money unexplained by an earmarked structure of wood? In view of what has been listed here, 2 less things consider that there is a risk that the system is too complicated for a procedure. We're just putting a new song on this whole thing, consultation and decision-making thing. We know what has been proposed that there is an enormous amount of communication between different groups, and sometimes it's more like people, but it takes more and less to jam their calendar with the same people under different subscriptions. This calls for consultation with people who are more and less talking to each other anyway. In our opinion, there is a need for a complete organization and a vision for the seminar class, but this group is so wet behind our ears, and we are really so ill - equipped to deal with it that this kind of project requires cross-cutting interpretation. This requires the approach that covers a bill to a new alien law called to represent all members of the council. I hope we see a bill coming here for the council, though I'm a little too late for it. Here we are talking about a growing sector that takes more and more space as the years go by, and there are dozens of increases between years in this sector, regardless of how many tourists are viewed or for the financial resources that come into the economy by some means. When so large a community scene is on its way to approach it in such a clumsy way behind a closed door in some riddle and such a prototype. We are also talking about a fundamental change in the structure of Icelandic employment. We need policy measures that survive elections and changes to more parts at the Council and should not be subjugated by some form of transponder or abduction. We're about to lose some time at a number of tourist attractions. It is fun to remember the situation in a trial and other such places. The number increases each year, and the amount of change increases. In addition, the safety of Iceland's tourists is clearly in danger. In order to protect these places, national parks, and peace - declared areas, there is need both emergency and long - term visions, not only on the basis of tourism but also on the basis of the highest level of sound. Minister, subject to nature itself and nature protection. As the areas lose their protection, they lose the attraction, and thus the reputation that is really the only thing that is to be built is to fall short. It has to be said, as it is, that it is a real disappointment not to view the group as a whole. We spent considerable time and energy discussing the matter during our last assembly, trying to get a common tone. We'll send the case back to the Ministry. The Ministry did a little work between council members, and I feel that the majority of them just didn't have the guts to put time and work together more elaborate cases. We've shown that we've been able to work on large issues and bring them back to work by spending on them as if with new nature protection laws. It took time, and there were times when you would have liked to be somewhere else. But that was rewarded in a law of law that we agreed on as a means of improvement. It is my opinion and in my second part that this matter would need to be done more fully in order to strengthen the process so that these worthwhile and worthwhile goals could be achieved more fully. In view of the above, we feel that, less than 2 smaller things, the matter is not finished and not clear how it will work with other legislation and planning. We would have liked to have seen the better work of the committee and that we, the whole committee, had taken the time to integrate these legislation with the above factors. So we will not take part in the case of the matter. Under this opinion, the writer of the article "What Is It? " paritaprevir Róbert Marshall and what? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u81	Madam President. There's no need for me to go over the course of all the aspects of the environment and transportation committee that we're going to do about it following the speech as we speak. paritaprevir Savos Svavarsdóttir moved earlier. It is very typical of the political ethic of the present government how this case is conducted and how it is pronounced. It is no coincidence that when surveying trust in a government minister, the Supreme Minister. The prime minister, the Sigmurs of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, is two out of three who are questioned, who are not trusting to name any minister. This is where you begin to dry before you have washed up. In effect, a pottery has more than been built up in closets without washing and drying up. [[Up front.]] This is not to say that people are opposed to leaving their pottery in closets and shelves, only some things have to be done first. In this case, it's starting to fall backwards. It would be exemplary if the bill was being worked in a way that the bill foretells, that man was making plans for a long time, but then, of course, he would have to go into the started section before and he had his work done, decided how to do things, and knew who would do what. There is nothing in this matter to tell us how this program is being carried out in certain places. Besides, we, who are on a transport and environment committee, witness that there is no respect for the current government, i.e. the work such a plan is going on. If that were the case, we'd have settled a two-year transport program here at the council, but it won't do anything about it. You wonder if the current government's transport program has been sent to the Norwegian Council and is being discussed there by mistake, or has gone to some other country, and you wonder at the same time as the road program is doing today. Is it just something written on the back of an envelope in the Ministry of Presidency? Sadly, this situation cannot be backed up by and by this kind of action. It's all in the same book learned from the current government, it doesn't work out. The same is true when it comes to a case that is currently being discussed at the employment committee and is similar to the proposal for a Senate resolution of new investments brought by industrial and commercial ministers. You wonder, " What's going to happen? ' Industrial and commercial ministers, or the Honourable Councillors, to move conclusions to the council if they are not in accordance with strategy such as a communication plan or a transport plan that actually does not come here? Why doesn't a minister in Iceland do just what he wants to do? Why is he not determined to do what he wants to do? Is it necessary to bring up a plan here, any council mishap proposal for new investment? Is it not possible to go into action, act in deed, stand forth? That doesn't mean for the highest. The current government is constantly bringing matters into the council to pretend to be doing something, to make it appear that they are responding to the situation that has come up. The number of tourists is moving up to 40% this year, and there is nothing in this matter of building tourist attractions that will change that position in the coming year. There is nothing to do with the problems we face. When a man asks the government's representatives, its secretary, what are they doing against the number of tourists coming here, when it comes to building up the tourist places, so they're not damaged, when it comes to securing tourists, there's not much answers, there's no answers. Nothing's being done. There is no working sense in the government, and it is of no value, perhaps, because it does not do well what it does at all. That's why it's what it is. We in the smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee offered, just as we were willing to do when the environment protection laws came into place, settle the matter, review the administrative arrangements, spend time building them so that they could be built on this once the loose ends of the case are taken care of. It was refused because it is a great challenge in this government to pretend to be doing something.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u82	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. Foreign Affairs. Under that opinion, all the members of the committee are writing, and this is because of a proposal for a resolution on the analysis of the joint benefits of a Western holiday contract and a Western business council. Hv. The National Department of State has discussed the matter, did it in two meetings, attended Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konsádóttir, president of the Western Institute of Iceland, Inga Dóra Markussen, secretary - general of the Western Council, Guðjónsdóttir Ása Djornótir, international secretary of Iceland's Department of the Western Council, and at the second meeting of Högni S. Kristjánsson, Sigurbergur Magnústir Harðardóttir, Sigurbergsson of Internal Affairs and Þorgeirsson from trade and innovation. As a World Congress knows, the proposal suggests that the General Assembly will determine the government to appoint and national administrations of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland Task Forces to identify the common benefits that would result from a Western holiday contract and a Western business council. In a meeting with a man. The Foreign Affairs Committee left the chairman. Brá Konráðsdóttir Konsleyddóttir, well over the team in this proposal and the importance of it and the need for what is said by the Western Council that such a Spanish agreement or two - side agreements between the countries are discussed and analysed. The proposed report shows that it is presented on the basis of the Western Council's resolution adopted at a annual meeting in the Faeroe Islands on August 12, 2015. It also shows that the Western Council has discussed the potential for increasing trade and cooperation between the three countries since 2007 in its discovery and has concluded that increasing trade benefits for the three countries with increasing employment opportunities and economic growth and that the proposed arrangements in this proposal would be beneficial for this. The proposal is also in line with the Western Council's view of the theme conference at the beginning of the year, where it concluded that further analyses of the country's common interests were needed as well as areas where there is no basis for such cooperation. Finally, the Council considered the need for analysis of the potential joint benefits of a Western holiday contract and a business council. Hv. The State Department agrees with this and feels positive that there will be an analysis of the joint benefits of the three Western countries, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. As the World of Congress knows, the Faeroe Islands and Icelanders made a free trade deal in 2005, a Hoyvík deal, and between Icelanders and Greenlanders is an old vacation contract from 1972. The committee presented the government's will to update these agreements, and they agreed on what came as guests. The State Department for the matter created an opportunity to increase the country's holiday ties. The Commission thus believes that this may be the case in order to strengthen such ties, as well as the economy of Western countries. The proposed analysis should be an important step in ensuring an increased vacation store on Greenland and the Faeroe Islands as well as between the three Western countries. The conclusion is that there is no problem. The Foreign Affairs Commission suggests that the proposal will remain unchanged, as it was presented here. Hv. paritaprevir Elín Hirst was absent from the case. Frosti Sigurjónsson was also absent from the case, but literature has been considered as a 4 mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under these publications, plus what is being said here, w. Karl Garðarsson, Vilmur Bjarnason, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Óttarr Proppé, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þóra Ánarnadótir, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u83	Madam President. I was not able to participate in a discussion about this proposal when she was discussed the first time at the High General Assembly, and I was also absent in the work of the General Assembly when she was given up on the Foreign Affairs Committee. But I come here mainly to express my full support for the proposal. I am like a United States Congressman who knows a great amateur to promote the cooperation of countries that have countries and oceans at the North Pole. In particular, I believe it is important for me and the Icelanders to ensure that every veneer of Greenland and the Faeroe Islands is most important. I'm also a shopkeeper in blood and marrow. I believe that there is little that contributes better to good relations between the nations than their free trades and the free trades that result from free trade always include increased communication in cultural and other fields. Like what? paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir of ancient times made a very remarkable vacation agreement with the Faeroe Islands, then prime minister of Oddsson Oddn. It is the most extensive foreign deal the Icelanders have concluded with a number of nations. This contract contains regulations that make it possible for Greenland to become a member of the Hoyvík deal. For a long time, the Icelanders felt that it would be a success to travel that way in order to achieve increased free trade ties with Greenland. Iceland is sorry about this contract that's called Hoyvík because it's very married to Iceland, it creates many opportunities for us, including a large part of our export to lamb meat through this contract to the Faeroe Islands. It has to be said that, according to my experience with that contract, he's a significant one - sided man. Entries have not compared it as much as we have. This has led to the public acceptance of the treaty by some important politicians in the Faeroes. I cannot help but say that I have a certain understanding of that attitude. At the same time, Iceland and I would like to have more opportunities for a vacation store in Greenland. It has also been very clear that the Greenlanders would like to connect with us. Likewise today, our friends in Greenland have for some years been thinking about this and have come to a very direct conclusion. They feel that it is unwise for them to take advantage of laws in the Hoyvík deal to enter it. They want to be careful and have declared that they want to take the smallest steps in the first place. I've understood the Greenlands as well as their officers that they'd rather go through a two-way deal. The proposal under this code does not rule out two - side agreements, as it was clearly noted. Chairman of the Committee. The proposal suggests that these three nations are attacking the possibilities of such a Western vacation agreements. It's an excellent step, and I'll probably do it, but I'm still thinking that in this position the Icelanders should take the initiative in making free trades with Greenland, with the intention of reaching a two-sided vacation agreement. I think the Greenlandians are willing to do so, and it does not in itself harm the larger plans that could be beyond that, i.e. to make one contract for all three countries. I believe this was a small step, it wouldn't matter much to us, but it would be better for the nations. Let us not forget, too, that there is a growing foreign exchange between the two countries. Thereafter, because it takes a much longer time, it would be possible to plan for a common Western vacation agreement. I'd be interested to hear what it's all about. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir feels this way, but more so, he is interested in hearing the matter. paritaprevir At Konráðsdóttir Kálsdóttir, who is of great prowess, I allow her to say, tear up the Westnorics and make it a bit of a great empire here in the north in recent years. These are matters that we have discussed many times. I'd be interested to hear what it's all about. A senator agrees with this approach, or he believes it is useful for us and the Greenlandns, i.e. First, that the Icelanders would take the initiative to initiate a discussion with the Greenlandns about a two-sided free trade agreement and second, that the concordance would be attacked in the evaluation and the survey that this proposal deals with which is available, and when the results are available, it is available to attack at the end of the time in a discussion of the joint trade of these three nations. I think it'll take a few years to get that deal, especially if he's supposed to be in such a way that the Ents could go against him. They like to have such a deal as far as they can go, but I've understood the Greenlands so they want to slow down in these waters and walk rather than go to the beginning of the story. Otherwise, Madam President, this proposal is fine and with all the best suggestions that have come from the Western Council. I'm sure it's approved by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u84	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the senator for his warm words to the council and the present. It is important for people with experience in the foreign affairs to discuss these matters at the council. It's supposed to be a celebration. As for the Hoyvík deal and the Faeroe Islands, it is true that it has been decided and determined to examine whether the contract should be revised and then how. It's a big deal. When I was chairman of the Hoyvík Committee, the Hoyvík Parliamentary Commission, I met with representatives of the trade in the Faeroe Islands because the only thing that can be heard in the media is that of some skilled senators. That's why when I last led the committee to meet with those using the contract; I met with professionals in the Faeroe Islands when I was there. Their story is simply that the deal is very good, very broad, and becomes very useful to the ignorant community. So I encourage all the members of the council here to meet the Hoyvík Convention who are unhappy with the Hoyvík deal --it's just senators who say it -- to tell them to study the matter a little bit more and to talk to their people, those who use the contract. However, it is quite right to review the contract, which is 10 years old, and to see if anything can go better. For Greenland, I'm well aware of the approach. A senator proposes here. Greenlanders want to slow down. They have no interest in entering the Hoyvík deal, of course, wanting to start with a clean table and go over what they want. However, they are not there for the next session of these negotiations. That's why it would be very nice if Iceland were to lead the way home to the Greenlandns to discuss free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u85	I'm glad to hear it. A senator has found that, with his own investigation in the Faeroe Islands, the Faeroes are happy with the Hoyvík deal. When I was a minister of foreign affairs, I got some emissaries from the Faeroes directly to complain about him. I had a certain understanding that the Icelanders did not put forth sufficient effort to interpret certain terms of the agreement so that the Hostages would have something to compare with us, anyway, to some extent, in terms of the benefits of the contract. But I'm glad to hear that. As far as Greenland is concerned, I am grateful. A senator for thinking that the cautionary approach I am to swaddling here may be correct as a first step. I know the Greenlands' attitude. I have had discussions with the directors of the Greenlandic government, both during this term and the second. Sounds like the sound of the music is the same. They're willing to look at things, they want closer ties with Iceland, but they want to go slow. I believe that nothing is wrong with Iceland taking the initiative and offering such a conversation. It will take a considerable amount of time, perhaps more years than we realize, to settle it. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir has a skin - long contract since 1972, all streets since Greenland, in effect, left the European Union - that was the old deal with Denmark, which foreshadowed it, and we have lived with it ever since. Since then, trade with Greenland has seemed to be a hundred times as long as it was then. They're becoming a little important to us, as are they. I think we should take a look at this and give them a good time. Christian women who have spoken here to put it to work within the majority of the section, pressing only to the highest level. Secretary of state go on this trip. We should, as previously mentioned in a conversation about a vacation store, never have to be said no thank you to us in that regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u86	V.E.G. President. We in the Western Council found regular meetings with the three national rulers. The next such meeting will likely be in Greenland in connection with the Arctic Circle Forum, which will be held in Nuuk in mid - May. I certainly hope there to have an opportunity to have a word with the Secretary of State, who we have met many times in the past, to see if something has continued to go on there since our last meeting was about a year ago. It is true that things may work slowly, but I am confident that they will succeed and they will eventually succeed. However, the above analysis is actually what is missing today. What would be involved in such a common project? That's when people put something in their hands to use as a foundation. Of course, this is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u87	A respectable president. I don't have to extend the discussion much, but because there were some very specific questions to me, I agree with the interpretation of the two people here that have spoken, i.e. ... fromwhat. paritaprevir Snooper Össur's Skarphéðinsson and wah. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir. I am now rather inclined to see their knowledge in this regard and to believe that the course recommended in the proposal is successful. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is in full agreement with what was presented in the case of the chairman of the Western Council on a meeting of the State Department and, in the case of government officials, i.e. This careful route was especially with Greenland. I think that's exactly what happened. Of course, it may take longer than we plan now, but it is well worth the fact that it is tested and gone and the situation is intelligent. I'd also like to agree with what. A senator who is about to become kind of a sex prostitute on vacation contracts in this field, i.e. In terms of the importance of a nation like Iceland going on that way. I say, like him, we're supposed to be tireless about knocking on the doors that we believe are relevant to Iceland in that relationship and in that context. We're just back from Japan, although it's not connected to the Western area, since we took the council's motion from here that we want a free trade deal with that big country. It's just that it was pretty good and okay. So I think it's a success and good way for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u88	I'm sure that Mrs. President is pleased to know that it is not the agreement for attending a Foreign Affairs Committee to describe any big matter that runs another, and everywhere there is harmony and solidarity. It is important, however, that this is true among members of Congress. It is also important that members of the Parliament realize that they have a significantly greater role in these matters of Faeroe Islands and Greenland than many other countries. This is because we meet members of their nations far more often than most others. We have an extremely good and positive relationship with them. I believe that members of the council that have undergone this matter, as has been by members of the Western Council, are very helpful. Therefore, I believe that this mission of the Icelandic council to Japan was of importance. Other than that, I'm saying that I'm a natural vacation shopkeeper like so many in this room, but there's just this loss now and the years that matter that we put a little bit of drive into it. Because everyone was waiting for the next round in Doha, i.e. the next round of the GATS treaties, which I've recently lost hope of passing on something that matters simply because we see that the largest state, the most important, is becoming insulationists, in the United States, that all the next steps must always be postponed in these big contracts because the elections are coming up in the United States. They're always close to the United States, and every two years there are some elections to wait for. Today, the world is spinning on vacation stores. Soon, all nations that a professional may be able to negotiate free trade agreements with one another. Iceland, as little as it is, can't leave its mark and we can't land in that line at the end. So there's a hell of a fermentation at a vacation store in the world today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u89	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Commission's opinion of a proposal to the Commission on the analysis of the possibilities of developing a common long-term transport policy and infrastructure in Western countries. The committee discussed the matter and visited Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konsfjörðurddóttir, president of the Western Institute of Iceland, Inga Dóra Markussen, Director of Western Council, Guðjónsdóttir Ása Guðjörnótir of the Western National Council, Högni S. Kristjánsson, Bergþór Magnússon and Ragnheiður Harðardóttir, State Department of State, Sigurbergur Björnsson, and Sigurgeir Þorgeirsson from trade and innovation. The proposal suggests that the Allied Council will score the government to work along with the National Administrations of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland analysis with the aim of studying the possibility of developing a mutual long-term policy in the area of transportation and infrastructure in the western Northlands so that the area as a whole would be better dedicated to increasing international competition in the north. According to a report on the proposal, it is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 2/2015, approved at the annual meeting of the Governing Body in Runavík, Faeroe Islands, August 12, 2015. It also says that for the Western countries, there is a mutual advantage in working together on northern affairs. The countries can strengthen their competitiveness and increase the prosperity of the region by working together. It also shows that the Western countries are in a key position to influence the affairs of the region. As indicated in the proposal, it is designed to ensure that the Western countries have a better place in the growing international rivalry in the north. However, common transport policies and transport improvements also have positive effects on national cooperation and have increased economic benefits. As such, e.g. Improved transport between the Faeroe Islands and Iceland has already resulted in improved cooperation between countries, including in the field of health care, where movers are increasingly using health care in Iceland. The land hospital has been granted premeditated because of this, and the benefits of deliveries are also much shorter to attend medical services in Iceland than to Denmark and thus more practical. The proposal noted that for the Western countries to work together in northern regions and on the judicial committees, mutual benefits have increased greatly and will continue to increase in the years to come. It is evident that Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands will be in the position of leading northern nations when the so - called north route opens, where there is great opportunity for the increase in shipping and can now be added to possible dangers. The Western countries have rich interests in this, and their situation is strengthened by a common long - term policy on transport and infrastructure. The Foreign Affairs Committee agrees to suggest that the proposal be accepted as unchanged. Hv. paritaprevir Elín Hirst was absent from the case. Other members of the Committee are signing this opinion, and these are the reasons why. Senators Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Örún Valgerður Bjarnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u90	A respectable president. I thank the chairman of his speech earlier and would like to celebrate this council mishap. I think it's very important to go to an analysis of the possibilities of developing a common long-term policy, for transportation and infrastructure in Western countries. I especially rejoice that long-term policies are being considered, not just for us Icelanders, but especially with our friends in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. Because I am now chairman of a transport committee, I think it is important, too, when we try to strengthen the infrastructure suggested to be strengthened, that we look to the whole country. We've been discussing the possibility of a mission in the northeastern country. I believe that there are tremendous opportunities when the ice of the Arctic rises, and it is even greater, that you can sail there as hoped for you. There are huge interests at stake for Icelanders. I proposed at the time that this possibility would be considered and noted that a professor of Hardy University had said that such an executive could have as much national interest as the Hoover dam had at its time in the United States. You can only imagine how much is at stake. The U.S.A. is seeing an island of St. Pauli in the Pacific as their ship of command, and there would be someone else in Iceland. I also feel like I can tell from the Parliament's conclusion that we're talking about trajectory infrastructure in a larger context than the Cheflavour Airport alone. Today, we see the need to distribute tourists throughout the country. Natural rights have been highly recommended to protect nature. Tourism has called for this, even travelers in the South, who are concerned about too many tourists in certain tourist areas. Natural bulbs are all around the country, and I think it's a national practical thing if we were to be able to build wood or make it a better source for tourists to spread around the country. I'm not going to stay this far. I just want to celebrate this council mishap. We at the Council of the North came forward to expand our cooperation with the Western Pacific, as they are called. When I took over the office of the Council of Northern America, I used myself to see that the relationship would be strengthened and that the Western Council would be lifted and that communication with the Council of the Northern Nations would be increased. It all became reality, so I celebrate it, and I hope that the council proposal will come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u91	V.E.G. President. Because of what? paritaprevir Þórhallsson is a great amateur for building wood that can rely on transportation in our part of the North, and has provided suggestions, I would like to put some ideas in my good friend's coat. First of all, I feel that, as far as air travel is concerned, it's also about the west, and I wonder if there's no better way to connect flights all the way to Canada's northern regions. I would point out that an airline that has a home base in the ideal capital of his capital is already doing almost all the research in the ice studies, and research in these areas of Canada will increase dramatically in the next few years, so this is important. There's also 100 of you. aerospace market, let's keep that in mind. Secondly, Iceland will always be in some way the gate to the east coast of Greenland. If Greenlanders choose to use minerals in that area, that will hardly be as good as it will be through a gate called Iceland. Third, please. In case of a moment. A senator is just as interested in the shipping crew of Northeast and has repeatedly been observed in his proposal, then I'll show him the following: There are three ways to go, the northeast way, which opens very late because of the currents and thick ice that pops up there; so is the way that leads to Russia, which they are building up, but neither of these ways are likely to lead to an all-haul; the third way, which few measure; but the first, the middle route, it matters. Then Iceland is the natural endpoint. Hv. A senator is to employ it within the board and toward his best friend. Secretary of State that it is being lifted much more than I feel is being done for the present time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u92	A respectable president. I thank you for the good tips and I'll have them in the punch. First only about Canada. It's true that me and the Icelanders are the top keepers of the northern countries of Canada and we trust the connection there. It would be extremely good and important for our fine country that we could arrange for Iceland to be a stronger intermediate in air transport there. With Akureyri as some kind of flight crew, I've been fighting for the expansion of the airport. I mention it because it is part of the essential structures that need to be available. Norlandair, for example, has been a means of building up and increasing. If the sound of the plane becomes reality sooner or later, I can see some possibilities. Maybe that's the basic reason why I think it's very important that we use the material that comes out of the Venetian tunnel to build there. So when we get a transport plan sooner than later on on, we'll have it all planned. As far as the East Coast of Greenland, I'll agree with it. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Avenger to Iceland will always be the overseer to Greenland. That's right. In the end, I'll think about it through the middle. I had imagined that there were things that would be involved in opening up the ice, or the Arctic route, in any way, because Iceland is very well located between America and Europe. [[The president calls.]] I didn't realize it all mattered, but of course I'll listen as always to my dear friend. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u93	A respectable president. I thank the State Department for a good job and for accepting these important matters so positively. Maintaining good relations with our next neighboring nations is a vital factor for us. At a theme conference held in Grinsavík, these nations, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands were introduced to the townspeople. They were very busy and successful, and the local people were very happy. An interpretation proposal is on the way to the council, where the Western Council asks that the government support its application for an audience at the Arctic Council. We feel very important, though, that there is no more than an audience. The sea here at the North Pole is of great importance to them. So these nations need to keep a close eye on what lies ahead. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent cooperation, Þórhallsson was president of the Council of the North. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]] He went to great lengths in cooperation with these committees and those nations. Otherwise, I'm not going to keep it any further, and I'm sure that the Foreign Affairs Committee will respond as well to the next Senate resolution that comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u94	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Committee for a proposal to make a resolution to support cooperation with Greenland and the Faeroe Islands on the seabed. The Commission has discussed the matter at two meetings and has been contacted by Anni Konráðsdóttir Konsádóttir, president of Iceland's Western Council, Inga Dóra Markussen, executive director of the Western National Council, Guðjónsdóttir Ása Guðjónótir, international copies of the Western National Council of Iceland. The second meeting on these matters was conducted by members of the Management Board; The S. Kristjánsson, Bergþór Magnússon, and Ragnheiður Hardydótir from the Ministry of State, Sigurbergur Björnsson from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and Sigurgeir Þorgeirsson from the Ministry of Employment and Development. As suggested by the proposal itself, the Council is suggested to score the government to support cooperation with the Faeroe Islands and Greenland administrations on the sea ecology to make full use of the state of the West-Norths, and we are so well acquainted with the marine clearance. It is suggested to investigate how countries can expand their cooperation in the marine waters and that the national governments submit the results to a joint analysis sent to the Western Council. The proposed report shows that it is presented on the basis of the Western Council's resolution adopted at a annual meeting in the Faeroe Islands of August 2015. It also says that Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands are engaged in a wide variety of fishing practices, both on public and on public bodies, and in such countries. The countries have one of the world's largest fishing areas, but they do not have a common geological goal on how they use the resources of the sea. The Western Council believes that these three countries can, in the long run, strengthen their economy by starting to expand their cooperation, including the seaside. In a meeting with a man. The Foreign Committee reported that the three Western countries are already working in many areas in common with the marine future to form in the field of ocean research, increasing the knowledge of the nations. It was also found in the European Commission that it is the will of the Icelandic government to expand and strengthen cooperation between the countries in this area and was shown in the case of all those who came from the council when I listed that the proposal was in good harmony with the work being done at the administrative site. It would be important to promote cooperation as well as ideal and practical. The Western countries have a common interest in the marine environment and common policy management and increased cooperation over these issues were of all those that were considered to strengthen their standing with other countries and regions. That is why a foreign legal committee proposes that the proposal be accepted as unchanged. Hv. paritaprevir Elín Hirst was absent from the case. Others snarl. Councilmen signed the opinion presented by the above committee, i.e. Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Vilmur Bjarnason, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Otttr Proppé, Silja Árnadóttir Ginsdotir, Steinunn, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u95	Madam President. This is one of the most important elements that have happened to this council, i.e. Change of financial law. It's at the highest point. Secretary of finance to various changes, all of which tend to try to reduce financial losses, in line with what took place here in 2008. I had today a heartbreaking discussion with the highest. Secretary of finance, including I believe that there is one of the most important disasters involved in today's global economy. It's in connection with this bill that I would like to continue that discussion and ask the highest. Minister at the same time a few questions that have to do with other things he said today. V.E.G. During today's discussion, a minister agreed with me that the growth trade involves a measure of danger. There was a story in our dealings earlier today. One minister said that it was important that an instrument within the legal system would be developed that allowed the government to deal with the problem. He spoke of the need to do so with some kind of law and order. It's very important to do so. The minister of finance is making such a clear statement. I have that opinion, as previously mentioned in the discussions on these issues and other bills, such as bill that later became the law No. 57/2015 last year, to the highest. A minister and his employees are doing very well in learning lessons from the 2008 bank crash. I believe that earlier governments and these governments have together learned valuable lessons from the collapse that we are gradually seeing appearing at the council in imitation of various forms. I believe that last year, a major step has been taken to prevent further problems in the system in the future when we adopted a bill that included five types of self-finishment that could be taken under special circumstances in order to set financial requirements for them to be better informed to deal with the challenge. This bill, in turn, allows us to take another step, which is a very important step. It is literally taking on most other aspects of the matter, e.g. there are rules on how to minimize the risks that are extremely important to prevent a position that we saw on the market. There the creditors had to dispose of their property quickly, resulting in a loss of property, which again led to their many problems and financial institutions with which they had dealings. That's a lot of the good stuff. The bill also contains a much more powerful authority for the UN than it has today, especially in order to assess the actual plans and the stress tests that companies do on their own. This was highly critical of the time, that it would not have to be taken out by the UN, but this is a challenge to correct and correct a fault. In addition, there is much more market demand for enterprises to provide information about their status and for sufficient time, and there are many rich sources of authority to give them instructions on how to do so. This is very positive. I praised you very much. The secretary of finance and it must also be made clear that perhaps this package is designed to commend him for being responsive, however, because the contents of this bill are more and less taken up from a European directive and directive set in motion by the 2013 Commission, based on the so-called III. ... Basel. III. the support of Basel or Basel III is, in effect, a collection of changes that the bank of cash, which is located exactly in the Basel, where our current bank manager was at his time the vice president of the Icelandic bank, sums up all the lessons men thought might learn from banks that became not only in Iceland but elsewhere. This is a conscientious move here. It's a very detailed bill, it handles a lot of things. I could find fault with certain wordings there, such as that the report suddenly interprets various important features in such a way that it is said, for example.: This regimen should be interpreted narrowly. Second, it is said: "This law must be interpreted. That's exactly what it's all about. So you put a question mark on the fact that the lawgiver is also giving such interpretation instructions. But there is a secondary point at this stage of the 1st. My conclusion about this bill and the bill that turned into law last year is that we are in the process of building barriers within the system in terms of the inability to do so again. That's a good thing, and I'm sure it's a good wish. Secretary of finance and congratulations on this. I believe, for example, that during the work of the bill last year, a very good cooperation has been made with the council and the executives. I'm getting the attention. A minister of it, because I'm occasionally rubbing in it in these matters, that I've only been here as an upbuilding criticism but always given him my support of my vote in that matter. I think it's very important that these matters are settled. Then I believe that when the stage we reached last year combined this bill and the second third package as the highest. Minister announced today we're kind of, after we agreed on it - and I understood the best. Minister to make sure the remaining package remembered at least see light of the day as a bill before the end of this council. Don't let me tell you if we'll accept that, too, but we'll do it at the next council. This must be true. In other words, we need to complete this ideal period so that we have adjusted the laws in harmony with all the lessons that we and foreign institutions could and have learned from the collapse. Then I feel right or wrong that the system itself is in a very good condition and prepared to cope with tragedy. When we add that the Undeserved currency supply of the Quarter Bank is now, on top of all, nearly 600 million, Iceland is in good condition. Or what? There's one bad guy. That's the one that I asked the highest one. Secretary of finance for today. It's the wax business. Let us not forget that it was the growing trade that well into the beginning of this century laid the basis for the frightening events that took place here in 2008. At one time, I think they moved into the country almost 800 billion. We and the highest. Secretary of finance has not been biting out of the needle with the amount of currency or money that flowed in here. Still at the highest. The secretary of finance after one important step in preparing to take out a currency stand, which means rubbing off the Offensives, which are the remains of these trades of the former, where I think it will be today for 230 billion or so. I could have opinions on the sequence of the event chain at the highest level. Minister. Maybe I'd have done this differently. It doesn't matter now. But what I'm picturing as a disaster today, Madam President, is that the waxing business has begun again. Last year there were 60 billion strong, which in this way began to flow into Icelandic society. Today, the analysis department of Arion's bank reported a report or analysis showing that only in this year alone 20 billion have entered the country this way. If everything is looking at it, it will be at least 60 billion this year, but the increase may be very rapid, the change may be very rapid. Let us not forget that there are special circumstances in the world today. What is it? It's a very low interest level in foreign lands. What is the last news from Japan? Yeah, that's where banks have to pay 0.25% to get the bank of cash. The latest news from the United States is that it has reached the end of growth to 0. At the same time, we live here in a very high interest level, and the trend in a foreign country enhances the lymphatic forces. If you have a lot of money and want fruit, where do you take them? You take them to Iceland. And so among other words and the appendix, why should those who now have 230 billion in bills in the bank of cash from the waxing business of the first go out now? Do they get better fruitage somewhere than here? And the highest. In addition, the secretary of finance has promised them, or I understand it so, that soon the currency capitals will be lifted to the point that people can reasonably freely travel with money from one country to another. But my question to the highest. Secretary of finance today was: Don't the government need some kind of equipment by changing laws and regulations in order to hinder this business? V.E.G. The minister said yes. Then he gave a fine talk about the need to improve the foundation and talk about the job market. I agree completely with him on that, but the highest. A minister is older than two winters, and he knows that men don't do it like snap fingers. What I'm talking about may be the next ten months. I'm talking about this year. I'm afraid it's the highest. A minister is a valiant man, and he will not change this, including Because the workforce has locked us into a particular position. We're not going to change the interest level in a single winter prisoner. Even though it's the highest. A minister may eventually become the best minister of all the finance employed here, but he will not reach it in time, I believe. That's why I think we need to get out of equipment. They may be in such a way that it is not just the General who needs to be suggested, but it knows the best. Minister better than me. That's why I'm going to ask him again on this matter. First of all. If he makes such a direct statement today, in what ways should we change the law? How does he feel that the laws and regulations should be changed in order to deliver the bank of cash, depending on events or the government, the weapons? Second of all. He himself felt that it wasn't enough, and I ask him: " Are there any other ways to do it than they are at the highest? Minister mentioned today, law and order? Then I'd like to ask the highest question at the end of my talk. Minister if I have not misunderstood. When we talked about two significant changes and adjustments in the past, we spoke at the highest rate. Ministers that there was an increased understanding of the European Union about how we were going to adapt to superior and supreme institutions. This was done by a minister in connection with his recent journey to Liechtenstein and Europe. But is it not certain that it is, so we will still need to adapt our system to the publication that we can call the two supporting solutions of these three established surveillance agencies? At the end, I also want to ask him: " When does he think it will come to us? Then I'm talking about the Lawgiver because, of course, I'm thinking it's a big deal. These may be the biggest issues we've been through in terms of at least our relations with the European Union during the past year, after the famous letter. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister has some kind of assurance that we could pray on that matter beyond the terms of the election, for it is true to say if the supreme. A minister has not gone beyond my understanding today that this day will be clear in this winter of Congress. It takes at least one session to set these matters straight through the council, you see, it's a very important matter. They're right on the edge of the constitution. I'm not gonna get tired of it. Ministers with my opinion of this, this doesn't satisfy my needs on behalf of the Constitution, another story. I have addressed to him questions about the growth trade as well as whether he intends to establish a bill during this most ideal period that affects our adaptation to the two supporting system in connection with the international institutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u96	Madam President. I thank you for the answers I've been receiving today and for all I can think of. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's love has come with us. In it, he's going to tell me a few questions. First, the adjustment to the order of the European Commission's surveillance agencies is the correct understanding of this. A senator that we will, in any case, always have to reflect the European Union's surveillance systems on our side. Now I just can't say anything about when we're going to be so far off in the conversation with the European Union that we can present a bill to the council, but we've got our most qualified experts to evaluate the application that has been considered and it's thought to be up to the Constitution requirements. It must truly be one of the matters of the council to evaluate it. If the decision is made that the Constitution's requirements for carrying out the procedure would not be met, it would be a shock to all of this. However, if the council's firm opinion is that this distribution is incomplete, seen out of our administrative rights, then the council will have no choice but to reject the solution. Then we need to go back to the drawing table and wonder how we got out of that place. However, the case has been developed in the belief that the implementation presented by the State Department in cooperation with Norway and Liechtenstein with the Commission and at the scene of the joint committee will already be well met by the Constitution. So we have not only taken steps to follow the European Union's original demand that we simply submit to the authorities we do not share in. It was a requirement that, in my mind, was incomprehensible and that I traced only earlier today, but we've achieved the conversation from that site and we've developed an extension that we think will go up to the constitution. That's our best expert assessment. I still hope that we will succeed in this year to present a bill on these subjects to the council. It would be disappointing if it didn't work out until next year, after the election incident. In the latter part of the world I have hoped for, and I hope it will work in the latter year. Let's see what happens with that. Regarding the wax trade, I'd like to say that these issues are considered. It is important to make a difference between the now growing business and the way things were involved in the failure of the financial system because we are now taking the currency that flows into the country to the other side. The wax business that took place at the time, and this refers to most of the time, it was designed to strengthen the crews of the crown. In the meantime, we've placed a currency head, and the Navy's been able to accept the currency that flows into the country, sell in return, and in that way, certainly not without expenses, save the currency. This is of utmost importance because if these funds were suddenly to look back out of the economy, that currency has been put aside and could be dealt with by them. My comment on this matter, as cited, was to point out, first of all, that we Icelanders had to stop trying to find ways to live with the problems forever and to deal with the root of the problem. The root of the problem in my mind is unnecessaryly high interest rates in Iceland, which are in the long largest part to home-made conditions. I sometimes review it with the discussion that the vast majority of my childhood years were inflation in Iceland above 20%. If I recall correctly, it was about the same time that when I was about three years old, inflation was above 20% and was more than 20%, often 30%, sometimes 50%, for one time 100% within a month and above, but was never below 20% until I was 20 years old. Almost continuously for two decades, inflation was high. It was only during the national agreements that we were able to get close to that condition and inflation, followed by growth in return. Since then, for the most part, it has been the dominant constantity. However, we have seen several shots in connection with the flashing of the tunnel and when the netband exploded and, of course, in the collapse of financial companies, inflation occurred, but in comparison with the previous period, inflation has been mild, and growth is much lower. Nevertheless, I believe we can do better. What we've been doing in recent years, not only with changes in the budget of the financial market, but, for example, with the newly established laws on public finance in which public funds are being observed, the rural stage taken with and individual government companies and investments and their activities taken into account, we are stressing the importance of looking at all aspects of public finance and making long - term plans, establishing financial schemes, and objectively evaluating how public finances support stability and stable prices. There are three factors, i.e. A link between these three factors is the key to greater stability in the country and the key to reducing growth. I think it's important to get this discussion into growing trade or high interest over Iceland's head. I'm going to try to argue that we have rarely had a reason for optimism in these matters as we have today, since we have seen the SALEK Convention become reality, signed by much of the labour market body to develop the labor market model over the next few years more toward the Norwegian model where a good reconciliation has been established by what means a person can come to a conclusion on the limits to the payfields in the economy. If we could get there with a new framework for the workforce to create a broader agreement on how to bring up commercial growth and how the economic system is divided into a labour market, we have won a huge milestone and a great victory, and the SALEK team gives us reason to believe that we are at least on the move, although there is not yet a basis for us to celebrate any conclusion. Let us not forget that just over a year has passed since all the medical professions had a strike. It has been more than six months since we had to get the results of a decision made in human affairs. Not long ago, there was a general disturbance in the workforce. The way it spoke in this discussion of many of the leaders may not have been designed to give you a sense of optimism that this SALEK meeting could be fully continued, but it was successful not long after all the contracts had been closed. I mention it because I think it's the absolutely fundamental part of increasing here stability and thus getting the interest down. If we fail to reduce the growth rate in the country because of persistent tensions, because of sustained growth in private consumption resulting from a high - priority raise, there is little to complain that we have not created the right tools to deal with wax trade, because we are directly creating a growth change. To handle a growth trade, the Toysium can be in the form of some kind of tax or some kind of forced means of binding money, not letting it in quickly and quickly back out. There's more than one way, and they're known in many countries, and they're all for inspection in our system today, but I'll mention these two perhaps primarily. Such instruments or such instruments can be only weights on the scales. If there are five, six, seven percent over the interest level in neighboring countries, we have created the risk that men are moving here with a profit raise, and such devices alone will not be able to reduce the total flow of funds into the country, not unless they just want to shut down the free flow of funds. I suppose there's no one, I hope, calling for it. So in this large context of the parts I think we have to get close to this problem. At the moment, we are in a way that provides protection by removing our currency. We have public funds for a new legal arrangement on public finances. We have an active conversation in the labour market to move us into new paths with the entire labour market frame. These are all indications that we may gradually be better equipped to carry out these assignments. But let us not forget that this is not a special subject. For various reasons, because he thought at his time to keep his money, and to Japan at his time, he was seeking to get into business with a single currency, such as the Swiss franc, because he thought it was a good place to keep the money, and to go to Japan at the time because there was very little interest there. They have had to take special measures, even Japan with its currency and the Swiss of their time, to protect themselves from overindulging the currency, to take measures to prevent traumas from going in and out, or, as meant in the Swiss case, they simply had to take action so that the Swiss franc would not be too strong. It is known that the Swiss were able to link the franc to the euro gangs, and they did not intend to let the French get stronger than the euro's gangs were doing at the time, linking the workings of the currency together at enormous expense. Then, when that connection was removed, the Swiss franc became very strong, which has made the exports of Switzerland very difficult for them. I'm just following these examples to remind me that it is not simple even for a much, much larger currency area to control their currency. There may be a number of powerful works that can melt the picture and cause tragedy or make it difficult for humans to reach their long - term goals. I think that was a good discussion. It has stretched out only the pure content of the bill in itself. But it is good for us to go far and wide. I'm glad that the changes the bill contains are positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u97	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for extremely objective answers. It is also very good for the council to peer into a world of imagination. Secretary of finance, what he is thinking about what we, at least some members of the Parliament, believe is a disaster. Of course, the answers were very clear. Secretary of the matter in a number of ways. First, I find the greatest news. So a minister declares that he is planning to present a bill before the end of this council, where we find an adjustment through the two supporting system, or a reflection like the Supreme Court. A minister called it, on the new directives regarding surveillance agencies. It's very important. [[Up to: By the end of the season.]] - Before the end of the season, good and good, even that would be heroic of the highest. Minister, I won't tell you what smells like here, but I have doubts about this on the behalf of the Constitution. As for the wax trade, I can accept it at the highest level. Minister, this is the dream. This is the future. Hopefully, some financial ministers will reach the future to create conditions that are to our own benefit. In the meantime, though, we need to be ready for everything. V.E.G. A minister rightly points out that the zebra prints money, prints crowns, and buys currency and puts it aside. But how long can he do that? First question to the highest. Minister: Can he do that next year? Can he continue to do so? Another question: Why, then, is it simply not better to place this in a way that allows the pension fund to go out with the additional ones that come into their handed - ups every year? Ella is the danger of walking up and it's such a small economy that it can all spin on a dollar. For example, we know exactly what that would do to travel services immediately. [[The president calls.]] These are the two questions I'll find out about now. But until this happens, we do not need this emergency at our disposal. Minister mentioned here, two kinds? [[The president calls.]] I ask him, " Does he give you a bill about these two things? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u98	Madam President. I think it's important that we meet these weaknesses in our legality and the implementation of the money policy that surfaces at the risk of looking for what is sometimes in the financial world called "circumcised" or "creatures" kroners, which stay short and only while some particular waxing is present and then gone again when circumstances change or better opportunities arise - and just because this is a small economy. The situation today is that the part of the snow hangs still hang over us. It is of the magnitude that it is empty to talk about taking away your head and letting the pensions out of the country on a large scale until we have found out how to solve the deportation problem. What we have preached is an invitation where some sort of investment options will be offered to the owner of these crown stocks in various shapes, perhaps largely in bond bonds, and the choice of sharing in the auction must be confined here interestless and go very far, if not at the end of the row when it comes to freedom from the oceans. When this part of the problem has been solved, it's time, and I agree to take it, to get rid of the real world here at home, and it's obvious that the pensions will play a major role in working against this influx. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u99	Madam President. At least these were very clear and direct answers at the highest level. Secretary of finance. He makes it clear that the premise of lifting of currency to the extent that pension funds can be made out with their financial resources to some extent is that the shipment of the remainder of the Sensitors Bank is successful. Let us hope that we will succeed. I described doubts about the order of events at the highest. Secretary of finance. I wish him luck. It matters to all of us. What, though, does a minister see to it if he does not succeed? Maybe I shouldn't ask because, of course, it takes the highest. Minister to have full faith in what he is doing. I might not ask about plan B. In terms of the situation today, it is simply so that the currency that enters the country beyond that is set aside, that is paid for by means of money printed by the Federal Bank, where the currency will be loaded up as a currency reserve. He's grown quite tall, but he's enough to resist the effort if this growth trade - which is probably now close to 80 billion and even more - if they suddenly escape and this money wants out. All right. This can't go on forever. We need to have a plan about how we deal with this waxing business. We are here with the Secret Bank, which literally declares that there is a potential for interest. We see that inflation is increasing, increasing the risk for growth. For a short time, it seems to me that everything is falling in that direction, and based on developments abroad in Japan and the United States, this is a flash of money here. [[The president calls.]] We'll have to have some equipment in the railer as some kind of emergency precaution in case of the piece. [[The president calls.]] There is a politician on the field when this happened and is burned up on the shoulder blades.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u100	Madam President. It is a very important subject taken here in view of the contribution of this bill. The answers to growthism and the waxing trade in themselves can never be very simple. At the moment, we are indirectly buying insurance for this problem, and we pay high fees for that assurance because we pay off interest on the money they're paying back. It is true that as the object grows in such a way, it becomes more expensive to us, and the worse you will feel that it is some permanent solution simply to buy the whole influx. That's why I say again: I agree with the senator that it's important to bring a caution device, but they'll be, after all, just one way to deal with it. They need to be supportive of something else. The way we handle budgeting has an effect. The way we set up our long - term plans for public finances has an effect. [[Up front.]] Whether the labour market plays with or not works; this has all effects. The late bank can make mistakes in this regard too. There is also an impact if there is an excessive increase in growth. I believe that somewhere we can find the upper limit of growth in Iceland beyond what happens in other countries. There are upper limits to achieve these classic legal targets. But if people cross those upper limits, they start calling on themselves other forces that trigger influx, which we cannot possibly have a minor impact on otherwise. It is better to get the inflation that men were trying to fight with the raise rather than the problem that could be associated with wax trade. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, this discussion can continue at a later time, and much will happen in the next few years because of this loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u101	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee party with a motion-changing proposal for the resolution of national planning policies for 2015-226. The committee was contacted by a number of people I'm not going to list but consultation was quite good, I'm going to let me make a statement, and it's good to be able to finish it that way. The proposal is reimbursed from our last council. The committee also discussed the suggestion with guests, but she could not be delivered. In short, to explain what national policy is and how it affects other public plans, I would like to say that when the organizational law was accepted at the time, much was spoken of the boundaries of a community against the State. In fact, the government was the means of organization, but it was plain to see that rural society would be practical for them to handle issues in their own community. When the 1999 law was agreed to establish a so - called national structure that allowed the government to set the big picture, but in fact, it has never formed an agreement on the underlying structure. This authority limit has been under way. Some have claimed that the organizational authority of local society is sacred, but this is not the case, and the Constitution is very strong in saying that even if the community's own rights are with them, the legislators can change it by public law and no particular restrictions on it. National planning policy, which has the primary objective of establishing a coordinated land use policy based on national policies in various areas. Land planning policy will be primarily implemented through rural planning programmes, but according to organizational legislation, rural areas should be based on national planning policies in the preparation of the main and regional structure and take into account the general planning of the programme. It's 4 mg. 10th par. Organizational legislation shall coordinate its plans for national planning within four years of its approval. If a branch administration is not to be taken into account by an agreed national planning programme, it should be reasoned, and the argument should be followed by a suggestion that a strategy should be made when it is sent to a planning agency. If the Agency believes that the Agency will withhold confirmation of a strategy inconsistencies with national planning policy, and therefore not agreeing to support local society support, the Agency shall submit it to a minister within four weeks of the proposal for a plan of planning. The proposal should follow a logical report and be consulted by a minister in the case of a regional organization, such as 5 mgr. 25. 4 mg. 32. Organizational. The committee points out that the local government should immediately after the district election determine if there is any reason to revise a key structure, such as 35. Organizational. In front, the Commission stated that policy measures are not directly binding for rural development but should be taken into account by rural society. Otherwise, comments are referred to using the suggestion that it is carried out in the development of rural planning plans. Similarly, the Commission did not discuss how to coordinate national planning policies and other public planning plans. Commenting on these factors, the committee points out that in Article 10. Organizational laws, as well as the specifications for other public plans, are a regular review of the estimates, thus allowing them to be adapted to other programmes if not considered in accordance. The thing that interests me here is that once a national planning program has been developed, it is a softer version of what I mentioned earlier on the so - called national structure, only a national planning program. But the main point is that rural society should take it into account. They are not fully placed on whether or not they will follow because if they are not, they should be sent to the Organization and must be denied a plan of planning due to inconsistencies with national planning, i.e. that if an organization does not agree with the argument of rural society, to deviate from national planning policy, it will be proposed to be sent to a minister within four weeks. This process is detailed and very well understood. But I believe this is going to make a national planning policy very different from rural society. Thus we will be able to develop a comprehensive policy in this very important class of issues, such as when it comes to organizing in the central areas of Iceland, transport and transport, and so forth. I'd like to review an organization in the middle of Iceland because it has something to do with a discussion about national parks and other activities that have been on the top of a discussion in Iceland, in recent times, the city of Reykjavík. Who is it to decide if Reykjavík's airport will remain where it is? I have felt that the representatives of all the people should make such decisions, just as they represent all the people of the country who are making a decision on transportation, but they seem to be on their own. In chapter 1 of national planning, an organization in the middle of Iceland is discussed. As noted earlier, the chapter will replace the regional structure of the central highlands. This means that rural areas in the middle of the country should make sure that their plans are in harmony with the provision of national planning policies that have to be organized in the middle of the country. The chapter presents specific principles and guides that should be followed by planning plans that take place in the middle of the country and some government projects to be carried out by governments. First, the policy is that the region should be protected by the nature and landscapes of the central highlands because of nature and the importance of outdoors and that infrastructure on the central highlands should take into account its special status. The Commission stresses the importance of protecting the central population and that all infrastructure development, whether for use, protection or travel services, will be in agreement with nature and environment, and will fit the environment and show respect and the ability to perform all designs. The same is true of road work. In this regard, there is the discussion of making the central highlands one national park, as I came in earlier. The Commission does not take a stand against the suggestion of this decision-making proposal, but in view of the discussion, the Commission points out that the idea of a national park in the central area does not require an implicit ban on performance and activities. Rather, it is a form of control that can be used to determine how the protection of the central areas will be adjusted and where and under what circumstances it is appropriate to engage in activities. The basic theme of the concept of national parks, however, involves a strong protection of nature, which is the theme of an organization in the central highlands, according to chapter 1 of national planning. In sections 1.1.3 and 1.1.4 it discusses the protection of large and delicate areas and the mapping of the global regions, but in the latter directive the Organization and the Agency is commissioned to have a preconceived map of the wide range and development of large areas in the central area and on this programme it includes determining criteria for assessment of the extent of the organizational framework and to have maps regularly updated on the scope of international development for rural and other organisations. The Commission points out that in comments to the directive of the proposal's report, there are references to the definitions of wild nature protection laws, which were settled in harmony and harmony with the Environment and Transport Committee in the late autumn, where solidarity was achieved in this important matter party, a lawsuit that had been in great conflict for many years. I believe these laws of nature provide a basis for us Icelanders for many years. Count 19th. Is It Designed? No. 60/2015, is an uninhabited region in the wild, which is usually 25 square miles [25 square km] in size or so that it can be enjoyed by organisms and nature without interference by manpower or motorized vehicles and at least 5 miles [5 km] away from manpowers and other technical signals, such as electric lines, power plants, mediums, and built - up roads. The committee emphasizes the agreement between work and the setting of the above definition of the wildness of nature protection laws. Other important tasks that governments are given in a national planning policy on the central area include the mapping of workers and services, as outlined in section 1.2.2, which is based on assessments of the need for the development of tourism workers, as described in section 1.2.3, and the keeping of the map base on roads, as defined in section 1.2. The committee suggests a change in sections 1,1, 1,3, 2,6,3, and 2,6.4 that all deal with maps across roads, in the middle of the country, and in rural areas. Thirty-two. Nature protection law is a law on road record in Iceland's nature. In 1st. The law states that the road model should keep a digital map of roads other than a highway in Iceland's nature, where motor vehicles drive traffic is permitted and 2 mg. rural areas shall make a suggestion to guide the file within its boundaries in the construction of the main structure and be agreed together with the provision of the main structure or change of the main structure. The proposal depends on the EEA's approval, or other governments when appropriate, in territories that lie within peaceful areas and national parks. Your community shall agree with the Agency and other governments, as appropriate, as well as with an association of outdoor associates, nature and environmental organisations, the Bavour Group and the Group of Travellers. The committee suggests a change in the above chapters in line with regulations 32. Natural protection laws. It is very important that the committee has reached the task of setting up a good foundation for national planning. I believe that the words expressed in this opinion are a good basis for rural society when it comes to operating a regional organization on the basis of this national planning policy. However, national planning also includes rural planning. In chapter 2 of national planning, an organization in rural areas is discussed. It suggests that rural planning should allow for a wide range of uses of land, such as farming, tourism, and outdoors, to be at peace with nature and landscapes. The chapter presents another main objective of rural planning, including sustainable development, as well as government projects. These projects include agrienvironment schemes, as specified in section 2.3.2, and a road record, as indicated in section 2.6.4. The committee points to the importance of rural communication as good transport and secure communications are the basis for being built in the scattered areas of the country, as described in section 27. In this case, the current guidelines for the land's photoversion are critical. It suggests that no town wherever it is is is is left out is tried to ensure communication and Internet services around the country. In chapter 3 of the course, we will discuss the patterns and distribution of habitats and will take up the section for urban planning. This is a very important chapter, in my opinion. It provides the basis for an organization to promote sustainable development of urban areas with dense, continuous structure, reorganization of new areas and close society and that the development of housing and employment facilities will be in accordance with the needs of society at any given time and to the future. Among the government's tasks, there is an analysis of the work application and services in the hands of the Organization in cooperation with other government and rural organisations, as agreed in section 3.1.2, to improve the information registry, provisional communication and analysis of housing information with regard to the strategy plan, which will be conducted in cooperation with the Organization and rural organisations, as defined in section 3.2.3.3, and to have the preconceiving of internal conflicts, as described in section 3.5.3. For sustainable transport, see section 3.5. It shows that the design and use of land should include integrated transport policies that focus on easy, safe, and environmental transport and diversity of transport. According to Section 3.5.1, it is aimed to establish a structure and transport based on the fact that as most of the population reach their next core core in less than one hour and in section 3.5.4, the focus of national policy on sustainable urban transport is taken into account. I think it's very important, and the committee places great importance on the fact that transport between urban cores will be facilitated and practical for the entire population in the country. Therefore, we have decided to set a specific protocol for domestic flights because it is clear that internal flights are crucial to the network of the capital area at the largest core in Western, North, and Eastern countries. In this regard, the Central Environment Airport in the Watermier is a key factor, and the committee feels that it is an urgent and responsible factor for the development of a transport program defined as global airports in the base world, and that it is the city airport, Akureyri Airport, and Egil's airport. As previously discussed, national planning plans for transport, urbanity, nature protection, energy efficiency and other land use issues are integrated. Home air transport plays an important role in transport, urban areas, and the centre of domestic flights is in Reykjavík, an airfield in Watermam. Because of the way the government aims for transportation, national planning has to take it into account. I just want to say what that means if this national planning policy is approved. This means that rural areas in the country need to change their local organization or, in accordance with government policies and policies, their local policy. It is of utmost importance that if our most important transport activities, such as Reykjavíkur Airport, are in their policy to break up this strong transport system, this vital transport network, and somehow interfere with our most important transport activities, such as the city's airport, it will be done only in the history of a major process in which the Organization must enter and a minister must be involved. I think we're there to make sure that Reykjavík's airport stays in The Watermur. With this suggestion for national planning, I believe that the government is once again saying that one community does not make a decision that would normally take a greater part of the country's population, a greater part of the leviation, and that we have a national policy where we want to coordinate our good transport systems, would like to have it in the future. We repeatedly remind us of the importance of the transportation system's good and trustworthyness and that it is not difficult to do so unless all the people of the country are involved. This is another step taken by the Environment and Transport Committee. For this reason, I would like to refer to a bill that I have submitted along with the Council of the Agency, which is about to be appointed as a special member of the Governing Body in the city of Reykjavík. This is being done in a comparable way, but not the same, as for the Chefavour Airport. Each person sees that being part of the organizational affairs of the Keflaví airport is not to be part of the local government of Smokeynes. This is our international airport, and we want to strengthen it and strengthen it, though we would like to, of course, try to spread tourists around the country and build international airports in other places, such as Akureyri and Eglish Airports. This also harmonizes with national parks. And then I'm called Lake Seven-Elven Park. In my suggestion for the city of Reykjavík, representatives of the city of Reykjavík are expected to have access, similar to that of rural governments in the southeast corner of the country and other countries. There's been mention of a policy taken up by Sweden. They reached to ensure that important airports like Brommag airports would not be removed. It was decided at a National Assembly to hide institutions and others to shape a good course through these vital structures. All of this goes together and may show the will of the government. This is a fine opportunity, and it is part of the covenant between an independent party and a forwarding team that will continue to make the centre of the national flight in the South Sea of Reykjavík. At the time that I have left, I would like to briefly discuss nature protection in the national planning policy, but it gives rise to the nature of the matter as far as our organization is concerned here. Natural protection and sustainable development are identified as a theme in most aspects of the national planning policy, and particularly in the chapters on the organization in Iceland's central, rural, and marine and coastal areas. The committee feels that, with the implementation of a new nature protection law, as I entered here, approved last autumn, there were some changes to the conditions where natural mines, which are protected by law, were affected by construction. The requirements were expanded to ensure that there must be an urgent need to interfere with nature's mines, which have special protection according to Article 61. The law and the nature mines of nature's list, as per the 37th parr. The law. Then, for the first time in Icelandic legislation, the rule is one of the environmental principles, as stated in Article 9. The law. The rule also appears in 13. Projection and 13th straggler. Implementing Liberation No. 160/2010. Thus, the rule directly affects the organizational affairs of a community. In short, it is that if there is uncertainty about the consequences of natural activity, it should seek to prevent possible and significant damage that may otherwise occur. In this regard, there is also the principle of prevention on which environmental assessment laws are based on other strands. The Committee demands that the laws on nature protection and the requirements for a procedure for activities that may interfere with nature or natural mines that are protected by that law. This should be kept in mind when further examining the general text of national planning. Finally, the environmental assessment will take place, but according to Article 3. 1 1. Environment evaluations for national planning policies should be implemented according to the Environmental Assessments No. 105/2006. I'm not going to have a discussion on this proposal for the resolution of national planning policy for 2015-226 longer. I drew attention to the fact that the entire committee agreed on the matter. There has been good and much agreement on important environmental and transport issues, and it is a pleasure that such reconciliation should be achieved in as many major issues. I think it was of utmost importance when matters are settled that they have a superior sense of cooperation and that it was sought out by all those who have something to say about the lawsuits. Under the committee's opinion, the writer of this article, Höskuldur Þórhallsson, president of the Committee, and head of the Committee opinion, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, in advance, Haraldur Einarsson, Birgir Ármannsson of the Year, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, in advance, Ságísdótísdótir, Róbert Marshall, in advance, and Vilhjálmur Svavarsdóttir the Árnason, in advance. I understand these warnings are general and not focused on any particular point. It is good when a committee can appear and return one of the committees. As I said in my speech, I believe with this suggestion that national planning is being shaped the basis for how we see an organization in the whole country, that there will be not just a guide for rural society to follow, but bearing it, if they want to deviate from it, to make logical remarks for change. There are also other limitations because, as has been repeated, an organization needs to review the matter and then a minister. According to this, I'd like to thank the Environment and Transport Committee for a lot of work in this very important matter. I hope that the Generals and all members of Congress who sit here in the Hall will agree to the proposal presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u102	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the Code of Morality for the Generals. The Conspiracy proposal appeared earlier during this council, and it was offered at the following steps. Councilmen: The Einar K. Guðfinnsson, Kristján L. Möller, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Steingrímur Sigfússon, Valgerður, Sæmundsson, Róbert Marshall, Gunnarsson Gnarfjörnsson, Ragnheiður Einar, Daðason, Helgi Hjörvar, Svandís, Birgitta Jónsdóttir. Then the Council's Committee for Presidency and members of Congress present the matter. In other words, the matter was a very broad solidarity from the beginning. The Commission and the review board sent the story and received reviews from a few sources, Conspiracy, anti-corruption organization, Iceland's Law Association and the National Institute of Morality at the University of Iceland. The representatives of all these institutions met with the Committee, which held a number of meetings on the subject. Of course, in addition to these individuals, the general experts also came into the matter. I'm going to refer in my case to what is presented in the committee's opinion, and sometimes to a word, but we'll refer to how the case of the committee was handled on the basis of the agreement of ethics for members of Congress. In June 2011, there were approved changes in the International Parliamentary Act, which required the laying of a synopsis on the code of ethics for the general council. The international community, says the Committee, has established a demand for increased transparency in the work of national and international bodies. In connection with the review of the activities of the Council of Nations, which the GRECO Committee has been working on, it has encouraged senators to set up ethical standards, including those of the Northern Parliament, in its March 22, 2013 report. The GRECO Committee is a member of the European Parliament. The committee believes that it is important to increase the awareness of the Generals' activities and points out that the general bodies are already obliged to make a public declaration of their financial interests and confidential matters outside the council. The committee noted that the sentence of the Code for the Generals is of the same hurt. The committee's meetings discussed the position of members of the Parliament as members of the National Committee and the general significance of their code of ethics. 48th. The Constitution guarantees that the members of the general body are bound exclusively to their convictions and have no rules from their voters. The pattern of that law was 59 C.E. The Directive to restore the General Assembly as a counseling council that every member of the Parliament could in his work only responsibly responsibly hold the conviction of the public's health for prominence, he must not bind himself to any of the headlines of the voters. Senators are not expected to remain neutral in their duties. On the contrary, it is the role of the Generalis - on the basis of the conviction of more than one member of the Parliament in each matter - to choose what interests to focus on and advance legislation, according to incidents at the expense of other interests. Therefore, it is up to members of Congress to decide which interests are considered to be public interests that the government should work on in its work. Upon that choice, members of Congress are bound only by their convictions and legal requirements. The committee noted that among other things, members of the Parliament are chosen for their own interests. The committee believes that it is important to consider the prosecuting of members of Congress and that the procedure of ethical principles should not alter that fact. The Commission believes that the presentation of ethical rules is an important factor in strengthening public trust in the work of the Generals, including where information on the stake relationship between members of Congress is expected to be readily available. The committee emphasizes that successful implementation of the rules is fundamental. The Committee discussed the possible issues of opinion that could be involved in the implementation of ethical principles, including those on the part of the Commission. for the expression and manners of the general people. According to 2 mg. 49. g. The Constitution will not be a member of the council charged outside the council for what he has said in the council unless it is granted by the Council. On their comments outside the council, the Generals bear responsibility as well as others. The Commission points out that the purpose of the Code is to promote transparency in the activities of the Generals, as well as belief and confidence in the public at the General Assembly. They set out specific standards of behavior for which it has fallen. The committee believes that members of Parliament must have the means to express themselves on the work of the council and on a general political debate, highlighting that the code of ethics for members of Congress cannot limit the Constitutional rights of their rights. The Committee discussed the value of ethical regulations for members of the Parliament, in view of the laws of government and other regulations in the law on the conduct of members of Congress. 47th and 48th. The Constitution consists of the members of the general council making a solemn pledge to the Constitution and that they are bound solely to their convictions and not by the instructions of their voters. At that time, the general council enjoys a broad set of freedoms of speech guaranteed in 2 mg. 49. g. The constitution. The Commission emphasizes that ethical guidelines meet the requirements in the Constitution and in the general laws applicable to the work of members of the Parliament and are primarily recorded on accepted moral standards. The Commission discussed some aspects of the implementation of ethical rules, but the proposal suggests that the Committee to President of a ship of three men will be named until about five years of age, a protocol committee that will address relevant issues of the expected violations of the protocol. The Commission believes that, in view of the decision made by the prime committee in these matters and that the three members of the Committee are reserved for the recruitment role of a prime committee, the emphasis on this role is correct and therefore suggests that the rules take into account the role of the committee. The committee considers its role, among other things, to be a matter of careful opinion, that the request of the prime committee involved in possible violations of the principles established by members of Congress, e.g. In terms of financial transparency. The committee stresses that if members feel that they are wrong, members of Parliament can also turn such opinions to the committee. The committee stresses that this worker does not have a ruling authority and that the prime committee is involved in the findings of the committee when available and when necessary making decisions on continuity. The committee suggests some changes in wording according to indications that are designed to simplify and explain the rules. Then the commission suggests that a panel of moral bodies be a adviser of three men, but it suggests that members of Parliaments should confirm by their signature that they have studied the rules and that instead of setting a budget set in the rules of budgets and erections, they will be referred to regulations on registration of the financial interests of members of the general body and confidentiality outside the council. The committee suggests that the Council's resolution will be adopted by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. At the end of Hjövar's Hjörvar, however, he was absent. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Birgitta Jónsdóttir writes in advance. Under this opinion, you'll write for me. The men of Belear, the son of Níelsson, the Birgitta of Jónsdóttir, for a warning, say, Ahl-Hjörvar, Hömur the Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, Birggith the Ármannsson of Aarnar, Elsa Lára the Arnardóttir of Arni Páll the Árnason of Aarnar, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson. V.E.G. President. I've been primarily drawn to the committee's opinion, actually read that there is a situation, and I'm not going to have any more words on the subject, at least not for this reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u103	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party with a motion-changing proposal for a hearing of a new investment policy. It's from a large part of the job committee. We covered the matter extensively, and we found Þórður Hilmarsson, from Iceland's Office, a representative of the Controversy, the Association of Industrial Affairs, and the Iceland Business Council. We also received reviews of the case from the Union of Colleges, Based Agency, Iceland, National Relations and the National Protection Agency of Iceland, which also came to the National Committee, Business Association, Industrial Association, Iceland's Secret Bank, and Business Council. The proposal puts emphasis on projects to promote new investment in Icelandic employment and shows that the government's marketing and presentation activities take into account this emphasis. The purpose of the Parliamentary arrangement is to set out standards that reflect the government's priorities in terms of new investments. According to the proposal, the investment in new investors involves investments that increase the variety of industry, bring new knowledge and technology, and promote the competitiveness of the country. In addition to the proposal to aim for international and international investments as well as to highlight the increasing diversity and the secondary domestic activities. The greater part welcomes the proposal, pointing out that most of the people who gave a review to the Committee described it as a delight. Yet, it was noted that the wording of the proposal is rather widely understood and that its promises are not going to work. The major part of the section considers it important to follow a structured policy if it is taken up from the council and agrees with indications made to the Commission that many promises will not be carried out in the administration. The greater part suggests that the cooperation between the labour market governments and partners will be encouraged to improve the role of the latter in implementing policy measures, including increasing policy development. At the scene of the National Institute of Iceland. As a result of this discussion, Iceland is faced with great opportunities for international investments as foreign workers in a broad range of economic sectors. The majority were particularly concerned about the country and its status compared to dense areas, e.g. ... southwesthorn. The greater part of the country considers it important that government policies be especially viewed for the development of a wide range of employment opportunities and that it is the basis for the future stability. The majority of the items indicate a difference. has the government's authority to provide special based support according to local law on the NGOs for new investors in Iceland, No. 41/2015. The more part feels it's clear that e.g. Seafood and agriculture will not change the key role, therefore, in ensuring structure that has been established over the past few decades, and it is therefore important to provide more diverse support for the branches as well as for others. Based on the ESA, the EFTA monitoring centre is permitted to provide community support in certain local areas, i.e. correspondent in the northwestern, northeastern, and South. The majority of these contributes to increasing employment opportunities in the country and measures that contribute to the large and wide structure of the country. Thinks more of it than enough to explore the willingness to adopt another community map in this country or national policy based on the possibility that by increasing distances from the capital area, support could become greater. This suggests that the majority need to strengthen the distribution system of electricity and to enhance its transport capacity to ensure adequate nuclear supply across the country. It has been observed that, outside southwestern and northeastern countries, there are limited potentials for building up facilities for projects requiring considerable energy. Thus, the majority suggest that the development of infrastructure in electricity distribution and transport systems is specifically directed. It was noted that energy industry and industrial activity were to be distinguished by the committee. Energy industry generally refers to an enterprise requiring e.g. About 5 to 50 megawatts prior to their business were involved in such a relationship, e.g. The mention of electricalization is rejected, but up to 10 megawatts are needed for larger ports. There is plenty of access to energy that affords great opportunities. to promote innovation and knowledge in the technical and scientific fields. An outstanding example of this is interesting projects that have developed in full - time development. Thus, a wide range of activities, which can be said to be unique on a global scale, have been developed in connection with energy efficiency in the Southern Resource Park. There is a number of opportunities for information in this country, and a greater part of it is important to contribute to the inexpensive transport between Iceland and other countries, where transport costs are 5 to 10 times more expensive here than in competitive countries. In order to lower the price, buyers need large amounts of transport that return to more efficient vehicles on transport routes. The majority thus encourages special initiatives in the cooperation of public and employment in order to reach the country of major users in this area. At the same time, large amounts of national communication must be achieved by increasing the spread of optic cables. A policy must be made that 99.9% of the population have access to connections that are at least 100 MB/s. The proposal is a transboundary reference to the work of knowledge and innovation, the industry that is designed to create something new or to improve what already exists. The course, for example, is the case. Emphasis on new investments, which promote the growth of international competitive knowledge industry, which is supported by the latest and best available technologies and environmental standards. In addition, there is talk of cooperation with Icelandic companies and investments in Icelandic innovation companies. It is important that Iceland's targets on greenhouse gas emissions are considered in the future construction of employment instruments. In this regard, the majority of the population points out that Iceland has more opportunities than many other countries have for sustainable use of renewable energy. In policy-making and decision-making, the overall image of greenhouse gas emissions should be consulted for the development of sectoral activities including in view of Iceland's commitment to the United Nations Climate Conference in December 2015. The majority adds up to Figure 4. The proposal to refer to Iceland's commitments at the climate convention. By this commitment, the Icelandic government joined the world's progressive nations in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These commitments should be guided by the assessment of environmental solutions to new investment projects and be introduced into the evaluation of new investment projects. It will not be different from carefully examining how companies solve their environment, especially greenhouse gas emissions, which is the driving force of factor 4. If the climate team is removed from this logical context, it is likely to be left alone as empty words. In general, in terms of climate targets and in general, the majority of jobs in general feel that the work should be avoided. For example, large amounts of carbon emissions are discussed, but the inevitable emissions of carbon from tourism to and from the country can be shown. The majority of the data shows that Iceland's speciality is still at the same time. in the production and distribution of green energy. In other areas, Iceland's competitiveness is more difficult, such as transport, a wide range of experience and appropriate education and is primarily a shortage of industrial and technologicalised people in this country. It is important that these factors be highlighted in the implementation of the policy. As mentioned above, the suggestion of this particular standard reflects the government's emphasis on new investors. The majority feel that a wide range of opportunities will have to be created in this country. In view of the greater part, it is in accordance with the policy that in the future industrial development will be considered mainly to a lesser extent than may have been so far and requiring adequate energy. The majority stress that created is a country's requirement for young people to offer varied, well - paying jobs. Kristján L. Möller was away from the case, but literature is considering this with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Council procedures for the Council Committees. Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnydótttir, in advance, emphasizes the importance of speeding up all the infrastructure in this country to meet the current demands of greater wealth development, good housing conditions, and increased opportunities for new investors. Furthermore, it highlights the interpretation of the growth of the green economy in Iceland, which was adopted at the General Assembly in March 2012, with all votes, the importance of creative articles, innovations, research and development of sectoral sectors, the diversity and encouraging environment of SMEs. Páll Jóhann Pálsson, writing on this in advance, stressed the need to view climate globally when making decisions on the location of a particular activity. The majority suggest that the proposal be agreed with the following modification: On the 4th cycle, 1.mg. The proposal will be added: including in view of Iceland's commitment to the United Nations Climate Conference in December 2015. Under the heading, as we have previously seen, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, in advance, Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kristján L. Möller, the Þöstein Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Egilsdótir. A respectable president. There must be a particular interest when so many employment committees agree on texts, such radical text in a committee party that is actually being observed. It's supposed to be a celebration. Of course, what a joy it is to have such a collective view of the future reflected in the committee's viewpoint! We had much to do with the site of the country's home and its potential for building up in the coming years and decades to reverse the urban development that we have seen in recent decades. I think that's the common objective of us all, something we can combine to be very important. Granted, there are many opportunities to develop in the country. We see in many places the creating of housing problems, the building of new residences around the country, is a need to be able to answer existing needs. Interestingly, one of the polls that at some point during the New Year's Day, if I recall a year's convention, especially when young people were asked if they might wish to live in the country. About 75% of young people said they could imagine living in the country, i.e. if you have certain quality of life. We need to create that quality of life. In recent years and decades, when it comes to creating a foundation in the country, the sectors that we have looked forward to are the means of fishing and agriculture. With new habitats and rapid development in the change in agricultural practices, it is clear that agriculture will not function to the same extent that it has been. Trends have been high and rapid. We can only see that in the last 15 to520 years, the population of cows has dropped from 1800 to 650. This development will continue. This means that fewer ground will be inhabited. There will be fewer people with direct farming practices, both in the rural areas and in the rural areas. The same is true in the fishing road. In the fishing industry, new technologies are actually developing at any given time. Me and the Icelanders have become the lead producer of a new technology when it comes to the production of valuables in the fishing road. On the Seafood mall I was reading the other day, we can expect to have about 60% more valuable out of each cod than our Uncle Nords, who are now looking very closely at both the fishing system we have and also the processing techniques we use to increase their value potential now that they face downing the low price of oil prices. The technology being introduced into e.g. The process of fish sheets is revolutionary. This will result in fewer fish productions in the country than in today, and they grow larger and more productive, and they produce more value. It is a very positive development. But if we're not going to see that this is going to cause most of it to affect the country then we have to respond. Of course, the development of tourism is very important to us and is of utmost importance, not just for national preparation, but for individual areas as well as even on a yearly basis in some places. In fact, we see nothing more in the pipes there than that increase will continue. Of course, the objective of each of us is to make it clear that the increase will be more successful in the scattered areas. But I think it's wishful thinking if anyone thinks it's going to be the big opportunity in many parts of the country to trust solidarity. Of course, this will have a lot of influence in many parts of the world, but in most cases it is limited. We can imagine an area perhaps in the Southwestern region, even closer to the Westland, even somewhere north, where it will matter and will increase structure in those areas and give us greater opportunities. But something else will have to happen. It was then called by sources whom the committee is trying to answer in their committee. We give high priority to the building of the telecommunications network. The basis for the construction of jobs is that there is a high level of Internet access in most parts of the country. The goal of the existing government and its current work aims to achieve this high - speed connection by 99.9% of homes. That task is on the move, and only in a few years will it end. Another factor is the production of electricity and the transport systems of electricity. For the committee, representatives from Landing came. They pointed out to us, and it was shown in their case that they can answer very little to many of the inquiries they receive today to deliver electricity for smaller industry. Their case, the committee agrees, and then we're talking about an aluminium or something that takes even hundreds of megawatts, even up to 5,500 megawatts, that's not what we have to stress today. This was necessary at the time because animals had been too expensive to do so with few and small buyers. These large merchants made it possible for us to build our main distribution system, carry it costs, and see its consequences in national electricity accounts that are the lowest in the countries we compare with, and probably the lowest in the world. This is because the big users paid off this expensive distribution system in a large country. But now there is a different age. This has opened up opportunities for us to look to more diverse and smaller sectors. That's very convenient for us, in fact, tenaciously. Sadly, some present - day jobs have shown an interest in developing a wide range of activities than they have since disappeared because of not receiving an energy of perhaps 10 or 20 megawatts. It would have seemed special in a country that has all the opportunities for green energy to have such a situation. Of course, it's completely intolerable that habitats, large rural areas, should live in such less competitive conditions when it comes to developing a more diverse production and employment opportunities. It is only right here on the southwest corner and in the northeastern part of the Theistaremory, which is now in the building of Lake Mice and Crevicing, where there is some possibility. Other areas are just ahead. We are talking about areas where there is a great need for greater diversity in their job activities to build trust. So I think it's absolutely fundamental. We are very likely to face this challenge at the council when it comes to getting energy for that important activity. Of course, building a powerful distribution system will be futile if energy is not available to export distribution systems. There's another thing we're gonna have to take care of here. I hope we on a professional committee are making the tone that we can sit down and have a decent and objective discussion on this important point because it has to be followed. We must show responsibility in creating such conditions in our country. That won't happen unless we get together on a certain course. The concept of a highland park is now being developed. It's certainly an interesting subject that I'm totally ready to listen to. Of course, this must be done on the basis of compromises, compromises between nature protection and innovation. I have full faith in that, most respectable president, that we can get together on this important matter. At times, people may be embarrassed to look closer when it comes to such matters. It is all right to take an assignment that is closer to your heart or closer to where you are from. We must turn away from such thinking and thinking about the whole. This would surely have been more conflicting than is seen in building a major industry, if you could call it Bakka, building a silica plant. It's certainly a major, extravaganza, if you're looking at electricity. Surely there would have been more quarreling if it had not been for men to look closer, were ready to support that project there. There would also be disagreements, I'd be quite clear, if there was a chance of building a whale surgery somewhere else. But I think we can settle for that activation because of its importance for the Western settlement. But in the edge of a country of peace, in the West, in the Beaches, there is a very delicate land of peace. A line must be removed from that activation across sensitive areas. This applies to other parts of the country as well. We must be open to compromise in this matter, just as we did in the processing of this case, with a clear view to all these factors. We all agree, a respectable president, that we should put an extra emphasis on the environment. We are under increased pressure on the climate. Under it, we have written. In this regard, all of us agree to add weight to the scales as much as can be done in those areas. We set the example for many other nations when it comes to this vital matter. Or what? We are not burning oil, gas, or coal to make our houses, or to produce our electricity. This presents a great opportunity, as indicated in our committee party with the Senate resolution proposal. I was at a tourist conference today at the rest of the tourism Association, and a very interesting point was presented there. This interaction was talked about, and we need to consider so much in the future. Travelers most come to Iceland because of the nature of the country and all the variations it offers, whether it is landscape or northern light, and there are no doubt opportunities to further this. However, let us not forget this discussion, taking full note of how we are in our energy supply, how we swallow our houses, and how we produce electricity. This attracts the attention of tourists. When we talk about the highlands and the movement of tourists in their larger areas, it is a fact, a respectable president, that more tourists visited our fortresses last year, and took a keen look at them, but they went up to the highlands. It is also interesting for tourists to see how we handle these matters. We set the example for other nations in that regard. We members of the Parliament are required to conduct our case so that we take all these interests into account but do not have the irresistibly when it comes to other factors. This is also true when we discuss sector carbon emissions. All too often we fall into the pit of comparing jobs, of saying tourism rather than industry or anything like that. Why do we need to go that way? Why don't we just look at each branch and think in ourselves: " How can we strengthen this industry while strengthening all the others to support the support of our community? ' That's how we're supposed to get closer to the discussion. When it comes to carbon emissions of industry, it is clear that transporting tourists to and from the country involves more carbon emissions than the rest of the major industry in the country. It is never mentioned in the discussion of those who feel that from nature's protection, they have to resist the development of high - energy industry. Is it, then, the next time, if they achieve a complete victory over one of the wings, to move on to something else? These matters need to be discussed with responsibility, and I trust that we can live up to that responsibility. We are in many respects at a turning point in this regard. As the discussion has developed, we are much more aware of the emphasis we should have on the future in these matters. I trust that this can be achieved, not only here at the council, but also in the community. Of course, the media play a vital role in this discussion. All too often, simple statements that, in my opinion, require dead questions to rush into the media without any criticism. I'll take an example. At a press conference held by Andri Snær Magnason and Björk Guðmundsdóttir on climate matters not long ago, they claimed to be the highest. The prime minister and financial minister intended to build 32 fortresses on top of the highlands and, as it was said, to destroy the highlands. [[Up front.]] - Now it's going to go to the chest at what? paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, who woke up here in the side hall, of course, and it is relevant to him when he is spoken of in this way. Was there one journalist at that press conference, a respectable president, who thought of asking one question about whether it was right, where to find it, where to find this policy? Not alone. Not one of the media was there, but it was accepted as holy truth, and was revealed to the people, and thus told. We here at the council and those who are concerned with the community, society, business and institutions, but the responsibility for building our country up to the future is just as much in the media as it is in order for the 75% of young people who think they can move abroad, even to their homelands in many cases, and live in a good life. My daughter is raised on the gravel. She was actually born in the country while I was a farmer in the north, but she moved to Siglundur, as I know that the one who is now in the chair knows well even married his uncle, that may be an extra point. But there was a lot of effort, a big decision for young people who may not have experienced this except in a small way, but I can tell them today that experience is very good. I think that much benefits come from living in a country and raising children in the country, but this requires that quality of life be available, health care, telecommunications, transportation, and education opportunities, so we can offer people good conditions when they come up with important factors. This concluded resolution, and particularly the opinion of the committee, a respectable president, will answer all the questions that may arise around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u104	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson spoke of his joy as one of the people who agreed on this proposal. This is so that all groups of people on the job committees are on the committee as a function of the committee. A senator read up earlier, except for the one standing here. I'll admit that I had to read the synopsis very often because I needed to understand what it was, since it is very public and very vague and so far, and that's where I am and that's where I work a lot on the international sector. But as I read it more often, I saw that the international sector and the companies we know mentioned in the suggestion, such as Marel, Actavis, Plain Vanilla, and others, were to have the bread crumbs off the table. The fact is that the new investor in energy-rich industry was to make such good use of the international sector. That's what I read out of the suggestion. There is no clear emphasis and goals on what to do exactly. Of course, the aforementioned opinion of the majority of the objects explains a little more and more emphasis on energy, stating that it needs to be shown to the other. I'd like to explain that this is why I don't have the opinion, and I'm sorry we don't talk about this stuff, i.e. new investors, about things other than this old-fashioned industry or, forgive, energy - consuming industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u105	A respectable president. I feel like when I hear what I'm talking about. A member of the council said that there is a mischievous sense here, asking her to read a little more. From what I studied in my speech and what I read from the committee's opinion, I do not understand what you can understand as a focus on the energy - consuming industry. We come into the distinction, and it is important to realize when we talk about the big business and when we talk about the energy - related industry? The focus is placed on the energy - related industry. We set the limit at the 15 to 50 megawatts. Energy - carrying industry, as we have defined it in these aluminium regions specifically and herbal factories, is even a number of hundreds of megawatts. There's a big difference. I specifically went into that direction that we weren't looking in that direction. Everyone agrees on that. We're looking to innovation, to enhance variety, to the instruments in it. It is not suitable for the country to meet its members. For example, I have had serious doubts about a building near Skagga Beach. I think that's impossible and it's just nonsense. I think we're supposed to go into something completely different there, but we have to put on something there. A respectable president. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir, who has had a very good cooperation with us on the job committee, should take a closer look at this. I don't know what the Senate allows in that regard, but I hope she snaps on the committee with all of us and joins the team. This has a bright future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u106	A respectable president. You don't snap on that kind of opinion or a pact thing you don't like. It is sometimes that things are unambiguously put forward to say this - and that is what I fear about this proposal, since it is likely to be accepted at the council and expected to have much more because there are other groups than the future. Land induction wanted a clear addition to the proposal, especially in comments that depend on new investors and on the affairs of the energy industry. The majority responded and expressed their understanding of Iceland's unique status, which is tithing in the synonym, stressing the use of the energy available here that can be activated. That's why I say, I'm worried that if the proposal that we have here is going to be accepted, we can go to the highest level. The Minister of Industrial Affairs and the Government all said, 'Look, this is where the Congress has confirmed a synonym, which says that in order for us to get more companies up here to the country, we need more energy. I don't exist in it or to place my name on it and that's what I'll never do. That's why I think the proposal is risky.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u107	A respectable president. I don't know if I should understand a word or not. A senator may object to the fact that there is more energy in the country. She said it directly that she couldn't put her name on getting more energy. It is now like punching your head at the stone not to confront the problem that is developing in that field compared to the general increase in electricity consumption in the country. I've heard this agent on the same level talk that we're supposed to increase transport electricalization, increase cars electricalization. Where's the energy to get it from? And that's how I can talk for a long time. They object that we're connected to the banks of the country's electricity, so the fleet doesn't have to burn diesel when the ships are docked, i.e. Can they be connected to land electricity? You can't do that today. But it costs up to 10 megawatts for the biggest rejections, especially where the cruise ships arrive. I think you just need to sit down and start making up with things, how they're gonna be, and look at the facts and just tell them clearly what they want. Our committee list of members of the Parliament's resolution states, by permission of the president: The Commission stated that energy industry and industry would need to be distinguished from the rest of the industry. Energy industry generally refers to an enterprise requiring e.g. Fifty-five fifty megawatts for their business were involved, e.g. The mention of electricalization is rejected, but up to 10 megawatts are needed for larger ports. There is plenty of access to energy that affords great opportunities. to promote innovation and knowledge industry in the technical and scientific fields. An outstanding example of this is interesting projects that have been seen in the area of the Marine mall and in the area of the park's resource resources. Whether large or small, we need energy for all these projects. It's just that way. [[The president calls.]] If we can't move it to these scattered settlements first, they'll just be ahead of us in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u108	A respectable president. Here I present the view of the memory of the part of my own body and the council of the Bjarts future, as it were. I'm gonna read it up and then I'm gonna go over it a little bit. A bright future puts much emphasis on strengthening the environment for new investments in Iceland and on the general nature of such measures. It is important that measures are in the spirit of sustainable development and long-term development, and there are creative articles of an important factor that cannot be overlooked in policy development as such. In policy development, it is important to work on goals to achieve them. Therefore, it is important to present and give evidence of how new investors' policy will achieve the desired objectives. This need to be clear about the routes to take on the induction of policy. Will its actions be universal or specific? Does it mean that they will bring in additional benefits for the sake of a government fund or a community? How does Neo investing policy rhyme with basic human life, environment, and economy? Looking at equal, competitive ways, nature protection, etc.? During the last term, a bright future took the initiative that the council adopted an ambitious investment plan. In it capitals were greatly increased to competitive funds in the field of creative articles, research, innovation, and development of green industry. This policy was based on careful analysis of parishes in new investors in Iceland and the key to funding was to follow policy. Therefore, it is not a matter of greeting the proposal presented here. The minority feels that in the proposal, there is a lack of clear identification. As a result, reasoning support is lacking. Most of those who submitted a review to the Committee were positive for promoting new investments, but it was critical that wording was in general as well as a lack of clear suggestions. The minority feels that the general expression of the proposal leads to differences in understanding of the subject. The minority points out that business agencies rejoice that the international sector is being made higher. Business council prefers to define the global sector in the same way as the McKinsey report does. as any Icelandic company working in international competition and not building on the use of limited natural resources. In this light, the Management Board welcomes the proposal and encourages the government to concentrate on providing the general terms for investment in all sectors instead of giving an advantage to certain sectors or companies over others. It's business understanding, and it's business business. The review of the Agency calls for a clearer understanding of the synonym. It also points to the definition of the law on the inquisitors of new investors in Iceland, No. 41/2015, but the Agency believes they can cover the point of the proposal. This law assumes that individual companies will get the will of others. The review of Land-activations and the former opinions of the majority of the objects is of great interest. Land activation welcomes the proposal and claims that they would like to see an addition to the proposal, especially in comments to it, which are subject to new investments and activities related to the energy industry. The majority respond by describing their understanding of Iceland's unique status, focusing on using the energy available here and being activated. Since the synonym is blurred, there are clearer lines and measures in the opinion of the greater part. I'd like to state it, Mr. Honorable President, that I like it. I want people to talk clearly. It's great that the more part does. But it has the highest support for the energy - efficient industry in the region. The smaller part, and we in the short future, take heart with much of the importance of promoting electricity transport systems and bringing the whole country into light. However, we want to draw attention to the fact that the more important matters are already being developed and that some developments have been taken care of by the Council. In terms of new invest policies, the majority of the more part prefer to focus on the region. It is suggested that the ESA's map be used to deal with the indiscretions that completely separate the capital area. The majority further improve and feel that the willingness to adopt other based maps on land or national policy may be increased by increasing distances from the capital area. A bright future believes that a new investment policy applies to the whole country. Such policy must be supported by all areas of the country, including the capital area. In order to achieve the desired effect, the policy for innovation must ensure that measures are general, not being given to some, but not to others, and contribute to sustainable long-term development. The last, most dignified president, is a firm guide for us in a bright future. We were one group who was opposed, and we voted against the building agency's framework, not according to its paraphrase, No. 41/2015, a law on coincidences to new investors, because our politics is that we don't want special interests. We do not want companies to be able to approach members of Congress, and they support specific projects in their district, as has, unfortunately, often been the case. Now they've moved something into the Ministry too, and it's fine if there's a review committee there. Our politics is to fight for the general conditions, taxable conditions for the survival of new investing and businesses, and that some should not get more than others. It is this way, although many people have been told in this hall that invigorates cost nothing, companies are given discounts from taxes and taxes from countries and taxes and taxes and fees, of course, are used for something. There are others who pay taxes and fees, and it is used to build wood, for example. electric lines, as we have discussed here, build roads. This is what we do for the tax dollars. Of course, some do not have to be involved with them mean an increase in cost to others. Then it is a cost to the person who has paid his taxes. Thus, it is impossible to say that the will of God does not cost anything. It was interesting to me that reporters understand this synopsis in different ways. This is not surprising, though, for as I said in answer to what happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson I myself had to read the proposal very often in order to put my arms around her. But you're drawing up what you're getting at. That's what I feel to be a new investor in a particular large industry. The theory is that if it is permitted to do so, it will benefit in another way. It may well be, but I disagree with that policy and want us to focus more on smaller companies, creative articles, knowledge industry. I don't want these companies to come somehow, by way of us giving these bigger ones, I'm not gonna say big business because I know that more things have taken a big part from their committee party or aren't about it, but we're still dealing with the energy-efficient industry. [[Take it up: connected.]] Energy-related or energy-rich industry. I want other emphasis. I've kind of considered what I wanted to say in my speech about this proposal for Congress. Today, we are on the pro board on two issues from the highest level. Industrial Minister, just two cases, and this is the second thing. As if it were me, she wouldn't have had to make this up, because this synopsis is about coincidence, and it's over and she's over against a frame of thought about coincidence. Why is our time being spent on this? Perhaps there is nothing else that we can do from the highest. Minister. It is clear, however, that the companies mentioned in the Parliament resolution as an example of the Icelandic genetic analysis Actavis, Nox Medical, Minentis Cura, Marel, Plain Vanilla, 66°N are to be enjoyed in some way. It is the idea that the global sector will benefit from larger energy-related enterprises, larger enterprises requiring large amounts of energy, getting coincidences. I think there's something very clear to say so people can understand what's going on. So much of the part has made it work by its opinion, because they have put the focus completely on the country's settlement and gone out of their way to block out the capital area, the Great Reygúsvík area, out of this package, we're not involved, for example, at all. a company such as Plain Vanilla, located in the capital area. We're not talking about it. It's not the content of this synonym, except perhaps indirectly, if economic growth is just... I want a focus on this field of knowledge. I am so often in this council hall much more right person than any independent person in this room, and it seems interesting to me, because I don't want to see the coincidences of some people. I'd like to see a general tax policy for a company so they can survive here. When I came to this assembly, I thought it was something independence would like, but I've never seen them serve any suggestion in that direction, not the law we were talking about earlier, about inquisitors. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. We in a bright future will vote against this council-sense proposal on the basis that I've crossed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u109	A respectable president. I'm trying to get my mind crossed. A senator who believes he is on the right of the Independence Party when it comes to creating good tax conditions. Of course, the independent party in this government has shown that it is working in that direction. For example, it has been very important for every store and service in the country to cancel all the goods and tolls, for example. And to represent agreements made by agrienvironmental ministers to the European Union on increasing access to markets for EU food production, to name something. I just want to have a conversation. A senator who repeatedly fell into the pit I was trying to warn in my speech earlier, to misinformed matters when talking about the energy - related industry. She spoke repeatedly about the energy - efficient industry. This is made clear in the leading list of objects. This is exactly what we make for special publicity, a respectable president, the importance of distinguishing energy - carrying industry from energy - related industry. We're drawing the line somewhere on 5 to 50 megawatts, of course they're estimating. But in other cases, we're talking about something bigger than that, which has become energy - efficient. I want some of it. To answer my question, does she not understand it as much as most of the committee do, that we do not stress the energy - consuming industry at all? We highlight the rest, the knowledge industry, the innovation, the secondary articles from our basic fields. [[The president calls.]] But all of this requires energy and thus becomes industrial energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u110	I can't help but smile at other things because of what I'm doing. A senator well knows how the matter was and talked about it. The work programme for the implementation of this committee opinion. I'm not going to get into it because there's something that happened at a meeting and I don't think it's mine to tell. But I disagreed with some members there. I disagreed with much of the emphasis on the majority opinion, and we know how it was discussed. And then maybe it just ended up a little milder, this committee opinion of the greater part, and that's good. But I just say that my views do not harmonize with the opinion that was most appropriate. Again and again, I reiterate to policy on new investments is of utmost importance, and there is so much opportunity to describe exactly how we're going to support a wide variety of trends in how we build up all the foundations here. And I was disappointed that in the last issue of this magazine, there were creative articles and what was to be brought.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u111	A respectable president. The discussion on the committee was very controversial and good. There was a view of increasing the relevance of the climate conference. There was a total agreement that we were following the policy established by the government among the world's progressive nations, as we put it in the committee view. I think the discussion was very objective and good. Of course, it was suggested that committee partying, and then there were opinions, and we met, i.e. Except for a bright future that I miss not being with us on this journey. A bright future is to develop some special position in this matter that I feel is partly involved in it. A senator spoke earlier, and I would like to ask her a few questions. It's these coincidences. In many ways I can agree with the opinions that have been overlooked. A senator says that our tax environment should only be so attractive that we do not need to be incarcerated. I miss the bright future when they have not put their ideas into practice in this regard. How does the company's tax environment, the environment, want a bright future to create a situation where it doesn't need any special attraction? It is good to mention Ireland in what has been the longest countries in the European Union who have been taxing on business. There's a tax at a commercial level of 12%. It doesn't make any difference that Ireland has one of the largest pack-infestations offered. They also attract a wide range of foreign jobs, have achieved the greatest success of all European countries. Despite this general tax environment, they have a very strong repair package. The fact is, a respectable president, that we are in a much competitive environment when it comes to attracting the diversity of the industry to the country. [[The president calls.]] The latest government outlining it comes from the industrial minister she's reported to have, but it's just to raise the pay on films in Iceland in 25%. That is exactly why we can respond to this competition, that we are superior to other nations, and that we will be chosen for this important career situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u112	A respectable president. I know what we're doing. A senator agrees on many things. What we agree on, if I understand him correctly, is that it would be best not to be incarcerated. I miss it when it doesn't go unnoticed by the groups running here. Hv. The chairman of this council is a member of this committee and should be able to handle these matters. It has been made clear that a bright future, for example, wants to reduce insurance. There's no new news.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u113	That's a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u114	Plan is not the same as doing things. There's no use talking, it's got to do things. [[Up front.]] You need to simplify all the details around running a business in Iceland. It's too expensive to start societies. [[tain in: Online travel.]] Social security, yes, it would be nice to have the highest priority. The Minister of Industrial Affairs would use something in this social security travel, but she's not going to do it. I miss the fact that there's no way that there's any action to be made. A senator says he agrees with me. I'd rather see it than this relic package.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-15-88.u115	Mr. President. We're talking about a council proposal for a new investment policy. There's been an excellent debate over the council arrangement, and it seems like it's for whom it's going on. It has been observed that an excellent solid solidarity was established in the Committee on the Committee's View with a change of motion, outside the Bjart's representative of the future. paritaprevir That's what Ólafsdóttir has done. Of course, in the Committee, there was much discussion about the synonym, which I think is largely expressed in the general sense that most people can agree with what it says, although it may always be said to add, and I proposed it on the Committee on the climate goals. It was achieved, and we left greens with great joy of achieving it. This article will help you to understand why you need to make adjustments. On the 4th cycle, 1.mg. The proposal will be added: including in view of Iceland's commitment to the United Nations Climate Conference in December 2015. I think it's very enjoyable that the addition of this and the careful understanding of the Committee opinion, which I believe, in effect, the importance of the Senate arrangement for new investors would have been much more than otherwise. I certainly sign this committee's opinion in advance and 10 percent of my warnings in it, that I highlight the importance of speeding up the development of national infrastructure to meet the demands of greater wealth, good housing conditions and increased potential for new investors. Furthermore, in March 2012, I give high priority to the interpretation of the growth of the green economy in Iceland, which was adopted at the General Assembly with all votes, the importance of creative articles, innovations, research and development of sectoral sectors, the diversity and encouraging environment of small and medium-sized enterprises. I wanted to emphasize these views in general, and our left green focus on the work structure and how we provide for ourselves job structure, newinvestment and the introduction of public members to them, i.e. how we want to see that development in the future. That's exactly what's being said in the poll, and it was presented in a case at any given moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of a professional employment committee, that the time of a major industry is really over and we have to look to other employment opportunities, certainly employment tools that use energy, it will be difficult to avoid, but are much smaller energy users than the energy efficient industry, which has certainly been the industry of the new investments of the years, and is time to turn from that track and look to the environmentally less energy users and creative factors. Illustrating articles have been driving in Icelandic employment for a very long time, and these articles are always growing stronger. I think we need to really look at them in future investors, that the entire environment, the rest of society's infrastructure, is so that potential creative reports are good, that potential for building up is the best. I believe that everything presented in the synonym will support this, but, of course, all of this depends on the funding of the government and the investment plan to follow in the future in support of such a synonym, for no matter how good such a synopsis is, it is not relevant to it unless the government really follows it in action plan and budget. In this regard, I would like to call attention to the plan for investment that was adopted during the last terms and that was funded. It considered a more potent structure in society, both in public and private structures in creative branches and in the support of innovation and knowledge industry, and in infrastructure, such as transport and other similar structures. I'd also like to refer to the green economy, as I mentioned in my advance. There we stressed that the growth of the green economy is a priority in the commercial policy of the Icelandic government. I think that's one thing the government hasn't done, and it really needs to look to it. I do not see in myself any of this conjugal proposal as if it were working against the expansion of the green economy, but it would have been good to see that it had been put in place specifically in relation to the UN climate goals and the obligation that rests on us who are living this world today working to promote green economy and sustain the world's prosperity, which, of course, is very urgent. I'm going to give a few points about the proposals that were involved in the growth of the green economy in that relationship, and here I suggest that eco-efficiency will be defined as a special focus point in the policy of public energy companies, so that the choice of energy buyers will be fundamental to the full demand for profit. I'm moving on. A green competitive fund will be established as part of a Technical Development Fund that will strengthen environmentally friendly innovation projects in a special way in relation to the definitions of the United Nations. And go on: A new fund of employment will be committed to working on the establishment and operation of a green investment fund in cooperation with domestic and foreign investors. The role of the fund must be invested in environmental technology and environmental activities. Which now fits the issue we are considering. There will be five years of effort to increase foreign investments in green employment, including by using access to Article 15. track No. 99/2010, about new investors coincidences. When selecting a task, the definition of green jobs will be laid down. The campaign will hide. in particular economic analysis of the green economy in Iceland, val of emphasis, mapping of more efficient investors, promotion and marketing. Under this matter, regarding the growth of the green economy, there were 48 suggestions, all very practical suggestions, and I expect the government to look to them in the implementation of this Parliament-sounding proposal for new investors. It is of utmost importance to take advantage of the work being done in the form of a synonym, where the public and experts from all sides came to the work that was very good, and all agreed, as I mentioned. In my advance, I come up with requirements for infrastructure and infrastructure in modern society. It was discussed in a matter of course. paritaprevir It Björt Ólafsdóttir that too much emphasis was placed on working construction in the country, and as I understood the reason. A senator, perhaps at the expense of the capital area. But that's just how it is today that the big capital area has a huge advantage over the country. Of course, there are many settlements. They're not all the same. Some of these, perhaps in the Eyjafjörður, are better off and around the area that is now building up around Húsavík. However, the country's wide range of habitats lacks this infrastructure and infrastructure to make it more attractive to enter the newinvestments. Therefore, I like that the will is well emphasized, which is shown in the Senate resolution and is very well emphasized in the Committee's opinion that its infrastructure and infrastructure will be regarded in the country so that there can be a competitive opportunity to enter the region by means of new investments. Then it's in my opinion that I didn't get the wrong opinion of the committee, as I thought it would be. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir and I do, that we are once again talking about the big business when talking about industry or employment that uses less energy. Of course, when we talk about the energy - efficient industry, we are talking about big business, but when we talk about smaller energy users, we are looking up, as mentioned earlier, 10 megawatts, and perhaps as much as 50 megawatts. However, the way things develop will be up to date. We've got tools, frameworks, sorting in protection, use and waiting party. Of course, we never, in my opinion, go beyond the framework we put ourselves in that regard. Just looking at the infrastructure structure - I really feel like we're missing inside the Senate resolution what we're at at the back of the metropolitan building. Then I'm talking about, like... the transport systems of electricity in the country that have come to their own years. Even if the renewal's going on, it's going way too slow. That is where we really need to speed up structure. And also for high-speed connections to meet companies that want to come and put into place companies that are involved in the information industry and creative articles. All of this requires high - speed connections in the country and a powerful transport system that also has a powerful capacity. Don't forget that. A meeting is being held at Isafjörður for the status and outlook of electricity issues in the fourth quarter. That's where they're not all right. Electricity safety is bad, high levels of unsecured electricity enter the region of an enterprise and needs to be cut down and to run backup stations to deal with the removal of unsecured electricity, impaired electricity. Therefore, it is very important to support the delivery safety there, ensure good transport systems and establish a cyclic connection. It has been considered as a activation option, such as the Whale River, which is used by proben. There, environmentally friendly development has been seen in the secondary sectors, in the resources found in the region, whether it is paralytics that have been discussed in the material or structure around salmon farms and the secondary branches in both the marine soil and agriculture. But to improve such secondary articles and structure based on the resources of the region, the infrastructure needs to be in order. Therefore, I repeat again and again that it is very bad how governments have pulled their feet through infrastructure, such as transportation, and that transport is not yet being planned. We have a lot of articles that don't require much energy. I strongly emphasize that they are also viewed as creative, whether we are looking at film production, which has now been increasing and increasing the number of jobs and creating a lot of currency, or to companies like CCP in the knowledge industry and other parallels. Or to the music. In Iceland, the music sector has been creating a lot of currency money. The musical festival Iceland Airweaves, who has pondered enormous sums of money over the past few years, is a currency creation for the festival always to increase. We have a lot of fancy musicians who have been doing good things and have contributed a great deal of money to the nation and currency. To this end, we need to watch as we look at new investing policies for the future in Iceland and all the articles that I mentioned and other environmentally friendly articles that have the best possible technologies to pollute as little as possible. I believe this matter has grown to such an extent that we, fortunately, have been able to get together from different angles, but we may be aware of the different priorities of our discussion. However, our main objective is to approach the same place, which I think is very good - perhaps either end of environmental and industrial activities - that we feel that the time of the industry has passed and we have to look to another type of work and build up in Iceland for the future.
