ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u1	A respectable president. The president of Iceland has said that my proposal has written such a written letter: Iceland's number tells: The Prime Minister has told me that there is a contingency between classes of representatives in the Council, as is the new release of law No. 89/2016, on changes to the General Assembly Act, No. 55/1991 to speed up the general election to the Council. Suggested as Prime Minister and referred to Article 24. The Constitution, No. 33/144, as modified by 5.g. Constitution, No. 51/1991, scr. Twenty-one. Is it a law to vote for the U.S. Council, No. 24/2000, by appeal to the I.D., it is decided that Congress will be terminated on 29 October 2016 and that general elections for the General Assembly will be held on the same day. End of up in Reykjavík, September 20, 2016. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. U.S. Senate Presidential Letters and General elections for the Council. A respectable president. On September 8 of the last year, the Allied council adopted a law on the Council of Congress. By the law, the current legislation of legislatures, the 145th legislature, was extended until October 29th. The extension of the legislature of the Council was based on plans for the General election to be carried out that day. By the letter of the president I have read here, they are legally established. I insist that the council may continue, although a violation of Congress has been announced, members of the Parliament continue their commission until their final day, as stated in Article 24. The constitution. However, as always in the controversy of elections, I am assuming that meetings will be suspended on an appropriate basis for election day-by-day, according to the General's new strategy and example, as the General Assembly was able to complete the releases of the existing issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u2	Mr. President. I'm glad there's been a council breach proposal. It's a long time. V.E.G. However, a government has recently become virtually out of operation, and if we had chosen in our own time as it was required, it would have been long ago a functioning government in the country. But now the proposal has arrived, and the election is on October 29th, and that's good. We are now in violation of a council and vote for failure of trust and confidentiality between the nation and the government. Let us not forget why elections are held sooner than expected. Let us not forget that the election period is reduced by one assembly due to scandals involving the former prime minister and, in fact, other government advisers that were discovered in the Panama papers. Six months ago, the family of prime minister was advised to keep their money in the tax industry and the minister himself told lies about the matter. Afterward, in discussions in the community that followed, the passwords were depravity and taxes, followed by a discussion of how tax shelter is best used by those who want to get their money away from the tax and at the same time let others share their share in the welfare system. Righteous anger broke out in the community, the common people rose up and protested in the largest protests in this country, and the demand was: An election immediately. Current level. In fact, the government offered the public a compromise on elections this fall. Thus, there are not regular times and elections ahead of us, not traditional. The whole body has little trust for the nation, and we need to find a solution to that problem. Of course, the General is just the instrument of the nation's control of our own land, and we senators are but a tooth wheel in that process, and we are required to do our duty well and to be absolutely careful in word and deed. In the coming days, the union will bring out the heart of its members and request the support of the people of the land to create a healthy and good society for all, regardless of rank or rank. During the election season, government decisions that lie down especially with those who are very well aware of their health and education systems have been prominent. Men talk about gooder people than older citizens or poorer people, at least they have not enjoyed their blessings in terms of improved or repetitive payment. It's time to end. The alliance will work hard to settle matters and the issues that will be settled in the short time remaining. There are other cases waiting for a new council and a new government. It's important to get to the top. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. During the last few weeks of the council, the president will put forth an earnest effort to make a good agreement between all groups and the council complete in its own due time, as a new strategy is expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u3	Mr. President. All of us understand why we are engaged in an election at this unusual time. This was a direct result of a former prime minister's resigning after he had lied about his family's property in an ethnic society. In fact, this exposure was exposed to all the systematic differences we live in this society where the few more prosperous ones can avail themselves of their position to benefit even more while all the people live by the rules we have set for society in employment life and in the interests of people and individuals. The public was exposed to the fact that in this land there are two nations, and this division is based on division. At the same time, the political and public became very confidential, and this matter, as it were, has brought the whole state of politics to a halt. It is very serious for us who want to work in politics and want to allow us to continue in political affairs, for the task must build trust in politics that has failed, but also to establish convincing policies on how we are going to pursue it and to trust that in this country, one nation will play by the same rules and live in the same terms, that we are in the same boat and course in the same way as a nation. The government situation suggested that our last spring be chosen. That proposal was rejected by the government. It was a proposal for the government to vote in the fall. It was a long time to give a clear view of when the election should be, which was also not reassuring to politics in general. But I'm glad that this date has been set, regardless of how anyone might feel about it, and I'm glad that this proposal has come out so that the election can be prepared normally. It is presented today after our left - green senator actually reminded us at the beginning of a council job yesterday that we were waiting for this proposal and it was a long time ago that we could have had an extracurricular standing. I hope we haven't had the rights of many of those who have to take advantage of an extra-election song by making it so late. Mr. President. I rejoice that this proposal has come into existence, and I really hope that the people of the country will take advantage of their rights in elections on October 29 and choose politicians and movements that they rely on to ensure that there is one community and good society for all regardless of whether they are elderly or desperate, children or adults, regardless of what we do or do, and choose politicians and movements that are willing to make a effort to build up trust in politics, which is not lacking in our democracies and, in fact, a key factor for our democracies.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u4	A respectable president. I'm glad this proposal has come out. The fact that it has been published eliminates the uncertainty about whether or when it would be chosen. There's a very unusual and special situation in Icelandic politics and it's been a long time. All this year, Icelandic political bitch has been in confusion, the public has been unsure about what was going on, who was running, whether it's gonna be chosen, and when. It's really not until we get a letter to the Council that the doubt is finally put down. We are in a hurry to vote because the government's confidentiality, the highest. present prime minister, spring. We have been involved in Icelandic politics in the straitjackets of uncertainty for months since it appears that all discussions are more about individuals and political positions than about the issues of the public and the political issues involved. This uncertainty has taken a space from a discussion of the interests of the public. Therefore, it is a special joy to have a date at elections - of course, we would have liked to choose in our own kind, as with the government groups proposed, but at the General Assembly - so that this doubt is gone and can be turned to the matter of politics, of discussing matters, of campaigns, where the issues matter is more important than men, where the parties lay down and where we can get to work properly. This government's small, productive government has established many very important cases in its final meters, and I warn of willingness at that work. We know that the world will not end or begin on October 29th in elections. Life will continue, important political issues will continue. I'm glad we're back on our jobs and we're working as hard as we can, but we're not willing, and if we can't finish our business, we're going to put them ahead of elections. There's nothing dangerous about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u5	President. It's a pleasure to be able to erase the uncertainty of whether or not to cancel the earlier campaign. Last night, the head of the Independence Party, the highest. When I asked a question about a particular subject, Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister, had to admit that I felt uncomfortable moving through the council without the fact that it had to do some reporting, and answered the highest degree. A minister like this, with president's permission: ▪ If that situation arises as we speak. A senator here mentioned we should extend this council. I think this case is the fact that we should not let the council complete its work without finishing it. Of course, I rejoice that we now finally know with absolute confidence that the election will be announced, and it will take place on October 29th. How important it is not to forget why that situation came up! That's extremely important. Here, the largest protests in Iceland after the nation was completely humiliated internationally once again because of the rulers of the country. Here, over 22,000 came to call for the resignation of the then prime minister, more than 22,000 who called for that government to depart. The Congress is running out, and we have been here much longer than we had in spring when the newly appointed government, with a new prime minister, decided to shorten the terms of one assembly. Now we are quite deep into this council. It's not going to be chosen in the fall, it's going to be in the winter. I am deeply concerned that there will be a quick attempt to push through very complex and complex issues that can, in fact, be found a parapolitic solidarity. Therefore, I would like to challenge the senators, the governors, and the government itself to give space so that we can have a careful legal system. There are a lot of cases on committees, especially the Economic and Business Committee, where I am an audition agent, who are designed to make them not ready. They haven't been tested by other laws, they haven't been made up of money from institutions to enforce that law, and I don't think it's easy for us to go through with the big case that really no one has yet seen, who are involved in changes in pension rights. So this is the case, if it's recorded here and it hasn't been checked to see if there's any error in it or if there's a general agreement in it in the community and that you can't even have a chance to get an opinion, and reviews, I'm deeply worried about the respect of the Generals and their position. I challenge all of the people here to find ways to deal with the issues we agree on and deal with them, but we still leave the issues that will work well. I think it is very important that we learn from what has taken place during the election season and in reality during the last term, as members of Congress, against better judgment, began to work against one another because the other was not in the right team. We've been dealing with very difficult things in this society, and people don't have much confidence in us. So I hope it will be a great pleasure to see how we will build trust. We can do it well. One thing we can do is, for example, to let those who are going to vote in the coming election know what the groups intend to work together in advance. It's a long time that we start working our way in the North countries where the emphasis is and what the media will be made for elections. People have grown tired of being lied to. You can't offer people to act as if they've got a 100% share. It's not like that, and it's never been, luckily. Now, I hope we're about to start sailing into a time where people can work cross-cuttingly that long - term programs instead of what seems to happen happen happen, that what was good done and done well, and the best thing was done by the former government, which is taken apart by the next. It's not good for the public in the country. I hope we learn from all these endless mistakes that have become accepted for decades here in Iceland and resolve to make a different practice. Piranians will emphasize that there will be a major challenge, trying to get people to work together on long - term solutions to the health system, the marine espionage system, the educational system, the administration, and especially the practices that are committed at the order of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u6	A respectable president. On October 29th, the vote is now scheduled, and this assembly will soon end. It's gonna be a quick one, and hopefully it's gonna be a good time, a meal-traveled struggle that's going to be over the next few weeks. There's going to be a lot of lines between groups that are offered because no matter how many times we talk about good cooperation and consultation, there's some ideological differences in politics, and he doesn't put people away so cheerfully. People stand on their own, but they can make up some sort of event that cannot be agreed on. We're in politics, and we're campaigning to attract people to them groups and to the emphasis and ideism we're in. That's how the election's going to be. In this way, the campaign struggle should be a clear message to voters as to what the categories represent and those who make that list. There must be a voter, you and me and these normal people in this country because the people sitting here are also voters. We will then walk to the board and send a clear message to the classes about who should be authorized to continue in the administration or how to vote. The usual practice is that those who have won the biggest campaign or are the largest group being authorized by a president for the development of government. Respect the right of voters to choose, to choose between the ideologies, and also to tell their story about men and matters in the prerogative of elections without us politicians running up to the hands and feet and calling others than those who agree with us, I only use such pleasant words, fools or anyone who knows, because the people in the country know what they want. I welcome this conclusion, a respectable president. I know my squad is on its way to the election. I can't wait to be on the sidelines and watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u7	V.E.G. President. Already when Congress ends, many important cases await payment. In spite of everything and the discussion mentioned earlier, I would like to say that the matter of Congress is going quite well. There are some very positive and good things, if I may say so, a respectable president who has been on the program, and much solid agreement has been involved. I would like to mention the Paris Convention and the United Nations Convention on the Issues of Disappointment. Yesterday, at the General Assembly, we have confirmation of the high-level plagion of the contract. The Environment and Resource Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir signed for Iceland's hand in Paris earlier this year. We will be one of the good people and at the head of a contract of the United Nations General Assembly. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir can confirm the validation. Moreover, we runners are very proud of the fact that these two were the most powerful. Our ministers will accept this important agreement in port, which will if the likelihood of a future has a major impact on all Iceland's decisions and objectives, and on the environment, on climate and environment. Later this afternoon, we will complete a subsequent debate on the synonym's outcome. Secretary of State to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. On the other hand, we have other ships, like what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was well reported on in a comprehensive history for the members of the committee. A foreign relations committee that stated that it would not be unmistakably on the part of the government that it would take so long to validate the contract rights of disabled persons. The rest I must say, a respectable president, to the point. A committee has taken over time and has worked hard and fast. I hope it's so great. The Minister of Foreign Minister Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir followed this and completed the validation process for the current General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u8	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk about transport and employment construction today, but first I have to mention one subject. I read in the news that the mayor, Dagur Eggertsson Elegtsson, suggested that the design problems at the local theaters might even be solved by getting older citizens to work. I'd like to say, then, that the Theocratic Ministry School is very difficult. This requires years of university education. The responsibility of caring for and teaching young children is great. The pay is by no means in line with education and responsibilities. So I have to say, the mayor's doing this to pay off his high school teaching work. Schools aren't security. But now the matter is to be settled. Last week, I had the opportunity to attend a settlement conference held in Breinddalsvík. There were many interesting subjects on the results of various research based on localities. The importance of rural society's having a clear employment policy was considered, that the main structure is in line with that, etc. All of that is totally albino and fine for one's part. But in the coffee pan, I talked to a young farmer in Southeast, who is trying to build up tourism and food production. There I heard the same story I've heard many times before, i.e. the lack of fiber optics and the lack of three-phase electricity is in the hands of cleaning jobs. You see, they don't need opportunities in the countryside. They do not lack the will and motivation of young people to build up. What is lacking is the wealth and achievement of the government. The young farmer said in the coffee pan: We can really just stop talking about policy and organization when we don't even get a three - phase electricity and fiber optics. I agree with the young farmer. A year - long wait for useful electricity is not an acceptable, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u9	Mr. President. The success of women's professional careers, FKA, held an interesting seminar this morning reporting the results of a new study on the part of the sexes in the media. It revealed that 67% of cases refer to the human photon medium, 33% of women. If this was a significant improvement since the last study, women's share had increased by 3%. Today, in 2016, we still have these proportions, in which many other nations are still standing, yet they can be won so slowly. The meeting discussed ways to cope with this deeply entrenched discrimination. I have to say, in view of the fact that there are politicians and those who are involved in politics who are the most frequent media references to news and news related information, there is a great deal of the responsibility of the political parties, along with the responsibility of the media. We often hear that it is important for women to act, that women say yes more often, that women take the initiative. But women certainly have. What needs to be looked at is the systematic discrimination in which the political parties must take responsibility to ensure the equal share of the sexes. And the media must also take the responsibility to reflect the fact that women are half of all Icelanders. This deeply entrenched discrimination will never be solved by pointing out individual women and by making excuses as if they still hear that women are not attending interviews because they are caring for children or driving. It's just been a long time, Mr. President. This does not apply to women who are involved in politics, I can only assure all parties. It is the institutions of society that have to take action, and the political parties have as much responsibility as the media do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u10	V.E.G. President. All of us want to have access to good health care. At the same time, each member of the family should have access to health care regardless of the economy, status, or residence. We have good health institutions around the country that have been through unity in recent years, with the goal of strengthening their network and making them more effective in carrying out more work. However, the overall policy within the medical system is lacking to regulate the services and to better use the financial resources of the system. Of course, there is a need to continue adding funding to the system as the present government has been doing during this terms. It is time for the next step, so that the uniting of health institutions will return what was intended for it. In order to achieve this, a definition of the country's health care needs to be made. I need a health plan for Iceland. In this context, there is a need to include To look at populations, population development, distances, and transports. A health-based strategy must be linked to an indiscriminate community strategy. This includes: magazines to help employees pay taxes on travel to and from work. In this context, you might be able to watch driving between health care centres. At the same time, the possibility of using the student loan system should be considered in such a way as to give a discount to qualified experts, e.g. in debridement centres. That's one of the things we candidates want to stress, and right now we're already working on the proposals in this facility and we're going to enjoy seeing what they're going to look like in the end. We are to use the tools we have for the benefit of the people of the land and at the same time build up a powerful nation - wide service.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u11	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, Ragnah, mentioned earlier, said that politics was a matter of ideologies. Now we're saying goodbye to a government whose right policy has been to its own ideologies and whose actions are marked. Happily, this government was very inactive and had no strength to destroy much of our welfare systems that it could have done. But it has also produced complete wealth in all its infrastructure. That's where we'll see a sign. The work it has done is for the rich and the more prosperous. Now in the last record, major challenges have taken place in the treatment of the council, such as fundamental changes in the social security system and fundamental changes in the equality of public resources. We are also finally held by a transport program. Travel in the country has not established a high priority for this government in financing, but now the last record begins to be shown and praised. There are over 100 billion people on the equation of pension rights, over 5 billion on the social security system, and more than 11 billion on transport. It's not really a credible thing or a good way to bring such a series of paintings 15 minutes before elections. Of course, this government should let the government that will be formed after the next election take over the cylinder and do the great work here in the last record. We can't let these projects pay the price of elections. [[The president calls.]] We're going to have a problem, and we're not going to settle any issues here in haste because there's a day after this day and a government after that government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u12	A respectable president. Here we are in the last days of this assembly, according to the Supreme Work Programme. President, big business for discussion. Of course, it's what came in yesterday, the pension rights, perhaps the largest, since the news has become that unions, states and societies, have come to an agreement, and it takes place within the so-called SALEK meeting of 2018, to change the systems we know about pension rights because we see and have seen long that the systems do not live on. It may be the highest rate of some 90 billion injections in the system from the State. I find this very interesting, and we continue to fix these systems, so we don't save the problem for future generations. But, of course, I'd like to know if this is the case, if you'll excuse me for dropping, for once. Or are we going to face the same problem after perhaps 20 years? I need to know if we're fixing and changing systems properly so we're not always sitting in the soup and dealing with the same thing in a few years. Of course, we members of the Parliament were entrusted with responsibility in this term, dealing with matters. That's what we have time to do. This was a council violation proposal for the election on October 29th. Until then, it's six weeks. Let us dive into this matter as we can in the meantime to try to handle that acceptable solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u13	President. Is there any good now? Yeah, it's kinder now. What if there is more good now that there is no money for needed medication? Why is it that sick old people and long - suffering people who are in disability fail to receive the support they have in our community? How is it if it's sweeter that there are still babies in Iceland who go hungry to sleep? Should we senators do something about it before we finish this council? Is there anything we can do about it? Is it propulism to say that we're going to do something about it? I really hate to know about this position when Iceland is so few and we have access and we share so much resources, we're so rich and it's kinder. It is true, however, that when the last good thing was done, money was not provided to the health system in order to keep the health system in the way of everyone, as it almost did some day, regardless of who we were. I often bragged about my foreign friends that I received the exact same service, though I was a poor single mother, as did the president of the Republic. But this is not the case today. Our own systems have become privatized and privatized. We must not forget our brothers and sisters who are remembered and who need our support. [[The president calls.]] We must not forget them, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u14	A respectable president. For a discussion at which point. The welfare committee of these days is a bill for changing social security laws aimed at simplifying the improvement system, changing pension dates, and more. It's the most interesting thing to do. I've been here several times and I've said that one of the main projects on social security is to simplify the system because it's so complicated that people understand the wrong conditions of justice. I've been giving them a speech enough so that I don't have to repeat it here. I'm an emissary officer on a welfare committee, so I don't have a bearing on whether the case would be off the committee, but I could imagine that nothing would come out before the end of the council. You never know what happens in this town, though, it's just the way it is. I still feel it's necessary to talk about this right now. When I look at this matter, I realize that I can't simplify the system by myself without anyone getting hurt. When I've been asked how much money I want to put in the system, I've been able to say, first the system needs to be simplified. However, considering this matter has led me to conclude that both must be done at once. When we simplify the system, we have to do it in a way that brings down to the least of the users of the system because users have to experience it as if the system is very simple. Users are bad messages if the simplicity of the system that is necessary and that is, in nature, a positive one comes down on the users themselves. At that time, they feel that these simple ones are abusive to them. That is extremely negative. When we're headed for the simplicity of the social security system, we'll be like, to include inflation or in any case, or in the same amount of pension or in any case. I think it's important when it comes down to it, and I know that even this sort of system changes is always costing me. Maybe it's bad news, but I think there's more to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u15	President. The introduction of the election will be a matter of special interest against the public interest, one participants said that on Saturday, another desirable radio show would be involved. I agree with that. For example, in Iceland's special interest management is somehow far more obvious now than so many times before, governments focus on protecting things and the system as it is rather than trying to change them and improve them. The leader of the Independence Party simply stated that he and his party were opposed to system changes. But if we don't change the system, special considerations will remain in the foregrounds and the public interests will be left over. We need to change the fishing system, not to put on a magnificent fishing business, but to pay the natural price of access to the resource and open the way for those who want to get new into this basic work programme. The nation's resources are to be run, not in the pockets of builders. To promote competition, especially in the milk industry, we need to change our contracts and payments for farmers, not to destroy the land. We should not let freckles of men determine how we will strengthen this vital aspect of our country's territory. We need to change the health system, turn automatic money crisis to expert physicians, and allow hospitals to import medicines directly, thus reducing the cost of medicine. Because of the protection of special interests, wages are low, food that is expensive, the welfare system is blown down. Young people choose to live elsewhere and to change it, so that young people will come home, their wages will be higher, their food cheaper, and their welfare system needs a global change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u16	Mr. President. 23rd degree. The United Nations Convention on Child Rights is special provisions to ensure human rights of disabled children. Not without reason. It is recognized that disabled children everywhere have to endure a great deal of discrimination. Iceland is no exception. In part, this article says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Member States recognize the right of a disabled child to take special care of, and they should help and care for the child who is entitled to care for it, as well as for those who are responsible for it, by the means of the assistance provided and by the child and by the circumstances of parents or by others who care for it. In view of the special needs of the disabled child, help should be made free by the 2rd part of this article when possible, in view of the economic situation of parents or others in need of care, and should be directed to ensure that the disabled child really has access to and is granted to education, training, health care, rehabilitation, work preparation and ability to practice leisure activities, thus contributing to the maximum level of social and development of the disabled child, including cultural and spiritual elements. As we know, Iceland validated the United Nations Children's Covenant in 1993, and it was adopted by Icelandic law in 2013. Recently, the media reports that leisure services are being cut off by disabled children because of lack of money and staff. That happens at the same time as the Ministers and government officials in Iceland say it's a baloney rise and the government's interests have improved dramatically. Do disabled children and their caregivers not have the privilege of enjoying it? Mr. President. How does this harmonize with the laws of the land that the government has to pay for disabled children according to the children's covenant? How could it be that way in our country? Hence, responsible governments must answer. I allow myself to assert again here in the symposium that the people of the country do not want it to be this way at all. If governments refuse to accept the children's covenant, the people of the land must give them clear instructions to do so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u17	A respectable president. After a talk. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, I'd like to state that a pharmaceutical commission has issued a press release showing that the Ministry of Health has taken over 100 million museums. K. a donation to open to 21 new authorised substances. Thus, most of the priorities the National Hospital has requested are estimated to be 474 billion this year's cost. K. 706 million. K. next year. In addition, the CHMP has approved 16 individual applications for the payment of S-labelled medicinal products. It is important to maintain this quality when dealing with matters as sensitive as medications and when there is a lack of medication. Most of the medicines that have been wanted to come to the country this year have come to the country. A respectable president. I was going to make up the main subject at the short time that I have a potential seaman strike. I've got a lot of anxiety that sailors can go to strike on November 10th. And I'd like to encourage the sailors. I'd like to encourage the builders to negotiate for that time. The vote for the strike ends on October 17th, and it's time to get our bearings. It is clear that the success of the gang and the fall of the pounds and the Russian chain of fish has been a major factor in reducing the price of products that hit sailors in their income. Almost all this century, they have not gone into a hard fight in their choice cases. I don't think it's possible that 2,600 sailors, the entire fleet will be tied to a dock after November 10 with all the dangers it poses for a fish market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u18	A respectable president. I, like other senators and many other women at a press conference this morning, went to a conference about women. How interesting and pleasant it was to listen to what was being said there! Everyone knows what the situation is. Women are much less frequent in the media than men do. There are some things that happen. Many interesting facts were made, as if those women saying that they would be a prince who would say yes if they were asked for an interview. A participant noted that it may at times be difficult to get women, and often those who are in charge of various issues, whether governments, ministers, jobs, or other places, would be men. I began to wonder if the media could e.g., if it's hard to get women to present, expand a bit of the horizon and watch, for example. Also to the country. I think it would be incredibly interesting to see if it was brought together where the interviewers are, especially the women. Are the women who present themselves in the capital area or are they in the country? There are women everywhere. I thought it was a cool move when women joined together and enrolled in a list and thought that they were ready to sit in corporate governments. A list of these might be made of women who are experts in a variety of issues and who send them to the press. I'd also like to mention that now I got into it and we had a hard time. Harðardóttir We were asked to broadcast live at Station 2 yesterday. We said yes, of course, because as a woman you don't say no, because you don't want that ratio to be wrong. But then there was a vote on the validation of the Paris Convention at the same time. þm. So, Oddný G. Toughydóttir missed because we wanted to take care of our role in being in the media. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I just want to say that, of course, we would Oddný been on the green button for that vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u19	A respectable president. I have to say, the big things that have come in here, though they come into the last yards of this council, are important. This is a welfare committee for the change in the social security system that has to do with pensioners, pensioner patients, flexible retirements, etc. It's a little strange to stand here and listen to the left men who think it can wait. I wondered, " Can it really be that they're so poor because they haven't made their own way through the years they've been in the Social Security Department changing? ' It's also so that when there's a agreement between big unions on changing the Pension Fund, dropping the state responsibility of the public system and harmonizing one pension system, the left men will rise up on their backs and say, "You can't finish this, it's coming in so late, and we need this, and we need the rest. [[Who are these left men?]] A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is asked, "What left men?" There were men here in a pit talking about this earlier, okay? Senator. I don't think the real issue itself is a matter. Rather, it is painful that in the terms of the reign, the government under the leadership of these groups has managed to maneuver these issues. It's also painful for the left man to see the changes in the WIN that are at peace with most students, and then the left groups here at the council are standing and saying, "No, there's no way we can handle this. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. It seems that such a system change is in bad shape to the left, but some other system changes are in their interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u20	A respectable president. Twenty-five years ago, we took out a worthwhile extra tax from a publication in Iceland to make sure that there would still be a powerful publication in the Icelandic language. Now I'm asking the Minister of Education if the media environment in Iceland has become so bad that now there is a reason to cut off the merit tax on the media to ensure continued strong media in the Icelandic language. I ask for appeals from private firewalls but also because in the past few weeks I have read a dozen annual bills from the media companies in Iceland, and it's most unlikely to say that they have a cause for joy. The problem, indeed, is not limited to private lighting media but also includes newspapers, including the media innovation, the powerful media media that have been pushing themselves to bed, and also to the State Radio, which all these terms have had a serious problem. The strong media are the cornerstone of democracy, and independence from the media is our best weapon in fighting corruption. Hence, it is essential that the media have a general good business. They are also an important part of our country's culture, providing what we have in common with our own tongue. It is therefore of concern if the result is poor, the loss of a lot of companies is maintained, if there are poor salary, short working age, low job security, and the company is more dependent on its owners, and the hosts are more than moderate. That is why I call for the answers of the Education Minister to what measures the government can take to improve in the media's general management conditions, not only light - quality but also the state radio, including the new Internet media, as well as the old newspapers, because we are here not looking at a special kind of problem, although it will always be a special challenge to maintain a more powerful media sharing in a community that is only 0.3 million people, but it is an international project in that we are developing technology to make it more difficult for Icelandic companies to compete. The marketing market is shrinking, large international companies such as Google and Facebook are entering the advertising market. These companies do not pay the same taxes they are paying in Icelandic companies, which are trying to keep the media in our own language. We must ask ourselves, " Are we going to pay taxes to a firm that is trying to keep Icelandic material rather than we rely on paying taxes to the international giants? ' Likewise, consumers worldwide want to pay for material things to decline. Of course, there is also pressure on the media. Then there is the political question: Are we just going to have the media pressed, both in advertisements and on subscriptions, and watch them get sick or are we going to take action? Will we take general measures, such as general tax measures, to eliminate the valuable taxes or other measures, or do people think that it is better to use the means of strengthening? There are other countries in the North, such as strengthening the media in certain communities, strengthened by cultural reasons for specific media, strengthened research. Might the Minister see that we strengthened the reporting process, e.g. Just as we have an artist's salary in the country, we simply decide to spend some money so that a group of people can operate independently, but in the same way they create conditions for a group of journalists to operate independently on research projects at any given time, to make special use of Icelandic material on television, or in other ways in support of other ways than the tax environment?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u21	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for starting this discussion, as well as thanking the perfunctory talk and a fine review of the challenges and assignment we face. First, I'd like to say I agree. A senator on the diagnosis. Clearly, there is a need to take action to ensure that the independent, controlled media has a basis for them to carry out all the vital tasks at that time. A senator turned into a subject of publicity. I think it's important something to see exactly where the environment is around us. It is of interest to us that three years ago, Denmark was taken care of in the development and management of dancing media. The results were striking. The Danish press is not good. In Denmark, about 20% of the total advertisements go to large companies such as Google and Facebook, in the United States, to companies that do not make much of a dancing culture. Thereafter, the Danish government changed its granting policy. There are no comparable numbers from Sweden and Norway, but it is reasonable to assume that a situation is different. Second, keep in mind that there are some direct means to the media, such as the driving force. A senator mentioned. However, since it was specifically discussed with me about the value of the tax pay market, I would like to mention that the experience shows that the respect of taxes has a lot to say about the sales and distribution of the media. For example, there are no government grants in the United Kingdom to the special media, as in many European countries, but newspapers are not. For example, newspapers in Norway, Denmark, and Belgium are also emancipated from the value tax and in Sweden, the Netherlands and Portugal, for example, the worth of extra taxes per newspaper is 6%. 2.1% in Finland, 2.5% in Switzerland, 4% in Spain and 7% in Germany and 5% in countries such as Malta and Cyprus. In Iceland the value tax was 7% and is now 11 and has one of the most widely known newspapers in Europe. At the same time, there's one of the least markets around here. Online Norwegian press services have been free from the value of extra taxes since March 1, 2016, and thus sit in Norwegian Internet services at the same level as Norwegian printing media. In fact, it is in the past that in Sweden it has been decided to spend $35 million in government grants to Swedish printing media over the next five years to strengthen their development on the Internet. The reason I mention this, i.e. The extra tax, in particular, is about to go. A senator made it a subject and asked me specifically about my attitude toward it. I believe the solution to the problem as well as the other. A senator and I agree on at least part of the merit tax service. We need to take a stand on this. But that's not enough. Even though not long since we accepted new laws at the council that we have to change to face the technical technologies that have been developed, there are also some things that need to be updated in Icelandic regulations in the media law. It is vital that the lawgiver bring in the most technological uses. I called to my office in some of the lightsmen, so I had a meeting at the Ministry where we considered the operating position and the management environment of these media. So I can take my heart to the concerns of my life. The speaker described his speech. I have also had discussions with prime minister and financial minister, as well as some members of the council, and those in positions of government. My conclusion after that conversation is that it is consistent that there is a need to take action for the media. For one thing, I've introduced to the government and to my body of Congress laws that I'd like to make and hope to pass through the council to set up a working group on behalf of this council, which should be represented by all the parties and the new categories that come in after the next election to be returned to the Ministry of Education and Economic Ministers, to be established on February 15 of the following year's evaluation and to advise on what action, law change, in regulation, and otherwise, it is necessary to take to face the trend and state of life. A senator has made a subject for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. The apocalyptic and the highest. Minister for this important discussion. I'd like to first guess that in view of the highest. Minister said it was time to reexamine the media law that I strongly agree with the Supreme Court. Therefore, a minister, end by the provision of the law's preliminary review within three years of their 2011 sentence, this review should be under way. For the first time, they may have tried to reach a collective audience around the media environment. Like what? Those laws were remembered only for special TV, radio, and printing laws of the 1950's. They were important, but it's been a long time for review. It is trying to cope with the technological changes that have become and define the role of the media, which, of course, is anything we can call the role of the singles, which many may wish to confuse, i.e. On the one hand, we have professional media directors with independent editorial policies that have obligations to the public, that we should be an important support in a democracies community, and, on the other, these countless media we use, e.g. The politicians, in the form of Facebook pages and Twitter pages and so on, share our view of the outside world and cannot be called professional media. It is very important that we react to the fact that in a technologicalized world, there is an enormous supply of materials that has the management situation of what we call professional media getting worse. I now declare myself prepared here to discuss various ways, whether there are scholarships for study reporting, which I would have considered very exciting for our small community, a special view of the importance of national media, whether it is printing services or Internet services that care for special parts of the country that we know will often be left out in public discussion, and most certainly the taxological environment. I'd like to mention, then, that on the Economic and Business Committee we've been discussing the tax status of a flow service in Iceland for movies, TV programs and music and have discussed the possibility that this service will be added to a lower level. I don't know how much this is needed, because it seems that the response of the system is always that it's all in some kind of general reexamination. I don't know how many years that global reexamination could take place, but I wonder if we can't look at this in the context of the proposal on the economic and commercial board, because this is, of course, a very difficult situation for domestic service hosts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u23	A respectable president. All of us agree that independence and the media are invaluable sources of strength in a democracies community. Therefore, it is important to create healthy competitive, normal conditions for the media, especially in the market. But that misunderstanding, I think, from the right forces in Iceland, may include healthy media environments, including the weak state radio. Therefore, in the form of public talk and even the editorial effort of the dominant but also in the form of how the public funds have been used against the Agency. When the government radio was introduced into a public partner at the time, it was left behind with a huge pension commitment that everyone knows is killing its business. Earlier this year a service contract was made with the Agency. It was a contract for impaired service that, in the best possible way, was lost after long - term financial management and adversity, not including improvements or improvement. It's acknowledged. Thus, the reality shows that there is a discrepancy between the democratic and cultural roles that the State Radio is intended to perform on the other hand and the conditions established by the government to fulfill its role. I mention it because such work in public and public service does not create a balance in the media market, professional or business balance. Of course, the grand task is to deal with a changed world and to shape an unremarkable course for the group of paints. [[The president calls.]] The future vision and policy support of the role of The Kingdom News and how this is done in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u24	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking you for the discussion, of course, this is a very important subject that we are going over here. Maybe I'd like to focus on a little bit of the second part of the case. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. I don't think that any more emphasis can be made on cultural coverage in the media. It is a good thing for all of us to elevate the culture and the growth in it; new opportunities, new artists, and memories of former cultures. It is evident that the country is interested in the changes in culture over the years, e.g. is now one of the most popular shows in the MRV series that shows a fraction of television every year for the past 50 years. It's been determined what's most popular in the past few weeks. So when we talk about translations, there are many languages that are at risk of dying out. With national television and other media, I feel that there are certain responsibilities, including some. By upholding the language. We can talk about Icelandic dramas, short movies, television plays, Icelandic shows, cultural events, etc. Some children in the United States have lost some Icelandic words and have replaced certain English words that they receive. by using the technology today, by watching television, or by reading books. With this, I do not want to minimize foreign languages and the importance of being in control of them, but to me one of the parts of the Icelandic media is to support the Icelandic language. Since the media law was introduced, I believe that to keep track of the role of the media and the environment in which they live, which is rapidly changing, the law should be updated or, at least, reciprocate it every year. every two years, and don't let it pass too long between you. We only see the technological advances that have occurred in the past five years, how much they change in the environment of the media in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u25	A respectable president. It is difficult to find some final solution to the problems we address here because, of course, this is a major consequence of a technological advancement that will become more in the future. There are, however, advances not only in providing news but also in reimbursement and collection. One of the things that are going to rush into the various markets is a fiasco, as I intend to call it, e.g. Karolina Fund and patrio.com, of course, are different. Patrio.com assumes that you go to YouTube, or wherever you have access to the artist, the reporter, or the subject you are interested in, strengthening the person's interest in some particular amount a month. If enough people are involved, these can be obtained. It's a way that works for many people. The problems with being in Iceland are the smallest market and the blessing of Iceland. You see, I think we'll always get in the habit of doing this in English and make it in English because there's so much bigger markets and a lot more money. So I come to the conclusion that in spite of technological advances like patrio.com, Cairo Fund and all of that, as long as we want to keep in Icelandic, we will always have to be a publicist of the languages that are under Icelandic, including, of course, the media. Well, I'll be under the idea that I'm going to cut off a merit tax. For the ideas on research granting, like what? 3.m. n.. But I would still have the same concern as I have toward the public granting of the media in general because of the influence of politicians, especially when they have been as ugly as we have seen during this terms. It doesn't answer all questions, but I find that this needs to be a state's strength and a chain of technical advancement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u26	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion that is needed. It seems to me that we all agree on the importance of the free media and the role it plays, both to inform the public about what is happening and also to protect Icelandic culture and language. I also rejoice that there is an instant reference to a decline in taxes as one of the solutions. I have always been very hungry about reducing the taxes and suggest that we try to lower them in general so that commercial life in the country will improve and the business will be more successful. I think that's the way it should be. There is also another factor that many other professional articles could benefit, that the government would not compete with them, as in a commercial market that we need to explore. It's not easy for the media to have their coverage so they can get, for example. which most scans make it easier to sell advertisements and such. It is not good for the media to depend on it, so it needs to have good access to the advertising market. The advances in technology are certainly effective, as they have been, but they also contribute to the easier distribution of the material. It is much easier for the media to present their material today, and the cost is much smaller. We have to look to it. I've always been in favor of using a competitive fund to get into this sort of thing so that we can define exactly what we think is missing and that those who can give the best of attention to it will be distributed from competitive funds. I suggest that there is one of the ways that this important matter will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u27	Mr. President. I welcome what was observed by the Ministry of Education in response to the unprepared inquiry of what may have happened. paritaprevir September 8 Helgi Hjörvar, where the minister spoke of a transverse cooperation to improve the situation of the media in the country, and he repeated it earlier. I agree with the statement that this transnational cooperation should not only be a matter of action to improve the management conditions of the individual media but also of course, of course, of action that includes both the special and the public networks, the old newspapers, and the national media. The free media are essential to democracy because they support professional and informative coverage and reporting. Hence, governments are to defend their independence and their editorial freedom. The media must have financial authority to carry out their democratic role and it is desirable that the government will support their activities without allowing their independence by limitation of funds, threats, or other forms of force. It has been said in the case of a radio operator, as we have frequently discussed before, that if the radio charge goes unscrupulous and hadn't been reduced to cover the gap to what is missing. I proposed 2014 to regional centers, which play an enormous role in a democratic discussion in their area and the distribution of information on matters that may affect the population of the area much but rarely find out in the larger media on national level. The integration of rural society, with increasing population and geographically larger rural areas, and a reduction in the larger media has greatly increased the need for regional media, providing information on government projects, and is at the same time the site of a public discussion on the issues of the local community. The closing of regional radio broadcasts back then had a negative impact on information and internal discussion of community matters in the areas that enjoyed the broadcasts of regional stations. Happily, it is now being built up again. [[The president calls.]] We need to strengthen the media across the country, not just look at the large media in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u28	A respectable president. It is going to be a full election next month because by means of a concerted campaign and the coverage of free media and state television, public information that led to a great wave of anger in society made it clear that the government could do nothing but offer an election. Back off. This, of course, shows how much the media, both free and public, can serve when it comes to public service. The communication between the government and the Kingdom broadcasts has not been good during this ideal period. There's been a lot of pessimism on State Radio. I don't find it credible when events are as they have been and in us, that at the same time the government is working in some form of cooperation and meeting with the media about the state radio being of a commercial market, as is the tendency for this debate to be drawn out each time. It is of utmost importance that the State Radio is assured of funding for its public service role, both in news transport and to reflect and mirror the community as the program does. It is at the same time the role of politicians, in my opinion, to ensure that the natural competitive environment is for free media. At the same time, you have to say: Those who have established the free media in Iceland for the past 30 years and more than it has been perfectly aware that the State Radio was there on a surface and had a specific tour of a commercial market. This is part of the competitive environment that these enterprises have voluntarily entered. They have to compete in that field in the same way that all other media, with their content and by their real and decisive support of a public service role that is also found within the free media. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u29	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion that's important and that's done a lot of good. First, I want to celebrate what was said in the words of the highest. Education Minister, for the purpose of appointing a transnational team over the media work environment, and then to suggest a review of the media law. I would like to direct the question to the minister who is planning to get the media to that work himself. Is it not important to establish a persistent conversation about the work environment? There's one thing about the media work environment that I think is important but that has not been identified in this discussion right now, i.e. Potential for media distribution. One is the distribution system of the visual media. It is important that the media can reach all the people in the country and, on the other hand, that there is the same opportunity for all the light - watching media to distribute their program. This is one of the factors that must be considered in the group. However, the distribution of printed materials, such as newspapers and magazines, is very much back with a change in mail service, a change in public transportation law that makes it harder to get mail and packing by various means, so I have to make up the possibility of writing to a newspaper in my country. This is the case with many, and those living in the largest rural area may receive the newspapers twice a week, the second time four newspapers, and the second three newspapers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u30	A respectable president. Thank you for this very important discussion. It is important to look for two forms of media communication in Iceland, on the one hand, it is the State Radio, which is a public public agency with a very important public and cultural role, and on the other hand, there is a wide range of free media, which also plays a very public interest role, but is out in the market, so to speak, with its survival. The media, such as other cultures, are of great importance to a nation. For Icelandic languages, the media is of no less importance than Icelandic books. A foreign tongue may be feeding us through the media, but it is through other art forms. The media is also very important for democracy. It is important, especially in a small country where there are short and short - handed pipes, short - lived interests, varied, and independent media. Of course, we have to take responsibility for this as well as for the rest of our society. If we experience what we are doing, we certainly need to examine the media in an effort to get involved in a business venture. There is every reason to do so, such as. by examining their tax environment. If we're talking about putting down taxes on someone's hands, it's important that we do so along the way by examining the entire tax system. [[The president calls.]] It's totally lame that we turn the taxes on media companies at the same time that people can have their money abroad without any legitimate tax returns.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u31	President. Thank you for your discussion. I think they're very important. If it hadn't been for the Panamas and the much research that took place by the concerted efforts of journalists around the world, we wouldn't be in that position now to help the government seek out a new commission, and if the government didn't get it, there's no reason for that. One of the most important things a tiny country and a tiny community needs is a strong fourth power. How sad it is, then, that we have such a business environment for many media people, if not all, that the taxpayers are large and, for example, a taxpayer. VOLAND may not be advertised on its website, but at the same time, the media is expected to be competitive about news items. The media in Iceland, Germany, had an enormous degree of success in creating accessible and cool tissues, but they have somehow become virtually impossible to obtain information there because they are so badly crushed and they do not follow the standards that you see in the local media. Therefore, I believe Iceland has the lowest market to ensure that those who move to the digital form live in such a situation that it is really efficient. I wish I had more time to talk about this important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u32	A respectable president. I thank you very much for your discussion, and I present my satisfaction with the initiative of the Ministry of Education to establish a transnational team to improve the management conditions of the media, but I would like to say that an essential factor in improving the state of the State Radio, especially by relieving the Government Radio Penitentiary. In particular, I welcome the declaration of the Minister of Education to ease the value tax from the Icelandic media. It's a matter of action. It's an operation that makes sense. It's a general procedure. Much larger markets, much more populous countries, bring less taxes, even none on the media. We Icelanders need to follow their example, for our media are fighting to operate in a language area of 300 thousand people. The media is certainly divided into two parts, but it is increasingly divided into the multimedia and English languages of the European Union. That's right. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson that if you're not doing anything wrong, it's only Icelandic to give in. When I was chairman of the Economic and Business Committee during the last term, we faced a similar problem with Icelandic music. Her head was much higher than the tax of foreign music, and technology had weakened her competitive attitude. Then at the council, we decided to take the music from 24% worth tax to 7%. It was an operation that was about. It was an action that made sense because it was in general to improve the standards of music, to cope with technology and internationalization, and to strengthen and strengthen Icelandic culture. I challenge all members of the council to participate in the work that the Minister of Education has now decided to fire off the deck and take on this too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u33	A respectable president. Thank you so much. Congress on this important matter is excellent and objective. To me, it is the key point that the media in Iceland are strong and can do their job whether it is the part that has to do with the democracy, the administration, the legal authority and the judicial authority, the democratic crime scene, the topic of discussion, the culture of the nation. In view of the issue, it is quite true that the Icelandic language itself is under "U.S. tongue, " i.e. that it is the media in Icelandic. I have thought very much that one of the things we need to discuss might be specific, and I'm interested in turning to voice material for children. I don't think any single operation is as important to verbal and verbal language as it is to ensure that there is a lot of Icelandic material for children, preferably as much of Icelandic reality as there is. produced in Iceland. The reason I studied the value of tax tax money in some countries, the value tax on the media in the countries we compare with, is because we must look to the neighboring countries as a model of how we are supposed to be doing this taxation. It's quite clear that in an environment where The Kingdom Radio has about 55% of the market market market market market market market markets must be very narrow about the independent media. I think that's perfectly clear, too, in view of that in the North countries, because we're best compared with them, the state radios aren't in advertising. If we're not going to interfere with the state radio status of advertising income, it's the monopoly that we must watch the values of tax returns that are placed on the independent media. It must be so that we can share the agreement of going to such a job. [[The president calls.]] That's why I've prepared for the Congress arrangement that I hope to establish a parapolitic partnership, which, in turn, leads to an improvement to the Icelandic media. I could use some.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u34	V.E.G. President. I come up here primarily to celebrate the capture of this important milestone. I want to thank you. Foreign Affairs and what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's nephew, who is the spokesman for this matter, for the speed of their hands in the progress of the matter, who has just entered the council. There was also good reason for this to be taken by an unnatural delay. It's been a long time since we signed the contract, in 2007. It's taken way too long to finish this case. In this case, when a group of disabled people was being transferred to rural communities, we set out a provisional directive that a program should be set up in the affairs of disabled people, including those with physical needs. It would be timed validation. It was due to take place in 2013, but it is now 1016 C.E. This is a long - term legal matter for a group of people whose rights are highly important in gaining more rights. I appreciate the fact that I've been building a report on the welfare committee, but we've recently discussed a suggestion. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller and others on the validation of the contract. We also stated that when we took up a case with a report, we didn't really want to accept that council concluded, because we suggested that the Council has already approved the validation and that it is important to also complete the optional accounting as well as to legalize the contract. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson has made a adjustment in his proposal that we also validate the optional book. I like that suggestion very much, and I want clear reasons why it might be a problem to accept it, because I intend to accept it unless there is a legitimate argument against it. I'd like that argument right here in my discussion, if there's any. I'd like to say that this validation will make it easier for disabled people to build on the court contract. In addition, the validation includes communication obligations to stakeholders, disabled people, their organization, and other organizations in this field. By validation the Icelandic state will be bound by national rights to meet the obligations laid out in the contracts as well as by a special monitoring committee that will submit within two years of the validation of a report on the implementation of the contract in this country. In addition to the shadow report provided by the national bodies where the information can be referred more effectively, and recommendations can be made for improvement. It's like the transition from what? paritaprevir Páll Björnsson's son is expected to go further on the optional accounting because the addition involves important improvements. On the one hand, it is a complaining way for individuals to be called by the United Nations, and it is a way for the Committee to investigate a serious or systematic violation of the agreement. The candidate of the proposal will, of course, be more aware of this than I do in my case. Then it is very important that we also decide on the legalisation of the agreement. It ensures the legal status of disabled persons, and the problem of interpretation will not be the same as when the contract has only been validated. The legalization guarantees that the right of the court contract can be directly based on people's rights. I say again, it's very enjoyable, and I'm celebrating this very much, but we have more steps to take. But this is a big, important step. I wish to congratulate all those who in recent years have fought for the validation of this contract, prepared for his presentation, and tirelessly fought against us politicians, I wish to wish all these people, within the Microcracy Coalition, the Development Fund, and other organizations, and individuals sincerely happy with their results. This has been an ongoing struggle, but let's hope that it was worth it. Then I'd like to point out that there are some laws that we will change in order to fulfill the obligation of the agreement. Now it is time for us to complete it at the next assembly, which is due to the operation of the Generals, such as this validation, not just has become empty. We can't be meaningless. We need to follow this matter along with necessary adjustments. Finally, the highest. Mr President, I'm pleased with this phase, and I repeat my gratitude to what it means. Foreign Affairs. Surely, it was time to validate this important human rights contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u35	A respectable president. It is a long time before the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments here at the General Assembly, which has been waiting for nearly a decade to arrive. This, then, is much more reason to say thank you. A foreign press committee and head of advance, huh? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, for the sleazy deduction of the case that stopped there only at one meeting, for a few days, and is immediately here for the final payment. I thank you, too. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingleuna Ingadóttir for the work of the welfare committee to the matter in connection with Kristján L. Möller' odorary proposal. I'd like to use this opportunity and make this especially the highestAlfreðsdóttir Lilja you for Dögg this in quickly and well, although she has stayed in the Minister's office yet, she is now absent for meeting abroad, which is certainly worth having finally received the matter into the council. I have to make comments, however, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has not had a validation of the optional accounting. Thank you very much. The Foreign Affairs Committee for directing it to the Council to start already working on the development of the optional book that can be valid, as it was only natural that the Icelands would be among the nations that validated the entire treaty with repairs, but would not be among them skunks, if I may say so, who do not. That's right. Ingibjörg Ingadóttir Ingavedóttir that a number of legal adjustments are still needed in order to bring the plagiarism back to reality. I believe it, however, is the most urgent cry of the European Union's decree to ban discrimination in a labour market set in 2000. A respectable president, I repeat, 2000. The European Union banned discrimination from the European labour market in 2000. Iceland and I are members of a European labour market. Today, it is 2016, and it has not yet been printed in Icelandic. For 16 years it has not been printed in Icelandic. I personally came to this matter on the request of the then social minister in 2007 to resolve disputes, I did so with difficulty. paritaprevir The bear of the Birgir Ármannsson of a year. We met a agreement with all the labour market partners on how these directives should be produced in Icelandic law. This has been in the Department of Social Affairs for eight years and has been in the Constitution of the government every fall all the time. [[Please state: Tell me why.]] I hear the highest. A minister calls out to tell you why. I think it's best that the Minister himself realizes why that bill has never been passed, why it hasn't been paid in the council. For all of us, 16 years have been banned from discrimination in a European labour market except Iceland. We will likely receive the answers later in our discussion. I trust the Minister will make it clear because it is the most obvious fault in Icelandic legislation regarding the rights of disabled people as it is today. In 2006, I was sent by the then social minister Páll Pétursson and then Foreign Minister Valgerður Sverrisdóttir to negotiate the UN Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People in New York and learned some of the terms of the covenant. Part of reaching the agreement of all the different nations that work together in the United Nations was the optional book making a complaint on the part of individuals and on the other hand, the right of the monitoring committee to investigate things in the countries that validate the optional accounting. The reason for this was that the rich countries, the developed countries, the welfare communities, were to create a way for the poorest countries in the world, where the media of the disabled are very underdeveloped, so that they could validate the treaty and not gain it as soon as they had made a lot of charges and research committees to take over the organizations. Thus, the optional book was thought of, for countries such as China, who hesitated to bring in Western research committees to pass through the orphanages there or for the child's equipment with mental health care or other forms of community, but it was never intended for the Western welfare state, although one country had chosen not to validate it. It was always assumed that the Norwegian welfare state felt that it was important for our citizens to complain about the United Nations Committee on these matters, just as men did here by hunting in Iceland, as it is famous, when they turned to the United Nations Human Rights Committee for Human Rights. Of course, we want Icelandic citizens to be able to look for complaints to international institutions if they don't get their rights here in the country. Of course, we do not fear that an international committee will come here and look at the equipment of disabled people in Iceland in the same way as we will receive surveillance committees that will review the situation in prisons or in the affairs of children or other such matters. I think this must just be some postponement of validating your optional accounting. I trust and believe that this will follow immediately because they know disabled people, unfortunately, that beautiful words on paper are of little value if you can't look for anything, if it's not fulfilled. The path to complaint, of course, is part of it. To these minor faultfinders I reiterate that I am glad that the Minister has brought it in so quickly after he accepted his office and that the State Department has handled the case so thoroughly that this moment is finally beginning to appear here at the council that the treaty is validated and is looking forward to an explanation of the social Affairs of the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u36	Madam President. I'm glad we're coming to Iceland to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. I've previously told it in this and this contract that this is one of the most important human rights contracts ever made because it's as contrary as it sounds, it doesn't really guarantee people new rights. The situation has simply been that in the existing human rights deal and, of course, to reach all, it has been true that human rights protection has already failed to reach disabled people. That is why this contract is needed, so of course we should validate it. It has taken too long for Iceland to finish the work that started in 2007 when Iceland signed under the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. At the Generalis scene, there have been many pressures after the completion of the validation procedure. It has been noted that laws need to be changed so that European legislation fulfills this agreement and has certainly been working on some legal adjustments, but this work has gone way too slow. So I rejoice now that there are still some laws that will fix and change the process of validating. I think that validating the contract will cause that work to go faster. When I'm at the highest. The minister of the State recommended the Council's resolution made clear a willingness to win the matter quickly and to complete it. At the same time, it was noted that the matter was given by members of Congress, which was virtually in harmony with this matter. A welfare committee has been discussed, but it had not been completed. So you cannot help but wonder: " Why is suddenly this great desire to finish the matter now on the final meters? That will has been with us throughout our government. Unfortunately, I must say that as happy as I am over this stage, the thought of it is because of the highest. The government realizes that it has done nothing for that group, especially in the case of desperate people. Not all disabled people are cripples, but a large part of the group that also belongs to the group sufferers, which will be for various reasons rely on pay from the social security system to support themselves, including Because people don't get jobs. I really hope that by the validation of the contract, there will be a change. The contract is designed to make up commitments that make possible access, that the workplace is accessible to disabled people. That's one of the underneaths. As happy as I am with you here to validate the contract, I feel that this gives me some assurance that no more was done to improve the interests of disabled persons during the season. In validating a contract like this, there will not be a complete change in overnight on the backs of disabled people in society, not at all. There will continue to be obstacles that make it possible for disabled persons to still have to fight for their rights, improve interests, and, unfortunately, be able to participate in the community as competent and active members of society. Like I said in yesterday's discussion about confirmation of the Paris Treaty, work is actually just starting. It is relatively easy to sign a contract, but then all the work that follows is really the hard one. It is somewhat similar with the Paris Convention and the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people that here we have the guide to what we are going to do but still have legal rights for the disabled. So all the beautiful words are really improving human rights for the disabled. That's why it's so important that all of us in this room and everyone else in the community know this deal, establishes his ideologies so that everything we do, and that all the laws that will be passed at the Council mirrored in this contract. That's how we make sure that disabled people sit at the same table as others in this community when it comes to human rights. We've got to get out of our headset thoughts, i.e. that we discuss some general language, and then we take the subjects of disabled people out of parentheses and discuss them. It has been noted that when it comes to climate, we need to make plans, such as transport plans, and with climate glasses, we need to study them. In fact, it can be used in exactly the same argument here, saying that when it comes to such a transport plan, we also need to study such programs guided by this agreement. In the 9th. The contract is specifically discussed on bioavailability. It says, by permission of the president: The Member States shall take appropriate measures to enable disabled people to live their own lives and to have a full share in human life in all areas, i.e. Factors aimed at ensuring disabled persons access, as well as others, to the material environment, to transport, to information and communication, including information and communication technology, and to other facilities and services provided to the public, both urban and rural areas. Of course, there are many more factors than what is involved in transportation. Not only because this was mentioned in connection with the Paris Convention but also in view of the fact that later today's transportation program, I feel that it is important to put it in this context. Transport is an extremely important issue for community participation. There is little point in living in a house available to you, and if the way you live in it is not available, you even have your own home. Of course, talking about participating in a job market is empty. It is the whole idea to remember that disabled people are like all other people involved in a complex society. We must always remember that we are different and that we have different needs. This should be kept in mind, taking into account all laws and regulations. I haven't even mentioned what's going on with my community, but it doesn't matter about them, it's about the whole community. We must cultivate that thinking. It helped with work and management. The matter should be taken into account by the Foreign Affairs Committee. A welfare committee had already been working on the case, she had received visitors, and she returned a report from the committee that we could base on our work. I think it's important what's said in a report. The welfare committee says the next step is to validate the contract. The movement of disabled people has called for it. I think it's clearly the next thing we do at the Council that we need to consider, even though the validation is an important step in that process. The committee decided to join in her committee program to accept the synonym as she came from a foreign minister and suggest that it be accepted as unchanged. After we took care of the situation, adjustments were made. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son means that a selective addition to the contract should also be validated and signed. So I agree completely. Of course it's best to do it and I'll support that we do it, I thought it was the best payment. Nevertheless, whether it is possible to go on this cycle or whether it will be the next thing that needs to be done, I hereby declare that this also needs to be done, even though I don't really know if we can do it in this cycle. I believe that at least it is extremely important that we enter the validation of the contract ourselves, for this will evict us quite far into the future. It was very interesting to listen to a talk. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar of the past, who described the leader of this selective book. I must now admit that although I know very well about this contract, I did not know the political side of the matter, how the situation had been resolved in the United Nations. Of course, all you can say is that it's a very strange thing to say that Iceland's rich country didn't trust to go all the way in this matter. So I'd like us to attempt to go all the way out of this now, but if not, we clearly know where the next steps are. As I said before, I believe that the next step should be to validate the contract and, of course, to take the necessary adjustments and, in fact, be well explained by the Congress resolution. Once the contract has been signed, it's best now to be careful until work is done and to make sure that all the legal adjustments that will be in accordance with the agreement as well as any other law that we at the Council will accept in the future. I'd like to finally strike. Councilmen to study the agreement, adopt his ideologies, and practice using it, and cover all Congress cases with the eyeglasses of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people on their noses. And that's how I think we'll be better off as a community. There's a very big part that we can create a community that is really for everyone, where everyone can take part from physical or mental, and that we can flourish in all our diversity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u37	Madam President. It is not often that you feel wise, experienced, and knowledge come down from every word, but it made me feel that I was speaking at ease. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadotir, who gave a speech that was very objective and meaningful. She also said that we are all kinds of people, and there needs to be room for everyone. What we're doing here today is one step toward it and maybe a considerably larger step than many people realize. There was one point that I wanted to address the agreement that came to my mind under a talk at the time. Senator. It is true that this covenant is not designed to create new rights and most of the rights that it provides are already guaranteed in other covenants. But what is understood by the UN Convention on Human Rights of Disappointments and older Human Rights is that in this new contract, in many cases the rights are better and more adaptable to the reality of disabled people to provide them with more efficient and clearer legal protection. That's the way it is, for example. to the point of freedom of expression is to say clearly, this includes: that the countries are obliged to recognize and promote the use of sign language and Braille. It also clearly states in the agreement on the right of education, which we know to be there, that it is the right to be educated without separation. The treaty also makes clear the right of the disabled to lead an independent life without segregation in the community. That includes legalizing the contract, ensuring disabled persons with the opportunity to choose a place to live, as well as to choose who they live with. [[The president calls.]] The contract is better prepared and implemented, and it explains the rights that are present. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's done with the deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u38	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the comment, and now he has to admit that I always get a little nervous when it comes to it. A senator flatters me and thinks: well, now I may have made some mistake. But I can live up to it this time, at least, and I think I know the deal very well. [[Up front.]] I'm glad to hear it. A senator has evidently studied the agreement and understood its contents. There are important factors. A senator pointed out. I made the connection with the transport program in my talk, but of course there are so many more fields to review. For education, I think that's exactly what we need to keep in mind, because this time it is the highest. Governments have been severely confined to the variety and scope of high school education. I think we need to be very aware that shorter study periods and, in fact, less choice, some students have some degree of impairment. That's where we need to understand, too. Because of what? A senator also mentioned the right to independent life, and we need to keep that in mind when it comes to things such as that. Building order. What rules do we set out on how a home should be designed, and when may its availability be measured? [[The president calls.]] I'm glad to see what it is. A senator has come to use the concept of order and therefore to mention these other examples, which makes it so clear that we need to keep our glasses on our noses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u39	Madam President. I can assure you what. That my briefs are entirely safe from danger. All members of Congress can testify to those who have been with me for the past 25 years. There's a reason I've studied this contract. I was the Minister who, in the time of the last government, adopted the case as foreign minister at the level of the government. There were a number of factors that people wondered about. Various officials said that all the rights in this contract were at the same time. That is why I began to study this contract and found that it was true, but its value is in explanations and implementation, and the underscores of the right. This contract, now made part of Iceland's legal system, will be more than premeditated for many people who are fighting for the rights of disabled people. I mention, for example. the matter as a matter of course. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson recorded earlier today about disabled children. This contract is more than a toddler in the fight for the rights there is. Shall we, for example? we need to ask ourselves, " What are some of the individuals who are fighting for an extended contract on the subject of personal service? ' They're in a mess, as the Minister knows, sitting here on the bench. These people will find in this contract a clearer ledge to meet their battle against the system. It's a fight we're supposed to be supporting them in, and that's what we're doing by accepting this deal. In effect, we are trusting the foundation of the struggle for the greater rights of people with disabled and developmental problems and by setting things right. That's the value of this deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u40	Madam President. It is the exact value of the contract, as is indicated here in a comment by the Senate resolution, by permission of the president: ▪ The agreement recognizes the human rights of disabled people, who are the same as others, but at the same time confirms the right of disabled people to enjoy these rights. That's perfectly clear. Of course, it should have always been that way, but it's just not. Of course, because of this, the struggle movement of disabled people in Iceland, as well as of course in other parts of the world, has put so much pressure on Iceland to validate this contract because it has been so well written and explained and implemented as to how the human rights of disabled people will be protected and assured. Sadly, this has been true despite the fact that disabled people have the same rights that everyone else has at all, they have not been so in real life. Hence, it is happy that there is at least a final milestone today. The movement of disabled persons can now become more important to others than a major factor when it comes to improving the status of disabled persons in our community. Despite the fact that here we are taking an important step, there are still things that we need to do and improve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to begin with, as most members of the Parliament are happy to know that today we are going to agree to the Constitution of the United Nations Convention on Distinguished Rights. As most people know, I have made adjustments in the suggestion that I feel that we should not also validate the selective book. I have in my career as a member of the council for the past three years been exposed to extraordinary numbers of disabled people and those who live in the community. Many of these people have taught me, and my interviews have shown me that we have not done well in the affairs of disabled people, far from then on. I think this proposal has come into existence now on autumn days because of what it is. paritaprevir Kristján Möller and other members of the council proposed a form of interpretation on the same subject. winter. I think if it hadn't been submitted, we wouldn't be validating this contract today, it's a very simple matter. As we have seen, legal adjustments have to be made in order to fulfill this agreement. Discussion has shown that, for example, it is against discrimination. After two days, it is one year since we were in a short future that gave a bill to correct the transformation of exactly that, i.e. a change in the regulations of various laws against discrimination. It has not even been discussed in committees. It tells me that when it comes to accepting this, it won't follow much of a mind. I'm sorry. That bill would have been a bit of a problem with the introduction of law. We could have finished this deal. But from now on, very happy news is that we are going to validate this agreement, that is a very big step in the rightfulness of disabled people's rights. People who care about disabled people's issues came to their senses. The welfare committee to discuss the proposed proposal, and I mentioned it earlier. One of the things that make me very interested in these matters, and the fact that making a decision - making book is one of the main factors that make me very interested in them. says a review of the Corporate Community, with permission of the president: ▪ The majority of the world's minority are estimated to have some 650 million people with disability. This group meets both contempt and distrust and is pushed to the longest edge. Although many human rights covenants have changed the lives of many of those of minorities for the better with increased protection, disabled people have stood outside the progress and change. Regardless of human rights or financial matters, the disabled person is the group who has the least use of his human rights. Often, disabled people are being prevented from enjoying the same opportunities to match others, such as living their own lives and taking an active part in society. They further point out in their review that the contract responds to this call, to change this. They also say, with President's permission: With the contracts, those in the Member States recognize disabled persons as active citizens and members of society rather than as inactive receivers of charity and well - being. I rejoiced that the deal was agreed, and it happened very quickly. Thanks a lot. The Foreign Affairs Commission, who had handled the matter firmly, tried to speed it up. But I've been a little ambiguous since I saw the decision had been made, and there was a future. To this day, that we should not take the steps to the full and validate the selection of the book. Many people have allowed themselves to be concerned with the disabled for decades and have fought for their rights, such as. (b) How did the Watch Tower Society use the name of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania? The Organization Developmental Help, leading by the Árni of Múli Jónasson, director of the National Association and Bryndís of Snæbjörnsdóttir's daughter, who is their chairman. They wrote an article in August on this subject that I love very much. I'd like to read it to you, by permission of the President. ▪ Human rights and ambitions. □ In this article, what is human rights? ▪ Human rights are legal rights that are recognized as so important to all people that the nations of the world have agreed that all countries must do what they can to make sure that everyone is able to enjoy these rights, always and everywhere. Basic rights are defined in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights since 1948 and explained and implemented into human rights contracts validated by the state of the world committed to honor and enforce. Examples of important human rights are the right to be free, to have opinions, to express them, to study and work, to enjoy health care, and to enjoy these rights as much as others, but to have no worse opportunities to do so because of certain characteristics or positions, such as race, sex, religion, or disability. But human rights as well as other laws are broken. Some people are honest and obey laws; others will violate laws if they feel that they are personally benefiting from them and getting away with them. Some countries take very seriously their obligation to ensure all human rights, others to neglect it, or to avoid it. And just as an honest person enjoys respect and trust in other members of the community, a state of people who respect their commitments is well respected by international human rights treaties and trust in other countries in the international community. ▪ The European Council and Human Rights Management (EEC) is the heading of chapter 2. There is no global police that reacts when governments violate international human rights laws. Hence, countries have agreed to hide international institutions to observe how individual countries are working to ensure people's human rights to which they have committed themselves. The European Parliament is a very important institution with great international respect. The European Council was established in 1949 following the disaster of World War II. Its Member States include 47 in Iceland. The European Parliament's role is to promote the cooperation of Member States with the aim of protecting human rights, strengthening democracies, strengthening human values and the general quality of life of the European population. The European Parliament's Human Rights Council is an independent body within the Council, which includes the task of ensuring Member States to enforce treaties and recommendations from the Council. Therefore, the Council of Human Rights is of great importance and importance to the European Council and its member countries. The Council of Human Rights, Muiznieks Nils, was visiting Iceland earlier this month to learn the state of human rights. After his visit, he spoke to the press, saying that he was puzzled by the ambitions of Icelanders in human rights. He even said.Unable to connect to POP server I believe Iceland is a wealthy country compared to many of the countries I've been to. I am surprised that you have shown no greater ambition in carrying this responsibility and in making progress. The Human Rights Council specifically pointed out that the Icelanders have not yet committed themselves to implementing the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons since 2007 by validating the contract, but the majority of countries in the world have done so, including all but Iceland. This, of course, is a great sentence against the Icelandic government from its source and must be accepted. Why is it important for Iceland to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People? The main objective of the contract is to ensure the disabled an opportunity to live independent and normal lives and protect them from discrimination in important areas. By validation of the contract, the State commits itself to ensure that all the minimum rights for which the contract commands and to make the necessary changes to Icelandic law, regulations, administration and services are being made to ensure that the requirements of the contract are met. When a state makes the agreement, it commits itself to provide monitoring committees that work according to the contracts regularly reports what they have done to keep their commitments under the contract. On that report, the state shall consult with disabled persons through organizations acting in their behalf. The Management Board deals with the reports and then directs their recommendations to the Member States on the subject better, and it is urgent to do so. These reports and the review of these committees and their recommendations on measures and improvements include a very important management of relevant countries and helpful guidelines for the government on what to do and how to improve the requirements of the contract. Optional entry to the contract. Iceland signed an optional book on the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people as they signed the contract in 2007. The selection book recommends a course of charges for individuals and groups that the Icelandic government has not granted them the rights they have under the contract, and they have in vain used the resources they have under Icelandic law and a system of government to achieve what they believe they have to be entitled to. The review board can request information from the states and direct references to them. By validating the optional publication, a more effective way to enforce the contract, the legal security of disabled persons will become more and their human rights better protected. This is what it's all about. But I'm going to finish this article because they're going to go on and say: In 2013 the United Nations Convention on Child Rights was adopted in Icelandic law. This was to ensure an even greater degree of commitment than the rights recommended by the contract. The same argument applies to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. By legalizing the contract, the human rights of disabled persons will be granted increased protection, and the security will increase. A determined individual will then be able to carry the terms of the contract as a clear rule of justice for judgment and government. Legalization will arouse the public as well as the people dealing with the cases of disabled persons in the courts, in the administrations and in preparation for legislation, to further awareness of the human rights of disabled persons, and to the dignity that will be expected to be shown to them in the legal state. The legalization of the agreement on disabled persons will also increase, internationally, trust in the respect of the Icelandic state for the human rights of disabled people. Finally, they say in this article: Let's get the dirty word! Sadly, the European Commission's representative's comment that the signing of the contract has not yet failed to validate the United Nations Convention on Human Rights, even though nine years have passed, and the majority of the countries in the world have validated it. So the authors of this article challenge the Icelandic government to launch the sleazy word by validating the contract without further delay and also the optional book to him and then to accept the contract in Icelandic law as soon as possible. People here speak with knowledge and knowledge. I decided after reading the article and thought for a long time about making adjustments in the proposal to make that statement, with the permission of the president: ▪ Instead of the words signed in the motion paragraph: and the preferred addition to the contract, both of which were signed. I propose this adjustment proposal. Here is a synopsis proposal to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people at the highest level. Minister of Foreign Affairs has now submitted. I want to change it so that it will reach the selective Annex to the Convention. As noted in the Conventional Reconception of Foreign Ministers, there are two additional ways in which the contract itself measures, which the Commission of the Treaty can apply. On one hand, there is a complaint route for individuals to the Committee, however, a way for the Committee to investigate serious or systematic violations of the Convention with the approval of the Member State. The decision book offers individuals and groups a litigation if they feel that the government has not granted them the rights of the contract, and they have used in vain the resources they have under Icelandic law and a system of government to achieve what they feel they have the right to do according to the contract. The review board can request information from the states and direct references to them, as mentioned earlier. By validating the selected Annex, a more effective way to enforce the contract, the rightfulness of disabled persons will become more and more human rights will be protected. That's exactly what I said before. Comments by the Council of State Ministers state: The increase is not suggested to be validated in this country. The reason is unclear. It would be very interesting to know why not. Why is it not stated in the report that we are unable to validate this appendix and explain it? What makes it impossible? I heard yesterday in a town that the reason was because the officials or the system didn't recommend it. I also understand that the government is not impressed that we're validating this deal. Why is that? Should any faceless officials decide whether to validate contracts or not? I don't agree with that, but that's what I've heard. I don't sell it expensive, but I bought it. It was an agent who is disabled who said yesterday on world famous Facebook that the government system did not want it and did not recommend it. I don't think that's a good reason not to. I suggest that these options be added, or optional books as they are also called, will be validated as soon as the contract itself is agreed and that the Council's Reconsistencies of the Heresies will be changed accordingly. I've been given a lot of support because of that suggestion in the community. People are glad we're doing this. It is also happy that we validate the agreement, but I have been given a great deal of pressure from people outside the community to make this stressful. For example, I present a challenge to all councilmen and ministers from Tabu, a feminian movement that focuses its eyes on a complex discrimination against disabled people. It stems from the struggles of women who themselves have suffered injustice, violence, and oppression on the basis of their disability. I want to read the letter that came from Tabú today, by permission of the President. ▪Tabu, feminist disability movement, at the General Assembly, conflicts with a proposal to accept the resolution of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, as well as the changes made by Senator Páll Valur Björnsson, that, together with the validation of the contract, the decision of the agreement will also be validated. The full value of the appendix is necessary to make real changes in the rights of disabled people in Iceland. In addition, it ensures that individuals have access to a UN Committee on the rights of disabled persons and that the Committee can investigate serious or systematic violations of the Convention, with the approval of the Member State. Iceland has confirmed the appendix of other international human rights contracts, so it should also apply to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disregarding People. We challenge the Congress to show respect and ambition for the human rights of disabled persons, to validate the agreement with the selective appendix, and thus take the necessary steps toward ensuring the legal status of disabled people in Iceland, so that they will be comparable to the legal standing of disabled persons in other welfare countries. I take my heart to this challenge, and I hope that the U.S.R. will agree to my adjustment. There is no material basis for not doing so. There has been no evidence as to why this is not done and no explanation for it has been given.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u42	A respectable president. I asked for an answer earlier to ask him why. A senator whether he knew any evidence against accepting also the selective appendix. Hv. A senator then said that he heard that there was some opposition from officials. I had stopped responding because of what I was doing. A senator said that he did not know that argument. I had no question then. But then I started to wonder, " How on earth can anyone possibly object to such a selective approach? ' I was thinking here, with gratitude in mind that this is an undisputed case. It is not clear that we should validate this agreement. Hv. Every group member has complained that this has not been done, except for the themselves of the stakeholders. But I do not remember anyone claiming to be opposed to validating this agreement. I've never heard anyone suggest it, let alone give me reasons for it. I'd be amazed if someone opposed the contract's validation. I would ask myself, " How were arguments made? ' Costs? Time? Is there some kind of law that is a stowaway or something? I don't know what the deal would be like. And then there's the other number added, which, of course, I have to admit that I know only of the story of which. A senator and any evidence that came into the Council. Well, maybe. A senator can imagine what could cause opposition to the selective, unconcerned appendix? I'm just a little stunned. I don't even know exactly what to ask. I'm a little surprised. What do you say?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u43	Mr. President. No, I don't know, but I still think so. Some people are afraid that this will mean a lot of speech and extra expenses and perhaps a lot of work for officials. I think that's the closest explanation. In 2012, the then government was set up to validate the contract, and it was due to be completed in 2014. We're doing it first in 2016. Why? What stands in the way of this? Why has this not been done? I often wondered how it has taken Iceland, one of the richest countries in the world, nine years to validate this agreement. What is behind it? I say like what? Senator, I'm thinking about it and I don't really know why people are opposed to accepting this Annex. I don't have any answers. You can blunder back and forth for why not, but you can be careful not to speak irresponsiblely. But I sometimes think the government system and our system all, the administrative system, are getting in the way of national politics. I wish I had the answer to that question, but I don't have it. I'm just as surprised as I am. A senator's decision was not to do this immediately. But as I mentioned earlier, I heard from a person who is on the front side of a disabled person's rights struggle that this was not recommended by the government. That's all I can answer for. A senator on why the upkeep is not approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u44	A respectable president. I must admit that I have seldom felt so clumsy at ever to come into a speech chair with a question, for I am so stunned myself. But if, of course, that which we cannot give ourselves here only with further evidence, with evidence, that the public system is afraid of a lawsuit and in short of trouble, is that not just a further reason to confirm this preferred appendix? Does that not just mean that there is more to it than we realize? I'd think so. If this is the evidence, I'd appreciate it if there was evidence to confirm the appendix, but not the evidence against it. I'd feel better, I'd say in a certain irresponsibility, that there was just no need for this. It wouldn't matter. Things would be fine. In fact, I don't think it's the case, but it would be better than the other that this would bring us so much trouble because it would be such a great reason to use the optional supplementary, i.e. ... ifthehistoryis true. But it doesn't take long to surprise what you hear from the system. There's a few things about rights in Iceland, not just in this case, but in others. But I ask why. Senator: If it is the case that officials or any members of the system are afraid of the influence of this selective supplementary publication, is that not a reason to agree with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u45	A respectable president. Yes, there's only a perfect reason for that. There have been no other arguments that justify not doing this. It's just that way. At least I haven't seen them, and they haven't been mentioned in this discussion, i.e. why this is not done. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator that is the very reason we should accept this, if what I mentioned earlier is true, which is naturally not confirmed, but only rumors. It is unlikely that we have not agreed to this agreement, validate it, and legalize it. I view all of us as part of the same body and should enjoy the same rights away from our physical situation. For one thing, it was in the government's declaration of policy, that real equality should be won away from the social position of the people. This will do it. Those who fight for these rights give tremendous weight to the fact that the increase will also be accepted. He provides far better management for governments and ensures that officials and those who handle these matters in the administrative system do their job and make use of them. If we do so, there is nothing to be afraid of. We have nothing to fear if men do their job and do it well. But we're supposed to see our own respect in accepting the contract and adding this selective appendix and showing that we really want everyone to be equal in this community. It hasn't been. In Iceland, as well as in other parts of the world, people who have been oppressed for decades have been subjected to extreme oppression, discrimination, and violence. It is long time for this to end and for disabled people to have perfect rights for all other citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u46	Madam President. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's book was truly a Mass of fire. In effect, in this discussion there has been no argument against validating it along with the agreement itself. Hv. A senator naturally said that he was very upset about it. But perhaps that is, considering the lack of this discussion, there is a possibility of doing so. No one has spoken against it. V.E.G. Social Ministry of Eygló Harðardóttir attends the discussion. I think her heart beats so that it might be possible, given the argument as a matter of fact. A senator has presented his case, had her make a decision, and took advantage of the decision that will be followed by a vote. Remembered e.g. A man like a dog. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson resists it? It's very difficult for me to see it. What I think has become more clear in this discussion is that this is a very simple ceremony. It is unlikely that the confirmation or validation of the decision book would bring any other cost to the State beyond that of the agreement itself. If you don't mind me giving it to you. A senator's advice is to leave now and speak to the highest level. A minister while he is hot to see if there is not a basis for an even greater solidarity, which includes not only the agreement but also the selection of the book and the review of this objective discussion, whether it is not providing the basis for setting things up below that the selection of the book will also be confirmed. Ella, we have to ask for it to the highest level. A minister here on the discussion would argue against that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's always good to talk to the highest. Minister. I've been very good with her through the years. But I can totally say that I don't believe that the suggestion will be made. There's no evidence, and no one's been here to say why should not be accepted by the selective book. I've learned more about these matters, and I've noted that it doesn't cost the state anything. It follows the exact same rule as when the contract is validated. We haven't arranged all the legal adjustments yet, but we've decided to validate the agreement and prepare the agreement, for we will work to change the law. But I'll take my heart to it with a bang. A senator, of course, should try to agree to accept this and show that we want to be completely on the rights of these people. We've been making a contract for nine years. I sure hope that's the best. A minister will come up here and explain why the selection book is not included this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u48	Madam President. At least I think that's why. While this discussion is being conducted, a member of the council is expected to meet with the highest degree. Ministers of societal matters, using their persuasiveness and trying to get solidarity in this matter. Like what? A senator has actually described two aspects of the selective book. First, there's an independent way for Icelandic people who have the right and the protection of the contract themselves, which we hope to agree to will be validated. Second, it is possible for the UN independent monitoring committee to investigate whether there may be a systematic violation of the agreement. I don't see that there is any danger in a community that thinks it's working faithfully to improve the interests of the disabled. This doesn't hurt anybody. This can only halt the right and the life of those with disability ahead. This would improve the reputation and performance of the Icelandic government. All of us need to be maintained. That's all this is about. No one has to be afraid of this. The argument against this is very difficult to see. Therefore, I believe that if there is no further evidence against this, it is difficult to turn it down to a vote below. That is why it seems in the discussion that there is a basis for investigating whether the two wings of the Council can't be met to complete the matter below. I got it. I got it. A senator to look for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u49	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer for the encouragement. Well, it would be really good for all of us here and for the face of the Generals if this were going to work. I might have a place to talk about. The Ministry of Social Affairs below says: "Is there any agreement to agree to this and simply agree with everything? " A senator said. There is nothing that has been presented here to argue not to do this. Perhaps another session is due to appear in the House of Congress, but so far nothing has been made, and no one has come to deny that there is something in this appendix that is difficult to perform right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u50	A respectable president. I start out as if others were happy that this case has come to this stage. I expect it to be handled in a gentle manner. I think it's good to mention that it's a pleasure to have a case like this indiscretion. In history, however, it has been true that while there have probably been differences between people on various grounds, in fact, most of human history, almost everywhere. We can rejoice in living in a time when efforts are made to alleviate all forms of injustice, injustice, and injustice. I'd like to remind you, though, because I haven't heard anyone mention it yet. I'm going to read up here the rights that this contract specifically deals with, though there's some list: It's equal to against discrimination. The right to life, freedom and immunity. Rights to one another. Freedom from torture or other cruel, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. Freedom from economic abuse, violence, and abuse. The right to physical and spiritual immunity. Freedom of movement and the right to state. The right to lead a independent life without separateness in the community. Freedom of opinion and expression. Respect for privacy. Respect for home and family. The right to education. Right to health. Right to work. The right to a satisfying lifestyle. The right to take part in politics and public life. The right to participate in cultural activities, hobbies, leisure and sports. The reason I read it up here is because these are all rights that people always take for granted. It doesn't sound like something we should have to fight specifically for in 2016, but it's that way for some reason. It is, therefore, a joy to be late in doing so. When it comes to this group, I also feel that it is worth looking inside and reminding myself just how crazy it is, what causes the injustice. You see, between groups there are differences. True, prejudices toward disabled people are present, prejudices of various kinds, and various things that people do about disabled people with a lack of consideration. So I mention simple, but unfortunately, a common situation is when the parking lot of disabled people is used by people who are not disabled and who do not have to use such parking lots. Such a situation may be compared to the inconsiderate and indifference reflected in prejudice toward various other groups over the course of the years, such as. to women or queer people, children, elderly, and so on. But when it comes to disabled people, it is so important that we realize that it is not enough for us to minimize these prejudices. We need to work hard and be interested in reducing the wrongs these people face. When it comes, e.g. in the main issue, that sexual equality is the most important thing to reduce the way we act as individuals. When it comes to the rightfulness of disabled people, they are not enough. We certainly need to do so, but that is not enough. We also need to make sure that society itself is designed for disabled people. There are, for example. Simple things such as having doors wide enough, having a toilet position so that disabled people can use it, having parking lots for disabled people, and other things like that. There is a need to work on the adjustment. Not to be overlooked. This is not just a matter of giving up prejudice, or what it is. The problem in itself is not just what we do, but what we don't do. There is a difference between the intention of granting freedom to someone by not using it to free him or to free someone who is falsely imprisoned. Consider the most clear picture I can think of: We do not boast of walking free through the streets of town because we have not been specially imprisoned. There is no cost to securing that freedom. On the contrary. It's the cost of taking it away. When it comes to the rights of disabled people, we need to realize that we should rather view them as being free - free, and we need to correct them. It takes effort. This requires attention, often and often money. We need to be absolutely ready to do the work and do what is necessary to ensure the freedom of these people, for in the end it is about freedom. When this fine matter is accepted, and I say when, it is important also that we follow it, for the delay in the case seems to be a sign of indifference. And as I said before, all members of Congress have complained about this and wanted this contract validated, but it has taken quite a ridiculous long time. I allow myself to use that word, a respectable president; quite absurdly long. There's no need to wait so long. It's just an indifference that somehow gets to pass. I fear that after the case is approved, there will be an indifference to the changes needed. Hv. A group of Bjartar's futures have provided a bill on this issue, but this, unfortunately, did not take place. But there are others, as the report shows. It is very important that these bills be submitted to the coming terms and adopted. Then, in particular, I would like to mention a bill for a law on an independent human rights institution. There's something that takes time and effort to make, and it's important that it's done, not just to be asked because we've pacified ourselves for validating this deal. I'm afraid there's something going to be. That seems to be the pattern. As I said before, I'm happy to see how undisputed this is. So I find it a joy to see matters that I and many others would probably like to see. I think things are very likely, though they are controversial. But this is undisputed, no matter how few of the members of the council feel about it. This is a cause for joy. So I wondered, " Why is it not suggested that we also agree to the selective appendix? ' Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, a particularly respected senator, has proposed a change in the proposal that this supplement also be accepted. As he went along in his talk, there was no evidence against it in the report. It simply claims that this will not be accepted at this time without evidence there. On answers earlier, I asked why. A senator whether he could imagine a reason or whether he heard from some reason. He made a certain hypothesis, which was based on a question - maybe we shouldn't believe it altogether, you shouldn't believe in other people automatically. But what he said is clearly thought - provoking. As you can see in the report, it was decided not to accept it. It's not like he forgot. A conscious decision not to do so was taken. In view of the indecision of the agreement itself, I find it strange and tiny. I look forward to - or to - or to anxiety - or both, I don't quite know - what it is that stands in the way of it. That's what I think a country like Iceland should be able to handle. This involves compensation for disabled people. On the one hand, a complaint for individuals by the United Nations on the rights of disabled persons, on the other hand, was the way of investigating serious and systematic violations of the Convention with the approval of the Member State. I would have thought Iceland shouldn't have to worry about that very much. But knowing how people are treated in Iceland would not surprise me that they needed this, hopefully not often, but it wouldn't surprise me that it happened. Icelanders are not as promising as they are in rights as we at times think we are. It's just that way. I'm sorry. But the only theory I've ever heard of as a reason why the wood box doesn't exist this time is that it includes increased lawsuits and such. Like I went over in a short chat with what. Tenth. The Southern District, Páll Valur Björnsson, I believe that's a reason to do this. If there is a need for lawsuits, it is important that these be addressed. Unless there is a need for them to set the example for us, terms will be settled and, whatever they may be, can be continued. At least I don't see that as well as Iceland, which is a wealthy little community and can relatively easily respond to the demands of change - it's one of the positive things about being a small nation with a small economy that we can do things fast. Things can happen very fast in Iceland and actually do it in general. We should not be afraid to pick up an appendix like that, especially for that reason. We should be able to handle that. Yes, we can afford it. I have no faith that we cannot afford, that the lack of funds can be a valid reason to reject the chosen appendix. I wondered what will be the outcome of those adjustments. I'm not gonna let myself wish. A senator is happy in advance that she will be approved. But if it is not approved, it will be discussed with us now. If you are not going to agree with the annex, you might as well have a valid argument. One way to look at the matter, even if it calls for an increase in the number of government or government officials, is to view it as growing, to view it as a means of borrowing their rights while we have drawn their feet to validate this agreement. We just call it improvements or interest on the loan of taking this selective Annex with, i.e. if we are to take it as something other than for granted. As it may be clear, I vote for all of this, for I do not consider that there is another prerogative at this point and though it had been before.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u51	V.E.G. President. We're dealing with the Senate appendage. Secretary of State to validate the United Nations Convention on Infirm People and the Committee to Reconstruction. Foreign Commission hearings, opinion as a matter of course. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson went very well last night and clearly went over. The first round. I reviewed the need, basis, and need that we finally finish the contract, which is, like, valid. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson has put it, the government has underestimated how long it has taken. An article of the proposal in itself may well review the type of work that has taken place, or is involved, and it is essential for us to complete this matter. This isn't the end of the line. As I mentioned them in a talk on the council resolution proposal, this is a constant journey in which we guarantee human rights and are on the watch. I'd like to quote a few words from the committee's opinion. The Foreign Affairs Committee, with permission of the President: ▪ The agreement recognizes the human rights of disabled people, who are the same as others, but it also confirms the right of disabled people to enjoy these rights. The aim of the deal is that disabled people will enjoy all human rights and freedom of man to the full and equal to others. The point of all of this is that everyone has equal opportunities and access, and it can be the equivalent of 9 g. The agreement itself. At the same time, I brought up the discussion of the proposal that I have led a service group to the highest level. At the beginning of 2014, a welfare minister has arranged for a review of local social services and laws on the affairs of disabled persons. I then discussed the work of the Committee, as well as a report with the proposal. The situation now is that the group set out a series of prime signs, along with a report, a prime project that took place in the Ministry during the summer. The work group at that time has been given very helpful tips that are being taken into account, and the conclusion is expected to appear on the bill for a new law on the affairs of disabled people. The contract has been given all the time to guide and then to change the Community services laws so consistent. It is, of course, taking into account the social changes that have taken place, but as we know it, the group has been transferred from state to rural society and a detailed report on financial and professional reassessments, this last December. Of course, it is a personalized form that we have been developing and working in the past, and a special staff has worked with it, and we have had cooperation and consultation with it in the revision group. It is a form that suits many, perhaps not all, but it is indeed a failure to meet the rights of many to direct their own lives. All to one end, the core of the contract turns to equals guaranteed in Article 65 of the Treaty. Iceland's constitution. I hope we can share in this tour through a declaration made by this human rights agreement. I am delighted to see how the agreement on this subject is presented at the General Assembly, and to encourage it directly and thank you at the same time for the sharp reflexes and work of the day. The Foreign Affairs Commission in the processing of the case. At the end, I highlight what is presented in a committee program. Foreign Affairs Committee, i.e. An incentive to the government to have quick hands with the preparation of data so that the process can be completed by the UN General Assembly. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir can complete this process. However, there's been a little bit of a change in plans here. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son on optional accounting. That's what I'd like to say in a committee party. The Foreign Affairs Committee reports that the order of the Generals to validate it needs a different decision, and I believe that this is the case. The Foreign Affairs Committee wants to consider this matter and provide strong reasons for that, at least review the matter before a decision is made or this will be submitted to the council for a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u52	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend the discussion much. First and last, I wanted to come up here to celebrate the phase we're achieving and the solidarity that has been achieved. I also want to take this opportunity to thank you. The Court's headquarters and all members of the Committee are responsible for the rapid and reliable handling of this big issue. That would have been the only result of extensive discussions in the field. The welfare committee earlier on the basis of a suggestion made by several members of the council on the importance of finishing the matter. It helped to finish the matter as quickly and as quickly as it really is. First and last, I want to thank the committee for that. I'd also like to mention what everyone else has. Senators have made this a huge issue, and we are reaching a marvelous phase. I'm not going to do what some whiskers do. Today, members of Congress have blamed others for the delays involved or for the reasons why the matter has been resting for nearly nine years without being moved. Many have done so, but as many have been working on it, and hopefully many more, have made sure that we are now working to validate the agreement. That's a good thing to do. A senator and a front man what? Last night, the Foreign Affairs Committee Aissier Össur's Skarphéðinsson reviews the committee's opinion of why. State Department. I'm not going to do that, I know that there was a well-designed understanding of the Committee and of us that accepting and completing this work now is not just some confirmation and correctation. A lot of commitment is involved. We need to continue working with it in the form of laws and in the process of doing so. To make sure that we are serious, we need to make sure that we are clear. This is not merely a validation and formal ceremony performed when we legally validate the United Nations contract on Friday, as it stands to do, but rather make a huge commitment for Congress and nation and government to do so. I'd like to make sure we're aware of how serious and important this case is. There has been quite a debate over what has been called the selective book and has been proposed to confirm it concomitantly. The information that lays. The State Department received, and I've also received this from agents who are involved in the discussion, we're not going through that ceremony with the contract next Friday, which is totally ahead of us. Then we'd have to wait until we had to wait on the validation because there are some data that need to follow the validation. Kingdoms have taken different ways. 166 countries have validated this agreement, 90 countries have included this publication, others have asked to do so because they are not ready for the data related to it. Now we can point one another out and ask why the evidence and we are not ready. Hv. A foreign - business committee put forth all effort to finish this, as shown in the opinion of the committee, which stands word for word, a dignified president: The EEA encourages the government to have quick hands so that validation data will be ready within that time and the validation process can be completed by dispensing it to the United Nations. The ceremony will be held next Friday. All data related to the validation of the contract itself are available. The data associated with the selective accounting, however, are not available. That's why we have to finish this, and that's why the committee's saying a word in its members, with permission of the highest power. President: So the general will to validate it requires a different decision. I have no doubt. The Foreign Affairs Committee, and what? All members of Congress and Congress want to finish the booking. The constant willingness of man to complete it all indicates that we would have to wait for data. It's a possibility to take this together, but it's not going to be on Friday at the highest level. Secretary of state is now on our behalf. That's why it was considered a reason for us, and we made it so on the committee that despite the lack of the ability of the selective book, it was worth putting the case in here. I wanted to explain it to you. Then it is in the hands of the council to decide whether to wait or to do this. For an explanation, though, I wanted this to come out. This was discussed at a meeting of the Committee. First and last, regardless of the discussion of the selection of the book, I've made my opinion that, of course, Iceland should take care of it too, our minds are up to it. I think the council should finish it quickly and safely, but in order for it to happen, the evidence has to be in place. I trust the coming council to see that it's done. We all know that, and also those who have been working on these matters for longer than I do, that it is the greatest step to validate the agreement as it is now. The most important thing to do is to do so. Then, of course, we should act similarly toward the selection of the book and ask ourselves, " Do I want to validate the contract? ' The biggest step the legislatator can take now and is ready to take is to validate this contract. This week, he can deliver the privatization to the United Nations if we are able to resolve the issue quickly and safely. I sincerely hope that we have succeeded and that I have managed to explain my position in the selection process, since it was asked. Finally, the highest. Mr President, I want to congratulate all of us on this great day and first and last of those who have fought for the matter for many years that it would have to be possible. It is happening and it will be over the next few days with formal confirmation if the council decides it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and president of the State Department for an excellent speech and for going into the language we were discussing earlier, i.e. about the optional Annex. As I said before, you don't have to believe in the evil things they say about people. Therefore, I am very grateful that there is some argument about why the program will not be followed this time. Thank you. A senator for that. When I said that, I wondered, " Is it also a barrier to the general home of the government to sign the validation of the appendix? ' Can't be authorized, but later applied, i.e. After the data is ready? As a precaution, I ask: If the synopsis itself is that it involves making both parts at once, could it not be changed, and it can be done, in two paragraphs where others were dealing with validating the contract and the rest of the discussion about also validating the preferred Annex when these data are available? You see, I don't see why they should delay the process. I like the logic, we don't want to slow things down any more, so I'm sure. If that's the case, they're making some adjustments. paritaprevir If Páll Björnsson's son gets out of the way, I think it's an understanding, for many people complain about the length of the matter, away from who it's to blame. In short, a respectable president. Is it not possible to provide this authority to the authorities without being used today?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question and speculation. I am afraid to say exactly what it is right here and now, but would have thought and said without any responsibility, that the council could have this effect, either in the form of making it more clear or in the form of the council's position, would be presented as part of the idea that the government of Iceland was committed to finishing the matter. I'm sure it can be won somehow that way - and now I'm thinking out loud and waiting. The U.S. Congress apologizes - that the government or the Supreme Court. There would have to be a meeting with some evidence, but this would involve the desire of the council to finish the case. Then I would think it is otherwise than to send the highest. Minister to meeting with incomplete data. I think it's a whole different story. Is it possible to change the suggestion so that she can get her hands on it? I'm not gonna say anything about it. I don't think it sounds like much different considering the information we got into it. State Department. That's my first thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u55	A respectable president. I think the stakeholders, see disabled people, would be very happy if we were to show them by their actions, provided that it is possible, that we are going to do everything in our power to reach the preferred appendix if they do not delay the whole matter. I think there is good reason to examine that possibility fully today. I don't know if it has to vote today so that there won't be a delay Friday, I don't know what it is, but what. A senator nods. A meeting may be held until midnight today. I wonder if there's enough time. We've got the whole hour. I don't think it's that complicated. The real question is, Can this warrant be granted now and still validate the contract on Friday but respond to the preferred Annex later on on on? That's the question I feel is there during this hour and suggest that we find the answers to it. I don't expect to what. A senator will answer that question right now, and we will be in the discussion, and this is something we must consider. I'm well aware of it, if any. A senator cannot answer that question right now. But the question is not complicated. The General must have had to deal with this before, i.e. to provide a warrant that is not necessarily new some day later. I think there's an opportunity here to show by our actions that we really mean to speed things up as much as possible. If this fails, I still feel that we should be completely clear in our stand and not allow this selective insert to delay more than absolutely necessary. However, as noted earlier, it seems to me for a measure of joy, that I will not become a material opposition to a town like this, and it is vital that we do so too.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u56	A respectable president. I'll make up what I said and suggest that as long as the discussion takes place, there's only a sit-down and see if there's any surface on it. At least I don't feel like it's stopping it. It's just a question how it's spoken. I was only calling attention to the possibility that it could delay the big thing, could delay the overall thinking and the results if we were to accept an adjustment form that makes it impossible for us to reach out. But if there's any other way of showing us all the will of this additional publication, then at least I don't have to settle down and try to figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u57	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a case that is very happy that we're finishing today after a short and quick job. Foreign Affairs. But I have to say, it's sad that it's September 20th in 2016 that we're accepting this, but better late than never. We'll discuss a proposal for Congress as the highest possibility. The minister of the State of Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir moved a few days ago to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. This fine and happy agreement was signed on March 30, 2007, after its approval by the United Nations General Assembly. At the beginning of this assembly, I, along with 12 other members of the council, made a similar proposal for a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. I brought it up, and it went to the welfare committee, which called after reviews, called to them guests, discussed the matter after the domestic situation was completed, and gave the proposal, a statement printed by the committee entitled The Report of the Health Committee on a proposal for a judicial resolution of the United Nations Convention on the rights of the disabled people, and mentioned on the World Generalis website. During my first discussion of this matter, I was able to, in a brief answer to the Supreme Court. Minister, about the proposal that had been in there that could be taken immediately and accepted. During a discussion, the idea was given to the Parliament's resolution proposal to go to the State Department instead of the General and Education Committee, such as the Supreme Court. The minister suggested. A further study of the Parliamentary elements revealed confirmation of international agreements, as presented here, is the assignment of the foreign Directorates. I must commend the minister that she did so as her suggestion. The matter went to the State Department, where it was taken up at one meeting. The data and reviews that a welfare committee had worked for the evaluation of the church arrangement that I and 12 other members of Congress made at the beginning of this council, are well established. At the same time, it will tell you what to do. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Ophphdinsson, leading executive of the case, and the committees, all under control. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir - I note that the committee all worked very fast and well, which makes us discussing this with later discussions, and it'll probably be accepted later today. This is necessary because tomorrow, at the latest on Thursday, you intend to go to the top. Secretary of State will submit legal papers for Iceland at UN conference. That's why I say, "It's nice to meet you. This has been won quickly by the Foreign Affairs Committee. The leading of the matter, Össur Skarphéðinsson, brought the commission here yesterday, and a number of people declared support to the case, and I think that the entire body of Congress is going to agree to this synopsis, hoping later. When I gave the proposal that I've made that publicity was in there, if I recall correctly, that 156 states were members of this contract, plus the European Union, which has also confirmed it, 157 states and the European Union. Today, I have received information that 10 countries added this year, countries called Antiguas and Bermuda confirmed the agreement on January 7, 2016, Sri Lanka confirmed that it was February 8, Brunei, April 11, Comros, June 16, Finland, May 11, and the Netherlands of June 14, the past. The powers have become 166, but the members of the United Nations, as far as I know, are about 190. That's why I come here to discuss this with a future discussion, this important and very important subject that we're going to agree with now so that the Minister can turn up the papers at a validation meeting which is tomorrow or Thursday. It's a pleasure and good thing to do. A discussion has been made about the selective appendix called. I can't see it anywhere in the suggestion that he's specifically covered, he's part of the deal, in my opinion. I say without hesitation: Because we are so late to do this, we should consider it very seriously that we also validate the selected appendix. I ask for a backup, because I know that there has been a discussion, if we could have it in there, that the dierent accompaniment will be confirmed as soon as possible. I'm hearing that if we agreed on this, it might delay what's to happen tomorrow or Thursday. I believe it. I trust to the highest. State Department, with what. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, in the head of state and in front of the issue. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson, looking for ways to get us to finish this completely today. We owe whoever it is, i.e. The smallest of our brothers and sisters, to confirm the agreement, to validate it, and to take the step to the full. I studied this at the beginning of my speech. I mentioned the highest. The minister of the State of Alfreðsdóttir Alfred, and the successful findings that led to; a very quick and good foreign committee, which makes us here and now. A respectable president. The objective of the contract is to promote, defend and ensure equal status of all individuals regardless of the degree of impairment. The agreement provides a guide to ensuring the same human rights and opportunities as others. It includes the recognition of the international community that, throughout history, disabled people have not had the same legal rights as opportunities for socializing as others. The contract is based on social vision and disability, as per 2 mg. 1st par. The agreement that includes those with long - standing physical, mental, or intellectual impairment or impaired perception and those who face various obstacles that can prevent a full and effective community involvement from taking place just like others. What a wonderful promise! This is beautifully put in the contract and in the paper, but I'm reading here a chapter from this report for a suggestion that I and 12 other members of the council discussed. This is also discussed in a suggestion of the highest degree. Secretary of state. All of us agree on this matter. Because of the importance of the case, I'm not going to say anything more about this deal. I think we all agree on his approval. In effect, we should apologize for not having done so before, as with so many other things. It is stronger to discuss this matter or to extend the discussion. The most important thing to me, a respected president, is that we look for a solution to allow validation of the entire contract and selectional appendix, and we try to show it at the General Assembly that we can work together on matters and solutions. If the time pressure is so high as I did in the past, if there's any problem with the selection tool for translation or otherwise, it could happen that I cannot imagine happening, i.e. the submission of the conditional documents would have to be postponed. I can't imagine. I don't believe we at the Council can sit down and figure out what's going on here. So I say, in my mind, it was all in the motion that was made in the fall. I can't see anywhere discussing the exception of the above. A respectable president. I'm going to live up to what I said earlier and finish my case on this important and good matter, which I hope we will accept as soon as possible. That is why I will not extend the discussion more than I have done with my right to discuss this with a subsequent issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u58	Madam President. The reason why a foreign legal committee managed to settle matters was two very quick schemes: first, the motion as easily as possible. A senator had volunteered here with me and with some other members of the council, who were the highest. The minister of foreign affairs later presented himself. As a result, the basic work had been completed. The results of the Scientific Committee's research work were in progress when the matter came to the State Department because a foreign minister proposed a proposal that was perfunctory. A senator, so he must be thanked. Second, thanks to him. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, who showed great understanding and flexibility in using these tactics and using the work of another committee. Thanks to her. Hv. paritaprevir Similarly, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir gave a pivotal talk earlier. She declared that she would support the recording of the selective book, which was considered technical limitations. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller has a bigger test subjects at the council. So I ask him: Does he not believe that both are possible; to take into account certain technical limitations, because the discovery is not tomorrow, but the other, by completing the contract of disabled persons's rights but confirmed as well, and accepting the modification form? paritaprevir Páll V. Björnsson's son with the change, and yet that book and validation do not go into effect until January 1, 2017? Then we have completed our contract on the rights of the disabled and have instructed the future to work quickly so that, for example, it will be done. On January 1, 2017, the rest can be taken care of. A senator before, as soon as possible, so we'll finish today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u59	V.E.G. President. Well, here's the question. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, head of the case, into the technical deficiency, if there are any, due to the choice of the annex. He asks if a proposal cannot be approved. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, maybe. with an appendix that could be, like a whale. A senator mentions, January 1, 2017, or as soon as possible. I say for my part that if there are no technical boundaries on keeping the date, I would rather have it so, that the Council spoke clearly to the executives. We have agreed to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disorientated People by means of a selective Annex. But because of how it is, in fact, the lateness of the matter came in - yet it has been won professionally, well and rapidly by a foreign press committee, including the U.S. by making use of the data of another committee, an exemplary member of the General Assembly - we'll install it. If there are some technical problems with the European Commission to do all of this over the next one to two days, I would like it to be clear by the Council that we expect the Commission to confirm the selective annex on January 1, 2017 or ◯ as soon as possible. It's a solution, it's a compromise that may be necessary because of technical difficulties, such as wiggling. A senator talked about it. That's why I say, "Yes, let's try to do this." By all means, Mr. Honorable President, I would like to say that we will not let this day slide without finishing this matter. We owe it to people, and in reality we should apologize for not having lived long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u60	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir arrived here in the speech chair earlier today and declared that on her part there was no basis for agreeing with the selection of the book. Only technical difficulties made it impossible to do so today. However, she expressed full and irrefutable support for this. Another senator. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Thor Þórsson spoke here in a way that earlier I could not better understand that he, a senator of the Convention, was exactly that way, as a boy. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, that he would support the selection of the book for performance and development. It makes me feel like we're in a position that can be solved. There is a possibility that not only the supporters of the contract on the rights of disabled persons but also the idea that the selective book will also be validated. It's a technical solution, says the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. All right. This will be resolved by the way we are discussing it. We validate the agreement on the rights of the disabled. We accept a new proposal. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son that we do the same thing for our selective accounting, but let's speed up the validation into the future, e.g. January 1, 2017, or as soon as possible. At that time, the public system will receive all the time it takes to prepare for the validation of the book, but the council has settled the matter and has been given clear instructions on its will. Case solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u61	V.E.G. President. One of the few advantages of these last days of this council is that of accepting many suggestions. As a result, smaller things and more things often sit down over issues and talk to their conclusions, finding solutions. In this case, I do not use the terms control or control. In this matter, we are all more of it. Therefore, I rejoice over what has been presented here as to the selective appendix and say, because of the anguish. A senator mentioned the date of January 1, 2017: It can be added by saying that it will be no later than January 1, 2017. That may even be better. The sooner the government system feels up to it, the better it is to complete the preferred Annex sooner. I trust each other. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter and what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer, the chairman of the case, as well as other members of the Foreign Affairs Committee to work out a solution during the discussion. I can offer, more dignified president, to hold here more talks while men are sitting in the side rooms of the Generals to work out a solution on this matter. But the main thing is that we complete the motion by validating the contract. I hope we all, more things and smaller things, find a mutual solution to the other. The important thing is to the top. The secretary of state may hand the papers to the plagion meeting, whether it is on Wednesday or Thursday. V.E.G. Minister is at the UN General Assembly, and I think it is most convenient for me to do so. Secretary of State will complete all of this. That's the main thing. A respectable president. I reiterate what I said: Let's see if we can find a solution, and let's finish this now, despite the hope of it later. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We should have done it a long time ago. We'll probably be rich. 167 who validates the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u62	Madam President. Even now, I would like to, as an executive of the State Department, to thank all those who have participated in this discussion. I had expected the highest. A social minister, Harðardóttir Hardardddóttir, who has spent most of his time during the discussion, would also speak up. Maybe she's on the rosary. I think we're making a big move here. I think it's impressive to see how much solidarity seems to exist in the United States to complete the validation of this agreement. In effect, it is amazing that during the short period of time, the matter has been resolved. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs made the matter clear last week. They talked about the middle of the week. Friday's State Department ended the case. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, Hannah, for the understanding and smoothness she showed interested persons on the progress of the matter within the foreign committee. The matter could not have been moved so quickly to the council just before it was due to this understanding. It is important that you do so. Similarly, there is a need to know that this was not the least because of the problem. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller had taken the initiative to submit along with 12 other members of the Parliament's resolution of the Treaty on the rights of the disabled. I was among them, and I was delighted to give my name in support of that matter. That's why I'm here as the head of the committee opinion. Of course, it was strange to have the highest. The minister of foreign affairs later proposed a proposal that was exactly the same as the one before. The only difference was that we didn't have access to the contract, which is complex and great, in Icelandic, which, of course, had the State Department of State. In that respect, that proposal went more technically. As was the case. I'm not going to go anywhere and find out who's got the initiative rights for the case. What matters most is that men like what they are. paritaprevir Kristján Ásmundur Möller and Friðriksson, each in his own wings of politics, are united to support this agreement. I also believe that we have discussed ourselves with a sort of solidarity that adjustments can also be arranged. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson requested a selectional book. A lot of people believe that it would work well, and it would be the best if they could also finish the selective book. We members of the Parliament know that there are many in the Microcracy, in its lead, and among the various groups of disabled people who are in the form of them. Therefore, I believe that the solidarity that has been established should be used to help us complete that issue as well. I'm especially celebrating the sharpness of the day. paritaprevir And the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Kristjánsdóttir Kristiandir, who went to the chair earlier, clearly explained that she could not see any material objections against accepting the rules of accounting as well. However, it did specify a technical problem that she had received from government officials in the local Ministry and other problems. I accept it. Then I'll say, " Let's meet both views. ' It is possible, in addition to agreeing to the pact itself on the rights of the disabled, to accept also a change form, while the government may be assigned to validate the selective account, but to shoot a date into the future and then to say it in such ways, Madam President: ◯no later than January 1, 2017.◯ This means that the government and the Ministry have time from day to day to prepare the induction and do so on the first occasion, but they still have the likeness that they must do so no later than January 1, 2017. Then everyone would accept this matter, and everyone would have a lot of respect. The agreement presented here, so I'll go back to it and close the section of my talk that deals with the selection of the book, does not in itself include reputations for rights for those with disability or some form of development impairment. Most of the rights found in the many parts of the contract can also be found in other covenants, where they are equally loyal. This covenant is not required to create new rights. What distinguishes this agreement between the rights of the United Nations disabled and various other older human rights contracts, as I've traced earlier today, that in the new agreement on which the rights are applied much better and more fully, they are adapted to the reality of disabled people in order to provide effective, realistic protection. In my case earlier today, I have given two examples of what this contract will further explain about, for example. Freedom of expression. The contract makes it clear that the protection of the freedom of expression by disabled persons in the contract means that countries that accept and validate this agreement are obliged to recognize and contribute to the use of signed language and to the use of Braille. Similarly, the agreement is an explanation that the right to education is without separation. This is one of the old and new battle cases of those who have been trying to extend the rights of disabled Icelanders. Likewise, it may be the main point of the contract that aims to take into consideration the situation. paritaprevir To this day, the Steinunn Árnadóttir Arnad said so beautifully: We are all people of all sorts. I said, "I need to find a place for everybody." We're all special. Of course, our work, which is working to improve the rights of the disabled, at my place of employment, is in our heart a desire to give everyone the freedom to pursue their own lives in the way that they want, without being inhibited, because they have disability. This, for example, means that people should be allowed to live their own lives without separateness in their community. It means that people should have the freedom to have the freedom, the right, and the help of society to live in the way they want and in the way that they feel is best for them. There have been discussions here about the optional accounting of the contract. We can ask ourselves, " What are the rights there? ' They are important to some, perhaps the most important to individuals or groups. The selection form for this contract allows individuals or group of individuals who feel that they are subject to violations of the terms of the contract to take their case to the international monitoring committee, which is to be agreed on by the Convention regardless of the category of rights. That's all there is to it. Icelanders have no reason to fear this. This involves more rights, and many feel it's important. That's what you do, for example. The UN independent surveillance board is able to investigate to form complaints that a systematic violation of the rights of the disabled may be carried out in Iceland. The government today says there is no such thing. What, then, is the risk of allowing and supporting the approved optional publication? Of course not. Madam President. Of course, much is yet to be done. When the government I was initiating work to prepare for this contract, it was part of a special program adopted in 2012 for the disabled. At that time, the system's writebacks were hidden, including The task of preparing the validation of this contract no later than 2014. It has fallen apart, perhaps because of hard work being done to get Icelandic rights. Every law in Icelandic law was reviewed to find out in what way Icelandic law would have to be added so that it would agree with and measure up to the agreement on the rights of the disabled. There have been many reforms, several laws have been changed, e.g. Re-election. Changes were made to meet regulations 29 C.E. The deal, the election law in 2012. The changes were also made in Icelandic legislation in the preceding year, in 2011, when the Council adopted a law on the rights of disabled persons. There are many changes that have already led to our efforts and the decision to work to validate the contract. But better, if it's enough. This discussion has shown that there are many laws that still need to be corrected. Like what? paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller said, and I know why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, former president of the Legal Society, both of us agree that it is not unusual for us to see that a law against discrimination has not yet been passed. Such laws have been valid for 16 years in the European Union, the relationship that some do not want to enter at all. At least those who want to live in an environment where any form of discrimination is forbidden would feel comfortable within that good relationship. I'm not gonna get that conversation involved. So we need to see here the bill on the ban on discrimination. It is also possible to answer a number of aspects of the contract on the rights of disabled persons, as well as a bill that changes the local community service laws. Of course, when these bills have appeared, they are far away. I can't complete this speech, Madam President, without referring to an experimental project on the NAPA, i.e. provisional regulations adopted by the 1992 legislation were to be completed by the end of 2014. During that period since 2014 and until the day of dato, a minister would provide a bill for a song that would be suggested to employ personal assistance as a primary form of service to disabled persons. It happened at the end of 2014 and then again in 2015 that the project was postponed with the improbable uncertainty and difficulty of the situation for all who fall below. If the highest. Minister Eygló Harðardóttir, is here somewhere near as she's supposed to be, I ask her, When will the Minister intend to present that bill? The end of the council is coming, and it won't get any worse. In my company, Reykjavík, there are 13 individuals who have a contract for the user-controlled personal service. There are people who have a contract in 2016. The same applies to people in Hafnarfjördur, Kópavogi, Garða, and the West. The continuation of this project is completely uncertain. It is very important to receive answers from the highest level. Minister and I would like those answers in this discussion about how the highest level is. Minister is going to respond to the position of this group. They are people who have staff on notice, and they need to be informed no later than at the next month's meeting if they are to be laid off by three months' notice. The minister needs to explain this as soon as she gets here, expecting to beat her to the chest for serving in a government to propose a validation of a contract on the disabled. What about the rights of those who enjoy NPA? Madam President. There's a lot of other things I could say. Finally, though, I would like to say that it is a festival day, a happy day, and a joy to have him come up on the day of the Society's campaign, the development society of people, in 1993. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How appropriate that the campaign and validation of this contract will have the same birthday in the future!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u63	Madam President. I won't have this much, but we're all interested in completing this proposal so that the validations can be sent west through the ocean in time so that Iceland, although late, will be in the group that will be added as a valid member of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. Of course, it is a pleasure to be in such a situation, knowing that the documents are en route west, and that we finally pull up our pants on these matters, but it is sad to be in this situation in the late September 2016, that Iceland has not yet validated the contract, in view of the fact that in June 2012, it was decided that it should and did so with hope that about A year and a half would last. There was then a program on disabled subjects set out that it would be possible to complete this task in 2013. It's turned out to be more busy than this. I think it's nice that men sometimes face themselves. As a result, I rejoice that a foreign legal committee joins its committee under the health committee's status that the government has failed as it should. We simply are not complaining about it, and we readily acknowledge that these situations have not been handled in a decent way. To this it is, of course, better late than never, and it can be said that it is quite present at the last moment and, of course, far beyond it. This is not acceptable for developed countries such as Iceland which are not supposed to be involved in the unpleasant problems of e.g. This type of legal recovery, changing the required legal requirements, and not lacking our resources, but for what is one of the world's richer peoples to contribute to this arrangement. As mentioned earlier, the course was immediately developed by signing the contract in its own time. Let us suppose that such a person will only be to the point of validating the process, and it is immediately, as it is known, on March 30, 2007, so that, of course, it is entirely condemned that it has been very high for ten years. There is, of course, a matter to end this. Third, I'd like to say regarding the optional appendix that in the National Affairs Committee's Committee of State, the Ministry assured the committee or stated to the Commission that unless it was due to the agreement itself, it was out of the question. This is something other than really being discussed in a welfare committee, where we took this matter for granted. At that time, the representatives of the council, which appeared to the committee, could likewise be understood that it was possible to validate both. Now it's not possible, i.e. If you do not arrive tomorrow or before the appointed time, because the validation documents have been prepared in relation to the agreement alone, not the chosen book, but, of course, that does not prevent the General from taking a prince's position to do so. I think it's the lonely thing to do. I'm aware that in progress there is a new proposal that would be prepared by the Generals, that the Council would not only give the Commission authorization to submit the validations but also that it would be necessary to appoint the Commission to do so for some specific time limit. Then when that princely decision has been made, there is no need to bring the case here again. It is very simple to add with the appropriate text, and hopefully it will be done before making a decision on the matter. Fourth, I'd like to mention that I've been completely convinced that after considering this matter on the welfare board, we're supposed to validate the contract, then we're going to have as soon as possible to let the whole deal go, pick it up as a law. It differs from validating on the basis of a synonym and then making certain arrangements in a special set of laws here and there. It is in my mind that the position of the deal will be the strongest if it is a lawual text. This has a sufficient number of proverbial lawyers, which I believe will convince me of the end, since there are just two of the most important contracts in this area, or it can be said to be related, the European Convention and the United Nations Children's Convention, both laws in Iceland. In other words, they were not only validated by Iceland but also supported by the law of the country. Each branch of them is law, and men can seek justice on the basis of it. This is my position, that this task will not be completed until we have not only validated the contract and the optional accounting, but also legalized at least. The contract itself. I don't know if anyone has gone so far as to legalize an appendix or a book, I doubt it, I believe it is, for example. Only the European Convention itself, which is a law in Iceland. In my opinion, the validation is as self-recognised as the legalization that hopefully follows, and although it does, it does not mean that everything in the material is guaranteed, that the disabled will automatically enjoy all the rights the contract is intended to bring. It's just not like that. I think we should be very aware of that, as soon as we celebrate this as a long, timely phase, that that is not all at sea. They must be willing to take the steps necessary to achieve the objective of the contract and purpose and to have the full rights of those who are disabled as possible. It takes a great deal of ambition, money, some of which may be change of mind, consciousness of the lawsuit, and a great understanding of it. To some extent it may be about education and change of mind in this country too, of course, especially in the administrations and other places where these rights are involved, in conduct, in budgets, etc. Of course, there is a step to validate and then legalize the contract. He thus creates a foundation and a guarantee that if governments are to stand up for themselves, they will be able to receive the rights. Therefore, I think the legalization is of utmost importance, for there is no doubt that it is stronger to have disagreements that might arise as to whether governments have done what is needed and necessary and can be expected of them. It is better to apply on the basis of law, not merely validation. My dream vision is that e.g. The next year the optional publication will be validated by Iceland and the contract will soon be established. I am so optimistic as to believe that I will have that moment at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to hear a little bit more about the idea he brought here to make the deal by himself. The children's covenant and the United Nations Human Rights Convention were legalized for my time, so I don't know how it works. Is this done by making a minister such a bill? Is there a law that says the deal is in effect, and then the lyrics are applied to such cases? In case of a moment. A senator could tell me how it would work in praxize if I thought it would be very interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u65	Madam President. If I recall that story correctly, the child-circuit was legalized, some years after it was accepted as a law. But in the case of the Convention of Human Rights, I am not quite familiar with the prehistory, whether it was simply introduced in this way and made a law and became part of the Law Museum. Then each article became such a part of the Icelandic Law Museum. It was only done in the usual way, like when the law is passed, I know, because the deal actually came in as a bill and was legal. It may be a complicated issue for us players who are not legalized to expound in detail what the difference is, but he's there, I've been absolutely convinced after asking lawyers about this matter. Lawyers accept what comes to the table on the other side and are in the position of providing disabled services or guaranteeing them rights, e.g. ... fromthecommunicities. They feel that it changes the issue that the contract as such is legalized. I believe it. The European Convention of Human Rights has been extremely trying, and Iceland has repeatedly changed the arrangement because the European Court of Human Rights was created and made legal and human rights on the basis of it, as shown by the separation of the politicians and the police and much more in that respect, judgments and investigations, as well as the things we know. It was famous when a man was taken on a bicycle in Akureyri, and it drew the long track that we had to replace the police and the judiciary system because we received a report from the European Committee of Human Rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u66	A respectable president. I am not going to extend this discussion, but at this joyful hour, when we are finishing this discussion on the validation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, I am concerned with gratitude for those who have been involved in this matter over the past few years and years. For those who are involved, this is an act of justice. The objective of the contract is, as stated in Article 1. He, that disabled people enjoy all human rights and freedom to the full, as well as to protect and ensure such rights and freedom, and to increase respect for their natural dignity. That's a noble and beautiful word. Now that we have just a few moments, we will agree to this agreement, and there will also be some adjustments in the selectional appendix, which is important for the government to come into effect as the next year. There is now a plan to agree on this treatment. I'm happy that the council will show this will to finish these matters today and just want to congratulate us when the vote is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. I want to thank the State Department for how fast and well she has won this case and also want to thank the welfare committee for her contribution to the progress of the situation. Today, the importance of our joining in accepting the approval of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people has been repeatedly demonstrated. I think we all agree that we would have liked to stand here earlier, be able to finish the deal sooner. But I think it also became very clear in the discussion that this is a very specific beginning, we will continue working on the validation, enforcing the law of the contract. There are a number of cases in which I think it is very important to enter the council, that there are changes in the law on rural social services that are very important, as well as laws on the affairs of disabled persons who have been working on for a considerable period of time. It is also of great benefit to have found here how the council has sought a way to make this proposal even better by considering an appendix made on the contract and making it clear that it is the will of the Council to see the introduction in Iceland too. A few questions were addressed to me during the discussion. I wanted to give special attention to this here that I think it's very important that the law forbids discrimination in the labour market and also certain discriminatory principles involved in other discrimination issues. Often, you are eager to do much more than you may be able to do at any given time. My emphasis, already involving disabled persons, has been to ensure that we have funds for the work that the Senate has assigned us to do through a program adopted in connection with our working on this validation. A highly ambitious projection program was set, but, among other things, because of difficult circumstances in the financial situation, finance was not guaranteed. At the same time, I have put much emphasis on completing the transfer of the group to the countryside and working with my rural society to develop and promote the services that disabled people have a right to live independent lives and without separation. Also stated in the discussion that the forwarding of disabled persons is that I have put much emphasis on watching over and over again the factors that have been observed in research to make the most of the difference when it comes to poor people, i.e. lack of housing, housing costs, and medical expenses. We have been able to achieve a high level of cooperation here at the council, with a new social housing system, a payment system, and a guarantee of increased money into the health system. I will admit, however, that I was disappointed that my social security issues were not to be met, my social security changes, the changes in disability reform systems, and, hence, the disabled. It's been doing all the work, and I haven't been able to bring in anything like the changes I've suggested about the pension of the elderly. I have often thought about the first speech of the President of Iceland here at the council, when he spoke of the importance of the media, that they also matter; that we join together, take steps forward, and pursue in the right direction. Beautiful words are important, but we also need to make sure that we provide them, that we secure funds and continue working on things one step at a time. [[Up front.]] Here we are taking an important step, but we will continue to take more steps and work on the rights of disabled people, for this is of utmost importance. Once again, I thank you to the council, and finally it is a pleasure to be here as a foreign minister. I thank them at the same time. Minister of Lilja Dögg Alfreðsdóttir for suing this case at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u68	Madam President. It's going to the highest. Ministers are well dressed as foreign ministers, as are many others. I threw it to the top. Minister to question today, aided by the user-management. I asked her about the position of that project and told her that at the same time we are agreeing to commit the government to validate the civil rights of the disabled is a group of people here in Reykjavík and in many communities, with their entire lives in turmoil. These are people who live in disability and who have had a contract about NPA. According to a provisional law, the Supreme Court had the highest power. Ministers to set out, before the end of the last year and before the end of this year too, the bill on how to arrange it in the future. These are people who have contracts that run out at this time of the year. What is the situation of such ones? It's very upset. I've been waiting for a chance to ask the highest. Minister to this. Here's your chance. Now, under the discussion today, I'll raise these questions to her. I think it's very important for these people to know what their future is. The agreements these people make and also the plans that men have to legalize the MPA can be determined by a large number of people who live in uncertainty. It may be a little late to ask about it right now on this day when a formal campaign campaign is being announced. However, I would like to ask the highest. Minister of all kindness: How is the situation handled by these people?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u69	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this inquiry. I agree with that. A senator who uses MPA, or user - controlled personal assistance, is a very important service. It was very important to me that we amass the experiment we started and get results from it. The project started later than we planned, often wanting to perform the experiment. I expect to receive final results and instructions from the project director. I wanted to add that a committee on my side has been given a review of changes in the service to disabled people. This service arrangement is expected to be legalized. The committee has not yet returned this draft to me. Rather, it wanted to put the matter in a review process and to respond to reviews. It has been criticized that some aspects of the experimentation project are expected to be extended while it is agreed on a sectoral income exchange. I just want to say here that I think we should validate this. We can't keep this up as a test project, but it's supposed to be an arrangement we're offering. We need to figure out how to solve the local community costs. That is what lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u70	Madam President. I do not question the good will of the Minister, but a good will is light in your pockets just as a word does. This may not include a large group of individuals, but a number of individuals whose lives depend on it all. V.E.G. A minister was committed, by law, if I recall correctly, by a special provisional law, to present a bill of this. It didn't work for 2014, as if I recall standing in the law. She was supposed to do it for 2015, and neither did she. Now we're coming to elections, and I don't believe that. Minister's plan is to disseminate the head of the Department of Social Affairs without at least to ensure what will be the future of those who live through these contracts. V.E.G. A minister has clearly told the state of the matter and told the council that I am understood by differences within the committee that uses this bill as such differences cannot be made, differences as well as differences between state and rural society. I ask her now when there is a month of election, and it turns out that it could take a long time to form a government: How will she part with these individuals? It would be a fine blow at the end of this discussion that at the end of this discussion, she offered a rather clear vision of how she will see to it that their future will not be in complete uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u71	A respectable president. I hope so. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson noticed that I am accustomed to fighting for my ways. However, in an effort to reach a conclusion, it is important to listen to different viewpoints and compromises, as I discussed in my talk. I've heard a lot about disabled people that it's important that these measures be legalized. It was also emphasized that the experiment was going to have to be made. We've secured funding for the experiment and it's almost over. I also place a great deal of emphasis on it, and it must be reflected in the bills that will enter the council, adaptability in the services of disabled people. That's what I hear they're calling for. It is not that most people see the benefits of being employers or paying employees for wages but that people can choose that service at a time when it is suitable for them to live independent and free lives. That's what needs to be reflected in the bills that come here to the council. That's what the committee's been working on. I certainly hope that the comments that have been made will be taken into account so that we can continue to improve the lives of disabled people in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u72	A respectable president. I come up here to retract my proposal for a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people on deck. 1676, but also measuring for other forms of thawing. 1688. It is entitled: Changes to a proposal for a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. Transporters with me, Páll Valur Björnsson's son are why. The members of Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristun's daughter, Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson, Ahl, Haphn the Hrafn of Gunnarsson, and Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of Arjörn. Editing reads: In addition to the proposal, there will be a new case, as follows: The General concluded that a selective addition to the contract should also be validated by the end of 2017. It is suggested that, in addition to the agreement, its addition will also be validated. The Annex includes important restorations for disabled persons, one of the ways for individuals to be called by the United Nations on the rights of disabled persons, and the way for the committees to investigate serious or systematic violations of the agreement, with the approval of the Member State. In my death, I had more hope than the suggestion I made here had that effect. But I'm glad that this shook well in the discussion of the rights of disabled people. It may have shown that we are not doing well enough and that we have not done well enough to defend the rights of disabled people. I made this suggestion in a good belief that the selective book could be accepted, I just thought it would be that way. I withdraw that proposal because I received confirmation from the Ministry, from the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs, my ass. The head of the State Department, etc., that this work was not available, that there would be work to do on this selection. It is quite amazing that for nine years, nothing has been won in this regard. That underscores what I said earlier that we are not doing well enough in this group of languages. It's just that way. At the Council, good people work. We came here to the conclusion earlier in midpolitic, contenting the process of making these adjustments. All of us are to be commended for this, for we should not argue about holding property laws in terms of the rights of the people of the land. That's where we're supposed to stand together as one. The inhabitants of this land are like ours, and they are to enjoy exactly the same rights that we do. This selective book guarantees the legal status of the disabled and makes them totally equal to others in the community. There's nothing to argue about. We're supposed to see our dignity in finishing it. We're about to validate the contract, which is a great step, so everybody in the community is celebrating. It's a phase victory. We won another phase, with this case confirmed and validated next year. Then we will not stop until it has been legalized. We're here to put it under attack - we may already be here in the fall, but those coming to Congress in the fall - are going to legalize the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. Then we can celebrate. It is a fine victory that we have won today, a milestone, and let us all rejoice in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u73	The general president encourages optimism.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u74	A respectable president. I'm not going to repeat a speech I delivered earlier today on the importance of this confirmation and validation that I hope we will finish below. This is a big, important step, and all of us deserve to be thanked for what is in this room and much more so for that large phase. Only as a result of the new proposals presented here, I think there is another victory. What a joy it is to be at work, sometimes thinking only in solutions, and this happened in the last hour when the senators saw that there was a solution! I would also like to use this opportunity and thank the officials who came here on a long line to help us make sure that this could happen in this way. Now the council has been and everyone has a what? Councilmen, if this is agreed, say loudly and clearly that we believe that this agreement will be validated, but it will also ensure that the selection of the book and the possibility of an upcoming interview is no later than before the end of 2017. It's very clear here, setting good lines for the rest. I was proud to be a senator when we resolved this. Thank you very much for that. I think people can be more optimistic and successful if we put each other on our backs today instead of being in the rearview mirror and evaluating each other in this matter. Congratulations on that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u75	V.E.G. President. It's a happy day at the General Assembly today that we agree to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. It'll go well with you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson mentioned that today, September 20, this is the founded date of the campaign, the development - inhibitor society of which was established in 1993. I like others to thank you. The Foreign Affairs Committee, especially the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, and what. paritaprevir The scandalous son of Skarphéðinsson, who is the head of the case, for keeping the matter in the chamber, participated in all this discussion, and led to our being gathered here, all of the members of Congress, to participate in a vote and accept this agreement. I'd like to thank you too. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, who moved a change proposal to make a decision about the selection appendix and, quite specifically, for getting up and making it possible for all members of the body to suggest that it does not take effect until January 1, 2017. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It would be better for us at the Council to apply more frequently for our search for solutions, as this has been done. Then, at the next assembly, the Generals wait to follow this decision in various legal adjustments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to be at that assembly, but I'm going to join the pressure group to get them on. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. On the Web site of campaigns, it contains a large letter of some kind: Respect has value, needs, and rights of all people. With this approval, we take a big step in that direction. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm sorry I've gone a little ahead of time. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u76	President hit the bell very gently.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u77	V.E.G. President. I am thrilled that we are taking a vote to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. This is a matter that I don't know how many times I've been in my speeches since I sat in the General Assembly. This is of utmost importance, not just for disabled people, but for everyone in the country. As soon as I declare that I will, of course, support the adjustment of the council proposal that I am one of the partners who would like to thank all of them on this occasion. Council members who have participated in the discussions and have contributed to the both validation and to bring about the approval of the convention's votes. [[The president calls.]] This is totally important, so I wish all of us, as well as the rest of the community, to congratulate us on this milestone.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u78	A respectable president. It is a festival that is now a validated covenant for human rights of disabled people ten years after completing our contracts for him at the United Nations headquarters in New York City. It is also a joy to see that in these last days, the Council has shown that it has not been at the Council to validate this covenant. Finally, when the case came in here, it was done quickly and safely. I believe that it was exemplary at the council, and I hope that this proposal will be resumed in the progress of the disabled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u79	A respectable president. I'm celebrating it, like any member of Congress, and thanking the Senate for your work this time. I call to note that the results of what has happened here come from this piece of music at the General Assembly. It was the conversation of a senator in this pita that led to this and, of course, other conversations in other parts of the house. I look forward to the next time I meet someone on the road and hear another one of the bad things going on over the Council, I'm going to tell him a good story, and that will be the story of that day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u80	Mr. President. I withdraw my proposal, but I'm just going to share its contents, for I have hopes that the committee will respond positively and positively to these suggestions and would like them to be mentioned between discussions. These include: The economic situation of those who apply for the application and those who are applying for environmental issues and who wish to get abduction. These tragicities in the indications that Iceland's Institute of Environment has brought and National Protection, and I will present other forms of change, assuming that the minority members will be on it and even more of it, I hope everyone will be there, to raise the criteria for the failure. The target for today is below the minimum wage limit, i.e. Two million. K. In a year, people earn virtually no income if they are to be paid for and they are not going to make it. There's some tips that have come from all these sources, and I hope we can do this right between the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u81	A respectable president. It is not much to add. A senator mentioned earlier. It defines the issue that the criteria are too low. It seems like it's a lot to agree on fixing it. I suggest that we continue to show the spirit of cooperation that we have shown today and to correct this matter, and I rejoice that these adjustments will be made to a committee between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u82	A respectable president. This case may be a minor concern, it is a decision to transfer a divorce to a businessman, but it is largely underlying factors, in fact, what is not in the bill that raises questions. It is not becoming an increase in financial standards for slavery that make those criteria just too low, so I don't really know who is reaching out on a financial basis. There are all kinds of questions about who in the country can afford to seek their rights in court. This case should be a reason for us to do so, i.e. Those sitting here in the future, going into the stitches on whether or not an equal state of law against this country can afford to attend e.g. their right to strong institutions, businesses, and so on. That is what Land Protection is saying, that we do not enter this arrangement for the fulfillment of the Communication Convention, that lawyers can seek their rights by the application of environmental greed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we now sit by and hope that this will be changed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u83	A respectable president. This is where we vote for a implementation plan on the affairs of immigrants for 2016-2019, the first to be elected by the Council, and that is a great cause of joy. It identifies 30 projects in five areas. It provides the basis for the cooperation of many parties on the vital task that all can be active members of the community regardless of nationality or background.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u84	A respectable president. I thank the council and the General and Education Committee for the implementation of this case and for the support of it. This is very important, here we are framed by the key projects involved in the affairs of immigrants and refugees. Here is a new support that has special attention to refugees, who are relatively new in our society and that is very important to us. A recent number of places I set before a government this morning show that there is a large rise in people of foreign origin who are moving here, which is entering the labour market, according to the labour market. We need to do this and make sure that those who choose to live here can do so, adjust to society, and become part of it in the best possible way. Finally, I want to say what was especially fun for me to get information about today that of the refugees who had gone to the Work Office for Help to get a job, 65% of them were in full - time service within a year. [[The president calls.]] We see that the people who come here are certainly going to have an active share in the community, and this strategy is exactly designed to put their arms around them and to support them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u85	Mr. President. I think it is of utmost importance that as a community, when it comes to dealing with immigrants, we make plans for a projection, and that's why I rejoiced to see that Senate arrangement when it was discussed earlier in the winter. In fact, I made comments to the wording I directed to the Committee to review specifically as a staff of B.7, where it is discussed how to improve the support network of women of foreign origin who have had domestic violence. I thought the wording might be misunderstood, and the women themselves were actually held accountable for the violence. This was considered by the committee and proposed a change in my proposal, which I welcome, as well as other adjustments made by the committee. The committee has, in my opinion, done a very good job, and I am happy that such a projection program is important. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to finally say we have to put more money in this suit in the future. [[The president calls.]] It is extremely important to have such a good time in our community, for it truly is for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u86	A respectable president. This series of issues in which immigrants and foreigners are likely to be spoken of as the only responsibility in this case that we can bear is to put more intensity and to close our borders, and something like pushing away the fact that we are moving people here for various reasons. That's irresponsible. It's a responsibility. This is how we need to deal with the potential problems that may arise in the wake of transport, various problems, including that people sometimes get into the community they move to. It's a problem we have to solve, and we do it by such means, not by harsh means, but by assuming that here we are moving people and that we need to help them to adjust to our community, not just our own foreigners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u87	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the CREEP Council. The bill aims to change the budget of the decisions made by government officials, executives, and others under the decision of the Board of Elders, which is to reduce substantially those determined by the Board of Justice and other remunerations. The objective of the bill is to reexamine those who take pay according to standard labour contracts and, on the other hand, that those who are unable to negotiate regularly because of the nature of their jobs have more resources for decisions made in terms of pay and their salary than at present. Up to 74th. The Constitution requires the right of men to establish societies for every legal purpose, including unions. That is what 2 mg says. 75. g. The Constitution that the rights of a person to negotiate his employment and other work-related rights are under legal legislation. This law must then be explained in the light of international agreements validated or legally validated by Iceland. It is mainly part of the European Convention of Human Rights, but freedom of society is guaranteed in Article 11. His. Up to 74th. The Constitution presents the rule that guarantees freedom for all citizens to become members of the legal organisation. Classes are specifically mentioned there and show how important the function of the trade unions and their freedom to action is in the mind of the chairman. One of the most important roles of a trade union is to negotiate collective agreements. State unions of public employees have a law on government agreements for public staff markets in general. It attributes the role of the partners and establishes rules about the most important factors in their activities. Among other things, they find the total count of the conditions that the budget must meet in order to operate and the conditions where it can apply its authority to the law. However, the right to negotiate a remuneration is protected in 75 st. The constitution, even though it is then referred to the Lawgiver, to expand further on the import of the right thing. However, in spite of the right to negotiate a salary, the legislatator has felt the need for law-oriented judges to remuneration for some of them, where the remuneration is not expected to depend on contracts normally because of the nature of the job or a contract position. The evidence that has been presented for having a legal ruling party is, in general, in two kinds, in terms of the terms of the terms and the highest authority of the European Commission and the judicial authority; and in other cases, men who do non-contracted jobs because of the nature of their jobs, either because of security reasons or because they represent the State and those in the most exclusive matters. In evaluating which remuneration is determined by a legal authority, it is appropriate to include only the highest rulers of the country, the judges of the country because of their special status under the Constitution, and certain government officials as the nature of the work because of the particular authority. The rationale for this system is that it is abnormal to perform a blood transfusion on the individual's salary level. Trends over the past few years have been attributed to increased central management and too much of those under the Council of Staff Decision, but there is a reason for the nature of the work and speciality of the European Commission. In this regard, it is not merely a reference to the changes that took place after the financial collapse but to the fact that over a longer period of time the trend has been in this direction. With the freedom of society and the contract, the main objective of the bill is to reduce the number of people determined by the board to pay and other remunerations and that they are governed by contracts normally based on the nature of the profession or contracts. A respectable president. So the bill suggests some changes in the law of advice and other laws in harmony with the changes made on the Board of Elders. First, that it will be solely the task of the Council of Elders to determine the salary and salary of the human standings, judges, prosecutors, Ministers, Ministers of State Directors and the office of the Board of Directors of Staff who will hear a Minister who will handle the government's staff business and give an answer on behalf of a minister in the preparation of collective labour agreements, bank managers, bank managers's assistants office, and state of statehood. Secondly, the elected office manager at the Iceland Board and the ambassador will take into account collective agreements in the usual way, i.e. the contracts of the college staff of the Board of Directors, and the approval of assistant ministers take into account the elected office manager of the Board of Directors. Third, a specific work unit that works on the responsibility of financial and economic ministers will be assigned to determine a further basic category and subclasses, as well as the presupervision for extra payings, but the local minister's management or the management of subclasses and additional salients on the basis of the Commission's specific work unit, where the Directorates of state bodies will be able to monitor and sing to their partners on matters of opinion that may be developed for the sake of the classification of the work and the Presidency, i.e. that this special unit of activity should be given to you. Fourth, the decision of an executive partner and other types of partner, the private rights, which are more part of the State and the Commission members of partner and other members, private rights, which are more than part of the State's rights, will be restored to the relevant administration, where the government normally negotiates the salary and employment of the Commission on the basis of the Community's employment policy and established government policies. Fifth, the decision of a bishop, a bishop of dedication, the most testicipant and priest of the National Church depends on contracts within the National Church, but will not follow the decision of a collective body if the arrangement exists between state and State, Church, government, and State, from 1997 to the 60th Cathedral. track No. 78/1997, on the status, management and conduct of the National Church, saying to deal with the agreement will determine the decision of this party, the bishop, the act of dedication, the test and the priest, according to the agreement, and otherwise those listed here will remain under the advisement. Therefore, the main purpose of this bill is to change the budget of the remuneration in such a way that pay and other remuneration are greatly reduced in terms of pay and remuneration. If the bill continues to be accepted, the decision will reduce the number of those who fall under the Council of Surgeons as per the bill about 430 but after the number of 150, of which 63 members of the Council and 64 judges. In these figures, then, an agreement with the National Church is being made. [[For example, consider: A way of meeting with the State Church?]] Yes, i.e. that an agreement with the National Church on the change in the approval of an bishop, a bishop, a tester, and a priest will be subject to treaties. If not, those listed here will remain in the current system of things, i.e. They'll take pay and they'll have a job document at the discretion of the board, which would have an impact on the number of people I mentioned here. Less remember, of course, from the Council of Mensaves. In terms of pay decisions made by the non-employers at the discretion of the decision board, it is especially seen that those groups who can negotiate with them will regain their rights but those who are unable to negotiate with them will have a similar remuneration arrangement that was held in Norway until 2015, which has been a remuneration arrangement since 1991. The Norwegian system is based on five basic salaries and four subtypes, as well as on temporary extra wages. The pay for a job depends on the basic labour categories and subsections used. The pay is updated each year on October 1. About 2/3 jobs in the Norwegian system classified as the basic wage category A and B. According to the Norwegian system, the decision force was divided between parties, so that the Ministry of Neon, Government and Churches confirmed the annual order of work to the basic remuneration and the update of pay for basic salaries and subclasses. The Council of improvement and rural politics then oversees the updates of pay on October 1 every year and more closely monitors the implementation of the decision-making agent. This is a brief trace to providing insight into what might be possible, for example, to determine office directors of the Management Board and how decisions would then be made in a clear way on these matters. These data are provided for detailed evaluations. Let's keep going on about this scene. It is the relevant Ministry of Education that then determines the subset of the operation. In Norway the current Ministry has been able to decide on the temporary extra pay, but it is paid for the success of the job. They are assessed annually on the basis of success and performance status, or performance assessment, and may achieve up to 30% of the basic wage in this country. Norwegians have recently made some changes in the system. It is not the relevant advisory to determine the pay of the executives longer than it is, on the other hand, the Ministry of improvement and rural management that raises the peaks and minimums of each basic labour group. These are technical updates, which I still felt were right to share with the council in my lead talk, and I'm sure they'll be taking a closer look at the committee's work on the case. It is also true that in this bill it is not suggested that this time it will take as long as it has been done in Norway, but we are in this process closer to following the Norwegian route they have made until 2015. I would also like to include only the specific work unit in my case, but according to the bill, a special work unit will be hidden on behalf of a minister to determine the number of basic labour groups, on the basis of the basic remuneration categories, and on the basis of which basic labour categories will be set, the basis for further subclasses, and the addition of pay. It is according to the concept and the bill of the associate minister who then determines, or after the events of the concerned management board, a subset of the manager and his additional salary based on the forewords set by the special unit. At the same time, in the bill it is assumed that the member of the management board of the states will be made available to monitor and sing on behalf of their comrades the opinion that may arise on the basis of categorical work and when evaluating the terms of pay paid according to a new arrangement, it is appropriate to have among the officials who do not have special service to the executives and heads of the states who are listed on the management list each year according to the 2 mgr. Twenty-two. The staff songs. The bill has chosen to suggest changes to the staff law, where a special service unit is assigned to set this on behalf of the minister. The agreement on a new remuneration system has been used to promote the proposals of a management work force, while the staff submitted a proposal on this subject and had discussed the status, working conditions, and elected management procedures; in fact, several years ago they returned to their Ministry. This has been looked forward to, as well as to two reports of Government Reconclusions on the Human Resources of the State, which appeared some years ago under the terms of the State-1, the End of State Staff, and the State Department of Human Resources-2, the Government Policy and the Manhood of the State of the State. It is safe to say that some pressures have been made to enhance the flexibility of these materials in recent years and that some are being met. I'd like to get back to the fact that the bill suggests that the managers of the Board of Directors and ambassadors will no longer be subject to the decision of the Council of Elders, as I've traced here. It is proper to also conclude that in accordance with this, it is suggested that the selection of assistant ministers take into account the elected office manager at a collective agreement. The bill suggests that the decision to make pay and employment of the head of a partner and other members of the body will be restored to the relevant administration. I think it's perfectly normal. Under government financial legislation, the activities and activities of the State are listed in Part A, B, and C. Whether or not the person will go under a new arrangement is taken into account in the bill. Part A directors and directors of Period B will be reassigned, however, the Commission of Part C will be subjected to the decision of the legislature and the management board will decide again on pay and their remuneration. The bill also suggests making a decision on the salary of the head of the European Commission to reinvigorate the Member States and is set aside to switch the laws on official financial control, but nationalisation is divided into Part C. Is this in accordance with what is suggested for the head of a partner in the majorityitution of the state? At the same time, the management board is suggested to set up a worksheet policy, allowing consideration of the 79th par. a partner-shaped. Similarly, in these areas, there is reason to remind us of the government's ownership policies in partnerships and partnerships, but it shows that the State's core policies depend on the professional and transparentness of the State's communities so that the general trust in government and its activities is established. I imagined, on the change that would result from this bill's approval, that there would be a special letter to the relevant government that the state does not accept as a result of the development of a worksheet, and at the same time it would emphasize that a competitive wage could be negotiated to ensure that these projects could be filled at any time suitable and powerful individuals. Other than that, I allow myself to refer to the mastery in general. There are many things in this context to consider. In this context, it is perfectly normal for the members to have a work policy that is compatible with government policy. I have considered that it depends on an agreement with the National Church that a change of the current order to a priest's pay decision will be made, and it will be decided on whether such agreements will be made. The bill presents a change of order for the decision of these parties, but provisional arrangements suggest that pay be made within the National Church until the agreement is reached. In other words, it is uncertain, but their conversation has been alive. Finally, I would like to mention that in some cases the lawgiver has decided in a number of cases that in some cases he or she has made a decision on the pay of certain officials as the nature of the job because of a special position toward the executive's office. The rationale for this system is that it is not desirable to perform a national remuneration programme. Thus, for the benefit of these officials, special laws have been discussed. These officials are now the district attorney and the U.S. Marshal. No change is anticipated for these officials. Finally, I want to say that at the time I have served at the council several times, these decisions have been made on the basis of a special arrangement for these matters. It may be the first time that the Council decided to intervene in the decisions of the Earth's people at the time, but by the end of 2005, decisions made by the council were made to make peace in a labour market and to set a good example. It has been a masterful process to observe how it played out, and then, in other cases, how the council wanted to intervene in the development of their later advice. In fact, in 2008, 2009 the idea was at the General Assembly to create the basis for an agreement in a labour market that was not a situation for much increase, and as a result, the highest officials and executives of state and their wages were completely reduced, with pay paid for any who were under the advice of dwindling. I remember that at that time it was held open that there could be an even further decline, that shows how pessimistic the people were during that time, as the trend in the labour market would be followed by a general decrease in pay. But that is not what happened. What happened at the labour market was that there was a slight delay in the growth of both public and general markets, followed by a somewhat inconsistency and a high pay raise. Because at the time, the U.S.A.'s Council of the Law on Refrauding to increase the pay was an enormous embezzlement between those under the bullies and those who worked in public markets or government contracts. In this context, the legal role of a dresser's body should be to ensure that those under the authority have a higher degree of humor than those in the community who have similar positions of responsibility. It is obvious, then, that there were two types of objectives of the law, one of which was the goal of setting a good example and acting calmly and perhaps a cool way in the labour market and the other the goal of having a formal right to be taken by a large group of people, and he under law could not use the right to negotiate for financial gain, had to be in force a law on how, in a transparent and objective manner, their ideals should be determined. This put a sludge in real trouble. In recent years, the advice to dissuade this situation has been taken and has been highly criticized, in the last few months. I can explain in my mind that this repeated intervention by the legislatator on these matters has convinced me that we need to have as everyone under the advice, only the ones necessary there, because it's impossible their position because their wages are determined by collective agreements. But there is something else that I feel completely convinced of, and it is that the next step is to leave the matter of discretion in its decisions. We need to learn a lesson from what we tried to do after the collapse, as understandable as it was in the circumstances it had developed. But we may have overlooked the fact that a board of fools was not about to determine anything about the pay of those under the council except those who reflected what was going on elsewhere in the labour market. I mean, it's completely failed the primary objective of the changes to have this good precedent and guidance value on how to see the outcome; that the benefits were inaccessiblely limited, and we've all so far had advice in a rather uncomfortable position. I never recall talking here in this hall, at the time of the loss of pay, that it was an independent goal to lower the benefit of those under the control of society. I don't remember ever talking about it. If that was not the intention, can men agree that the advice of a dresser is correct and be obliged to bring the terms back up according to the reference groups as they were then? I ask this because, in general discussion on this matter, it seems to be a bit deep on getting it out. The main reason I set this up is that there are these factors, this cumulative experience of seeing the failures of the council to intervene in these matters and how difficult this group is, who have moved me to present this matter with which I hope to achieve a good solidarity. The very essence of this matter is to allow those who naturally agree to do so and then decide that those who remain under the council should enjoy the silly ones decided without the interventions of the council. I wonder if the council will continue to intervene in the decision of a court of law, either a discussion of whether a dresser's advice has failed legally by determining a salary either under or by what would normally have been considered by reference groups or simply to take a full discussion of finding some other arrangement where these special decisions would not be necessary. There is also one lesson in this also that I do not doubt that a dresser's advice has often delayed making decisions in recent years, especially when the situation was the most vulnerable in Iceland, in recent years - it has certainly been delicate for a long time -- simply not to pour oil on the fire, so to speak. For example, it has led you to wonder whether these things would just have to be more self - efficient, that would just have to get close to some particular pay-count development that might be difficult to determine. But I allow myself to reflect on these thoughts. I think it means a lot to me. I think it is so important that those who do not enjoy the rights commonly accepted as a principle in these matters - in addition to being experimented with decisions for their own benefit. I'm having a bit of a problem finishing my speech by saying which of this matter should take place in the council committees. [[Pronunciation of a professional health - care committee.]] It's the case with growth that I've been given repeated indications that it was being carried in the packed stream to send another case to a financial and business committee that came to my mind. [[The president calls.]] For this reason I'm going to say: I propose, because it seems to me that it is best in accordance with the Constitution, that the case goes to that committee, but if the council considers it to be, due to a position on committees or for other reasons, it should be considered to another committee, such as Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. [[Overseement: Environmental and Transport Committee.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u88	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I'm on a financial and business committee and I think it's time to ask a few questions if the case goes to that committee. There may be three things I want to do. Minister to go. In his case and in a paper with the bill that this remuneration system is based on the Norwegian role model that is being proposed, however, it was also noted that the Norwegians had changed their system since 2015, i.e. This statens Lederlønssystem, as it is called. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if these changes have not been considered with this bill's contract and if we could be taking the risk because we are initiating a system that is considered out - of - date in Norway, or whether these changes are minor. I'd also like to ask the highest. Ministers because the Ministry has likely received responses from groups under the council. It will then be the expected members of the Senate to review the reactions of these groups. The highest. A minister or a ministerial servant will tell us whether he or she responded favorably or negatively? Then, especially, I am witnessing to groups that are likely to go into another arrangement. If the highest. A minister could only inform us of that. Then, because of the highest. A minister specifically named the president of the official partner and how to apply to the ownership of this partner, there should not be a leading pay development in these organisations. I'll take it as a matter of fact, and I'll wait for it. A minister to explain that he is concerned that this will result in the divorce rate on the prefect in view of the fact that he saw the need to reiterate it here that in the mastery would not be required. Could this change cause us to see the pay box in this particular group?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u89	Mr. President. I don't know about that, and I don't have any perspective on whether there's any danger in a pay box with partners in charge, i.e. ...but I have noticed that decisions about the salary of these people are not excluded from the criticism that has been made in the media when a decision has been made by a conquistador. Whether or to what extent they may still have some difference in their salary in the past, I am not completely aware of it, I have not taken it out specifically. The changes the Norwegian had last made on the system with these basic labour categories and this arrangement is that the decision is no longer twofold, but it is the professional minister who determines the salary of his managers and another Ministry that raises the climax each year. Thus, we view this idea as not being exactly as far as we have seen it in the bill why we have agreed to follow the arrangement that has been established for a short time in Norway. Third, the response of those affected by the bill was asked. It has to be said just as it is that they may have been a little different, but this bill was on the Ministry's website all summer. News reports were received that must probably advance to the Senate committee, but this is no doubt that some may be unsure about how their election will be determined thereafter. At the same time, however, it is reasonable to conclude that there has also been some very positive comments. Of such matters as this, just saying that it can depend on a great deal of value, it can be an assessment. [[The president calls.]] I think it's right to have the basic point of not accepting people's contracts properly unless they're absolutely necessary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u90	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers. I think it is very important that the Council of Congress considers the reviews received by the Ministry so that the General will know how this case will react. What I might especially wonder is, if all the groups that are out of the room will become reality, have a position to negotiate their terms, because I guess that's the question we must ask ourselves. This is a big change. We are saying that these groups are to go on their way to negotiate their terms, which in itself are grammatical support and natural. But I think it's normal for us to see if there are some inside the door that might be having trouble with that position. That's kind of what I'm asking the highest. Minister, whether to tell us whether there are any more severe reactions from certain groups than there are.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u91	A respectable president. As an example, I was told by emissaries who saw a tendency to make this change. I believe there's a certain issue with office managers. On the other hand, my opinion is that by extending power to the advisors, in this case between the Ministry of State and the Council of State, to all the managers, there is an increasing flexibility in the system and there is a better way to take into account that the office's job may vary depending on the size of the subject. However, this would depend on collective agreements to a degree.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u92	Mr. President. This fine speech is the highest. A financial minister gives us reason to kill a finger on three professions. First of all, if I were disturbed by the toxic sense of humor, such as. I would say that the objective of the bill was to ensure that the Minister's assistants had a higher salary than the Ministers themselves. Second, I think it's really interesting how much it is. A minister speaks of the possibility of taking priests under the advice of men. V.E.G. A minister put it this way: "If they make a deal with the Church of America on that occasion. Is it so that individual groups themselves can be determined whether they are out - of - date or under advice? Third, I ask the highest. Minister of the task force he most often mentioned, ambassador: Is it so not to take ambassadors, who represent us against other nations, who constantly have to be available, etc., under the advice of the bullies, and who will probably give them the right to strike if they are disapproving and foreign service, and therefore our dealings with other nations might be paralysed? I just want to get a clearer view of it by the highest level. Minister. V.E.G. A minister may be honest, but he is also a troublian. He attributed it here himself that the bill had received a very mixed welcome, and he honestly mentioned three groups. Tells you the highest. Will a minister be able to accept this bill in the short term remaining in the council? Of course, as mentioned earlier, the council needs to show those who carry a fine object from a table, or count it, the dignity of calling them in and giving them a chance to give them some reviews. Do we have time, so technically, to finish this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u93	Mr. President. I will begin to tell the council what to do, but I believe the matter has been very well prepared, well introduced, and the interests of those who are interested in these changes are well prepared to explain the matter. Regarding the individual groups mentioned here, assistant ministers -- no, it is not aim to improve their terms specifically or above the heads of the elected office managers. [[Up front.]] It is simply my opinion that there is no reason to take out the office manager of the Board of Directors and say: The people of this group can only attack with the decision of the Board of Elders. Why on earth? Why would you agree with this fundamental privilege to negotiate your purchase with the benefit of this group? I think at some point, people went too far in this. Actually, I'd like to say the same thing about the ambassadors. I hear the former minister is concerned as the former foreign minister that ambassadors could possibly strike, but aren't we moving the right to the ambassadors? It may be in some way that meeting some type of trade union, arrangement, preoccupies for the preparation of collective agreements may be a problem or a problem. And also for the office managers who will have to decide where they were going to set up for discussions. I think it's very soluble, like for all the other government employees. We are, for example. with the arrangement that doctors can get into a strike last year, they were closing up here operating rooms. [[Up front.]] Serious business. With the same reasoning, we should begin to narrow down the rights of many groups in the community that have important jobs, but I'm not suggesting that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u94	Mr. President. I'd like at least... not to be a foreign minister again and to conduct a foreign service with the ambassadors in a strike in the middle of a foreign dispute, just so I draw attention to it. I'm not going to talk to the highest. Secretary of finance for the Minister's assistants. I found it odd that he specifically mentioned them with their means of handling that it is quite clear that they are going to be more rewarded than the minister himself. I'd like to ask about the fourth class, that's General staff. So how are they treated? Perhaps they enjoy some special person, and they are to be under the advice of a man because they are so important, are they not? Just because it's the highest. A minister didn't say anything about it. If I remember correctly, there are now some of them under the advice of men. Then I found myself at the top of the question. Minister of the advice of fools is very important, but I'm not going to ruin his evening by taking long talks below. But I'm that way, I may not know the law well enough, but I thought the advice of a fool should take into account treaties, not necessarily groups' position. After the decrease in pay with the law, I felt that there was a ratio between the results of contracts and the position that would determine the outcome, but not necessarily as the highest. A minister says, "Don't be a certain space in between groups." [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's the part of a chicken council, if I understood a minister's right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u95	Mr. President. The bill is not making changes in the position of the members of the council. [[Up front.]] This was not considered a reason. However, in view of the general pay development in the country and the situation and the responsibilities of other groups in a situation similar to or equal to that of those under the authority, the board of elders should determine the salary. I specifically mention this because we never discussed it, or I don't remember - it would be fine if someone remembered it if it was part of the discussion at the time - simply reducing the pay to reference groups. I don't recall it being a special decision or purpose. The matter was presented at the time, so the council wanted to set a good example for the development of the work market because there was no situation in the country to see pay rise over the years after collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u96	V.E.G. President. I listened attentively to the Supreme One. Ministers deliver this bill, a large and massive bill of advice that is recommended several days before the council is to return to an evil place. What I'd like to ask in my previous answer is that I heard the highest. Secretary says that including Ministerial assistants should take into account the office manager's salary in consultations. The Cathedral decision of July 1st. is the salary of an office manager who hears under the secretary's office less than 1 million a month. In addition, office managers have 33 units. If I get it right, you pay 9,572. For each unit, that means over 315,000 bucks, so the office managers have already paid over 1.3 million. I think I'm right in mind that the office managers are thus instigated by a minister's salary, which is also members of the General Assembly. If an office manager's fee is to be a reference fee for assistant ministers, I can't help but see that assistant ministers will be paid more than the Minister himself. Are we really going that way, Mr. Honorable President? This is my first question in my previous answer. I'm not gonna take the others until later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u97	President. Now it is so that I have had no escape to the decision of an assistant's assistant during this terms and shall kindly admit that I don't know exactly what those terms are, have such a gross idea of it. It's gonna be so, according to my memory, that my assistant's salary is very close to the elected office manager as it is today. The reason why I specifically mentioned this in my speech is that if an assistant's salary is comparable to the office manager's pay as determined by a dresser today, it is important to answer how they will be determined if the employer's salary is not to depend on the results of the panel after the change. This is, in effect, a result of a future decision made by an elected office manager. I have also not studied specifically how a minister's salary is toward office managers. But I have noticed that the entire body's salary, including some of the Ministers, has remained behind in recent years. I would expect that the salary of the Generals and Ministers was the most dependent on the salary of all public employees since 2009 taking into account the changes made on the other hand by collective agreements and, on the other hand, by collections, with all increases in advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I have concluded, because the decision to make a dresser is new for the office manager, that the office managers are on a higher salary than Ministers, and if assistant ministers take account of the office managers, they are also higher than ministers. I don't think that's right. Maybe we can turn it over and say it like the highest. The minister, who is absolutely correct, said that the salaries and ministers'salary have been left to the highest extent of those who have been under advisers. But we also have our own share, a respectable president. In the short time that I have left behind, I'd like to turn to what I feel is a key element in the bill, except for some adjustments, which are being taken by ambassadors and priests. I noticed that the highest. A minister said that this was an agreement with priests. Then I ask: What happens if clergymen do not agree to compromise with the agreement made? I am a member of the National Church, and I want to make sure that priests are doing well. I'm not quite sure it's right to give them a break.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u99	Mr. President. I reiterate that there will be nothing with regard to the priesthood and bishops, the initiation bishops, and the test, except by an agreement. It's on the basis of the law on these subjects. That conversation has been alive, and let's see what happens in that regard. In terms of the financial development of one another, I have nothing to say about it. A senator to improve. All I can say is that there seems to be a measure of error in the financial development and proselytism. a song about a manipulator that is actually full of paradoxs, with a phrase being inserted in 2009: To make a decision, a advice must be made to ensure that a pay for a day's work, other than the President of Iceland, will not be higher than the fixed salary of prime minister. This sentence is my shot into 8 g. The law where, on the other hand, the decision to make a pay should be made so that it is comparable to what happens elsewhere in society. It's the setting of a dresser for all things. It's all gone wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u100	A respectable president. The Constitution of the Government for the current 145th legislation was announced that five prime returns would be submitted to the conversion of authors, No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes. Three of the elements have already been taken care of as a Congress case 333, on authors' private rights and contracts, terms 334, on orphans works, and 362, on the length of the time of recordings. The fourth bill, on the implementation of a common Commission Directive for the 2014/26/EU Regulation, will not be submitted to this Council, since the Directive has not been adopted in the EEA Convention. The fifth bill is the matter of Congress that I recommend now, i.e. change in area 11 An author's song on private copies. A respectable president. According to 1st mg. 1 1. Authorial laws allow individuals to make copies of a work of light for personal use only, provided that is not done for financial purposes. According to 3 mg. The same songs contain the authors of a piece of work being broadcast or broadcast in any form of audio or hieroglyphic recording because of their private use of strings, plates, albums, or other items, in any form that can be taken up by sound and/or images in a similar or digital way. In addition, the pay should be paid back, which is specifically intended for such a recording. This amount should be paid whether it is domestic or imported production, and the obligation to pay the fees for importers and manufacturers. Since the authors' legislation allows for the requested copymaking, the national commitment to the Icelandic government is in order to ensure that the authors and other rights of published jobs copied for private use will be affected by the damage they suffer as a result of this in accordance with the B-J 2 mgr. Section 5. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2001/29/EC on the compliance of certain aspects of the authorhood and related rights of the European Commission from 22 May 2001 adopted in the EEA Convention by the approved joint EEA Committee on 9 July 2004. For an explanation, authors, including authors, are damaged. in that they will be made of certain income because of the written copy. As a result, they sell fewer copies of their contributions and may also miss opportunities to sell further publishing and use rights for their work. In 2003, with a total of 104 million, the original currency reached its peak. K., about the same time as CD-R and DVD-R, popular copy servers for author-preserved material were popular. Since 2007, the income of the author's payment has fallen, is now below 8 billion. K. every year. The agreement in income can be attributed to the reduction in CD-R and DVD-R disk import process as a result of changes in digital DNA. Other copy servers, such as SD memory cards, USB memory keys, and strays, have accepted the role used to play easily, writeable CDs before, and some of the copying takes place in the memory of cell phones, iPads, and personal computers. However, these servers and devices do not carry a legal fee according to local regulations and regulations. 125/2001 on billing. In order to address the above problems, a team of workers was appointed to review the Regulation on the collection of author-required charges with regard to the rights of extending the currency, so that authoritre fees were also paid by any multi-use equipment that can be used for recording and copying protected audiographs and graphics, such as telephones, computers, fliers, hard drives, and the type of digital audio and video recording equipment. When proposaling a new Regulation on the collection of requirements, it was found that the Regulation alone was not sufficient but that the law had to be changed. A set of elements for such a change was presented in an open-label consultation process at the Ministry of Education and Culture, March 17, 2015. With reference to what I've traced above, it is clear that a direct responsibility rests on the Icelandic government to establish a legal arrangement that ensures fair improvements to the authors in accordance with the b-joint 2 mg. Section 5. Directive 2001/29/EC. In this matter, there are especially two ways, one way to extend the currency of the author's payment so that it reaches new digital media and equipment and, on the other, finances a monthly budget of budgets. The rights of the rights include the rights. the advantage of it being paid by users, i.e. to those who do a copy of authorly protected private work. However, sectoral equipment and equipment are to be kept out of the budget. Inadequate the loss of the currency of a author's currency price is that it results in an automatic rise in the price of digital media and equipment, as well as the use of multi-use equipment that can be used for recording. As a result of the laid-off of the author's fee, the cost of management may be increased by the tax authorities and the company of writers' unions, which are responsible for their fees. Experience also shows that the creation of a author's claim on multi-use recording media and devices may be poorly affected by users using the digital recording technique, especially for taking up their own materials and making safety copies of important data. This does not include a permanent solution, since changes in technology will more or later require review of what media and devices to carry a author's price. As further explained in the bill, Britain, Finland, Norway, and Spain have been on the way to a reasonable compensation for authors on budgets. This method suggests that there is no need to change the rules of author-based fees in line with the development of audio and imaging techniques at any given time, and the administrative cost of the union of the authors' union will be reduced, as well as that of the toll authorities'getting rid of the government of the embezzlementment of the emigrants. Also, the Office of Authorhood does not have to repay authoritarian fees and provide a subsidies from the payment of the fee. The bill, as it has recently been modified, suggests that the treasure route be chosen to provide reasonable improvements to authors. To find objective criteria for the damage of authors, the amount is suggested to improve, with a certain proportion of the annual customs price of the media and equipment to be used for composing fossilized materials for personal use. A respectable president. If the bill is legal, it will lead to the damage caused by authors'legal rights, which result from their private use of copies and will be improved and comparable to what happens in neighboring countries. As shown in the bill, a financial decision for a fair improvement will be made in connection with the annual budget preparation of a bill. In view of the specific percentage of the tax price products and equipment used for copying, it can be assumed that the spending of the state funds can increase by 234 billion. K. A year's basis. I stress that this will be done in accordance with the obligation of the Icelandic government to establish an arrangement that ensures reasonable improvements to the authors. I strongly emphasize that this is the Constitution of authors' rights, not cultural support. This fact needs to be reflected in financial resources. A respectable president. I strongly encourage a body of council members to study a comprehensive and detailed discussion of the above - mentioned topics and the basis for the bill in a report and comments on its unique regulations. After that, I suggest that the bill be after 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u101	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for recommending this case, which I know, the courts have waited for a suggestion, and waited a long time for it. But I would like to pray to the highest. A minister to explain specific things to me, in view of the fact that the bill reviews several of the judgments that have been committed by the European Court. It says that a verdict due to changes in Spain, where the court concluded that the European Directive provided a budget for the improvement system to be funded by the general budget that the cost of reasonable improvements could not be guaranteed by users of private use. However, this fine report shows that from the European Court's earlier judicial decision in a case that has been taught by EMEA, it may be advisable to be careful about the implementation of a reform system fund funded by financial contributions that will impact on the individuals who are using the authority for private use and who do not generally fall on taxpayers. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to explain to me how this is guaranteed by this bill in view of the Supreme Court. A minister informs us that this will require annual expenses from a government fund of 234 million. So, then, aren't we risking this in general on taxpayers? It's complicated, and I'm praying. A minister to explain to me how to ensure that this payment will be applied to individuals who are using the warrant for private use by this European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u102	A respectable president. It is quite clear that when the tax process is gone, people who are not using these devices for multifold the fossilized material - for example, they are just buying notes to put on personal photographs or other materials - will still get paid. In fact, there is no way to create a route, since only those who take away what they pay. But what is meant by the Spanish example, well enough. A senator points to a fund that is made, but the issue was about the writers'authors to point out that the amount in that treasure was far below what had been paid earlier. For the amount given there was no grammatical argument. Rather, it was just one - sided decision to place a relatively small amount of money, which made them feel that they had fulfilled their national rights. In the way we take up funds, but behind the decision on the amount of money, there is a grammatical rule that is legally established and legalized. If there is a desire to change that rule, it needs to go before the council. We can reflect an arrangement where a fee is laid, which I reiterate, has been placed upon everyone, and still going that way. Since the treasure route is gone and by means of the grammatical rule we set out, we will consider what reasonable improvements are meant to be made to the terrestrial seas. It is a problem to define exactly what that amount should be. The examples of the Judges do not leave any simple rule on this. Whatever it is. The senator refers to a man who says he must not lie down on others, so in the opinion of the price. For as it is evident, when a fee is laid, as it is done in many countries, as it is done. Germany and others, it affects more than just authoritarians. [[The president calls.]] That is what is meant, and this is how these judgments should be interpreted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u103	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I state that I am not opposed to finding a fair solution to a court of law. But I think it's important that we be aware if we know how to deal with some obstacles, e.g. for the decisions that have been made in Europe. Then I understand the highest. Ministers such as connecting this in the bill to the percentage of the customs guards, as suggested here, and, in fact, calculated by the equipment and tools as the highest level. A minister named here in his background - linking the budget that will be funded with this specified percentage is the correct understanding for me to the highest degree. So a minister and his Ministry consider that this does not mean that we are doing anything contrary to the European Court's judgment in Spain? This did not include the premise as I have understood it, for of course, we have had it in such a way that these charges have been laid on and applied to all those who buy the tool and device, whether they use it for copying material or not. I have not understood that it must have been the problem, but that it is important that it is not at the hands of the fund each time what it should be worth. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: With this change, i.e. that this is listed as a percentage of a tax price, does he think it will bind the hands of the financier sufficient to meet the European Court's judgment? For, of course, we have an example for us to have agreed to various markets of income that have been so decommissioned. We know it's the highest. Minister of both. And it seems, when this goes through the budget, that it is easier to do so than when the income stock is independent as such. Does a minister think that this is a fence enough to meet the European Court's judgment? Does he not worry that this will be decommissioned? Has it been groved?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u104	A respectable president. Yes, I believe this is the way it's handled properly. For the amount of money, a grammatical argument is suggested. A hundred percent of the value of the type of customs is taken, which is the basis for the amount that goes into the fund. If it changes its basis, it must go before the council and change the law so that the amount can be adjusted. As a result, the field of execution alone cannot make such changes. If the legislative authority decides to change this, as in the case of Spain, where the amount is much lower than the previously available, a court official may appeal, pointing out that either there is no principle, and therefore the argument is nonverbal and not a fair fee or that the rule used is not perfunctory. It can then be disputed in court. The key point is that the rule we look to in this bill is thus thought to be that the price given to authors in the past was, in some way, based on this method. This is a key to my opinion because the failure is simply a matter of having a list of funds as a body of Congress or executives can change after practicality with each budget. In other words: This is a possession rights reserved in a constitution that is bound to the international commitments that Iceland has had, and it is not some kind of donation made in a fund or, as I put it in my speech, a contribution to cultural affairs, but it is a privilege to be granted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u105	A respectable president. I approach this case a little more from the perspective of the user than the EEA regulations and this other interesting example of judgment. But like the highest. A minister knows, and I and others who study this matter are a huge misunderstanding as to what this means. I've read Facebook a few times today that people get upset over this matter, and it seems to be based on a misunderstanding I'm going through right after. But from now on, I think I've figured out where the misunderstanding comes from. It comes because for most people, the government's logical view is to improve the damage caused by so - called illegal replication. People may not agree, they may disagree with them, and they feel that they are unfair to them, but they understand the burden behind them. What I have felt is harder to understand, and I found it harder to understand by myself when I found out that it's over there that I've been making up for some legal decoding, i.e. for private use only. That doesn't seem to make sense to people. If you buy a CD and go back in time and slap the law on a tape and take it to the car, it's a terrible idea that you're going to buy it again. That's what people don't understand. I think it's normal. Hence, this group of languages is often considerably more surprising than people realize. It is, in my opinion, the most complex right of possession, of course, that I do not fully know the financial world. It's under the roof. When you plan to use it in another place, in your home, or in your car, do ministers make sense to buy material once and then buy it again? And if a minister thinks it's illogical, then what's the damage?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u106	A respectable president. That is the very theme of the matter. A senator comes to, i.e. That by means of this arrangement, we are making the copy legal. The problem is, when an artist or author sells one copy of his work, which, in turn, can be taken and used several times in ways that are different from that of having just one copy, the artist or the author's union is actually going to suffer financial losses. I think that's the way it is, i.e. that selling a song or a book, or whatever it is, does not mean that you have sold infinitely many copies of what you can then distribute in some way. For example, let us take a song that has been purchased and then can be distributed on an endless number of media and delivered. But by paying for and by legalizing the copy options, individuals can legally make and apply a copy in a way that is free of anxiety. That's what goes on, making the copy legally legal so that the writers can be paid, and the public can legally copy. I think it's the essence of this case. In other words, this is not a payment or a discussion of a flow supply or anything like that, it is not a discussion here. This is primarily the subject that humans have legally and can reproduce. This is it. My answer to the senator's inquiry is this: Yes, I believe it is reasonable to believe that it is reasonable to have the opportunity to reproduce or copy in this way, and I think it is wise to make it from a common fund in this way so that we all become legal, so to speak, when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u107	A respectable president. I understand the legal evidence from these ideas on ownership and authorship in connection with him. As a user, however, I still feel as surprised because I know that no one would buy the same music twice. So I don't think the damage is real. I understand the legal logic, but I think it's completely legal. I don't think they're logical about human behavior or fairness. Not at all. Just a legal side. To say that, I don't object, either, that the government fund finances money to the courts. I don't mind. We'll see how the bill talks go. But what I find strange is that these are called compensations. If it were just called payment, I'd appreciate it right away because it would be easier, first of all, to understand. And second, I think that's more about how people use art. Since we talk about copying, it seems to me that this is an extremely old - fashioned concept of the value of art. I say that as a programmer and a musician myself and the son of a musician and a moviemaker, I'm brought up in this business. If you want to view every copy as valuable because it's written somewhere, you have to wonder, if you're going to go through the technical scenes, that song goes through the memory of the computer, not pay for every time it goes through a computer. Don't pay every time it goes through your net. No. The value of such things is that you have legal access to the music itself. That's why I don't understand that if a person who buys a product uses another copy of it after he has bought it, there's no harm in it. If we buy bread, we can use it in the living room just as we can use it in the kitchen. Why is it different with music and art in general or with imagination?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u108	A respectable president. Well, legal and not legal. The point is, Iceland has accepted international commitments. The examples given in this report are clear on the fact that Iceland has a duty to establish such a system. The issue of fair compensations, the sum, and the method, i.e. whether there is a fund or whether a price is put on it. But duty is inevitable and there is. Me and what. Of course, a senator can go through the reasoning that is interesting, but it does not alter the part of the matter reflected in the international commitments of Iceland, and then the legal constitutions of property rights, etc. In terms of the concept of damage, improvements are not being made in the same sense as disability improvements or other social benefits, child support, or something like that. This is damage. A scan is formed because if such a system is not involved, a system of authors would be damaged, for without such a system we can take either music or a book or a picture or whatever it is now, and a multifold it is illegal. And again: There are a number of European Court decisions on this precise aspect of the matter. I'm pointing at something like that. The Dutch sentence on that obligation to establish such a system. This has been handled, and it is clear that the government is supposed to do this. The only statements are: Will we have a fund or a fee for all the equipment, and what is the amount? That's what counts. Other opinions are actually not present in this matter. However, I see in my mind that there may be a very interesting discussion about the nature of these things and what is meant by all of this. [[The president calls.]] It's just a legal situation. That's what drives it, and I believe the Icelandic government has a duty they have to meet.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u109	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill to correct the conversion of authors that deals with private copies. There is much to say about this subject and, in fact, something to say about what it is not. I would like to open my talk to correct immediately a misunderstanding that appears to arise as soon as the case or similar issues in the past are mentioned. The understanding of very many is that because of the so - called illegal distribution of materials, people multiply and distribute without permission and perform a so - called illegal download, they need to repair that damage to the rights. That's not what this is about. The legal principles involved are not about that either. It is difficult to explain this in human language because what is being done, both by this bill and the law's policy, is there an arrangement that is very far removed from the user, very distant from his moral sense, his reality, removed from all the thinking that ordinary people have of the exclusive rights and rights of possession, i.e. If it is not a self - author or someone who has taken such a false step. Copy the words of a CD on a private tape, say that you buy a CD with music, ten songs, or so, and you want to play it in the car, you make a copy, and you put it on tape to have it in your car and listen to it there. The idea of the arrangement discussed here is that it would involve damage to the court. For interested ones, I recommend that they look up my excellent conversation with the highest degree. Minister at the end of his speech earlier. But in short, you might say this: It's a legal thing that seems to disproportionate to normal citizens because, well, in my opinion, it's absurd. However, this is a legal requirement because we are members of an international community, we have a legal requirement for a more widely interpreted constitution so that it is the right of authors to determine when a copy of a copy is made. What is also a misunderstanding about this matter in the discussion that I have noted so far is that it is here that the collection has been extended over the years in these media, empty tape sets, empty videos, and all of this. It's being extended here to put on more things, which is not the case. The thing is the opposite: these collects are being abolished. Instead of billing every USB key, CD, etc., public tax, instead of collecting it, it's simply paid from state funds. This may not necessarily help the citizen to understand what is taking place here, but it also has what I have to do with the situation. The matter in itself is good to me. However, it is there that I have an excessive problem with, i.e. this is called injury. If this were simply called a state - strength art, or if it were paying the rights to give information, well. I would understand better from the view of the citizens. The words that I see on this bill and, actually, often in this class, I understand only legal grounds, and by no means common sense, and not according to what I experience as fair to rights. Then I'm not saying justice should not be paid. Of course they should get paid. However, the idea is that justice will be damaged by a copy of the material he has purchased legally for personal use in my opinion. I don't think that's a good idea. You buy, for example. A CD, but it's not a CD player in the car, it's a tape recorder, and instead of copying the CD to a tape, you'd have to buy a new tape. I don't think that's a good idea. But then I can think of what if you simply took the CD with you and had the CD player in your car? Is that not harmful? Is that not harmful every time the song goes through the memory of the computer? Is that not harmful every time you listen to him in the living room one day and then in the kitchen the other day? No, of course not harmed. It's not a good idea it's hurting. But, of course, we live in this legal reality and our involvement in these international standards and laws that may not have evolved by visualizing the evolution of technology or the best course of action for the long term. Actually, that's the whole reason why the party I'm part of is real, you know, Piratar. As if this case really is against me in this sense, it must still be acknowledged that here it is taking away the phenomenon that people have found very unfair. Although that feeling was based on misunderstanding, I still think it was right. People don't think it's fair that they're charged with buying empty CDs, hard CDs, USB keys, etc., for something someone else does. There are also reasonable reasons, and people have naturally been angry with the idea that they are paying for someone else's alleged sins. Now it is not the sins of others but, rather, something legal, you may copy for personal use. However, because of the misunderstanding, people are overly angry and find it hard to understand. And now I stand before the fact that I hold on to this matter with a number of cautions. So far. When most people, no, everyone I've heard talk about this so far, it's probably mistaken in a double way. Does it make sense to think that this will be an illegal distribution of something, which is not the case, and that the collection is being increased because of something that is not the case either. If you want to get rid of these collects, if you're opposed to taking this fee from these products, then you should be in favor of this matter. Anyway, that's part of it. As I say, I think the wording emphasizes the complexity of this group in the eyes of the common citizen. What it really is different from these traditional, reasonable principles that all of us are raised to. Here is to film the case with a penalties. That's what makes authoritarian complex. As we grow up as children, we learn from our parents and environment that stealing is wrong. Hurting people is wrong, lying is wrong. We grow up with it, and we develop some kind of moral code based on the social standards. Okay, okay. But when was one raised to sing a birthday song at a party of twenty people? Never. You don't get caught up in the system on which authors and authors' rights really build. This is just not involved in our experience of reasonableness in our upbringing, in our teen years, or in everything. Except in that sense when we use some product, i.e. An act of mind, without paying for it, can be understood by most people. Almost everyone can understand that. I think that's probably one of the few of the authors of these laws that can be considered to be common sense, such as by the permission of a president, to excuse the sleigh that we grow up with in our upbringing and in our dealings with other adults. But that includes almost everything. The rest of the author's right to the general user is in a legal language, which is so far removed by the user's idea of reasonableness that he misunderstands this matter so that it is just the opposite of what it really is. I think it's a little bit of a problem. I don't think it's a problem that we solve by teaching writers in school, but I think that would be a frightening waste of time for what it would be like to produce. I also know that it is not practical for us to begin revising these old ideas on the irreverent and all the legal, right - to - face consequences. But I think that if we were to invent a penance today, if we were to decide today that we were going to adopt some kind of authorship in the light of modern technology, he would be nowhere close to being like author rights as he has been through the ages. I think if we were to contribute to the present understanding of author rights into modern technology, if we were to volunteer it now, people would just be amazed. They wouldn't understand what we were talking about. They may not understand what we are talking about. Because it's so far away from the reality that the user is experiencing. There's one thing in the bill that I have a little bit of trouble with, too, except this. It's Alpha One. Adding a new question to Article 1. 1 1. The law is as follows, with the permission of the President: However, the need for a digital publication is limited to a person who has legitimate authority or access to a source that is distributed or made available by the source of its rights. Looks innocent. No doubt it's innocent. This is to explain some measure of justice, from what I hear. But I don't see exactly what this will have to do with man's future methods for enforcing authorial rights. That's what I'm always so afraid of, and us in the Piranha, how men intend to enforce the title. In the espionage age, public rights such as privacy, freedom of expression, etc. are too much of a risk to the use of methods that promote and challenge civil rights. Actually, the 59th law contains the law. a, pretty much 2. mg., an example in our opinion of how author-based adherence can be a real challenge to the information technology system. It's got this tension that made my party, Pirata. I am unclear exactly how this affects it. That's what I have to say about that for now. The second is, right here at the end of the minute, the idea of using some percentage of the tax price used by the state to pay off to the court, is rather reasonable to me. Away from this, out of the sight of the wording, from these classical ideas of permanence. The solution that I find comfortable with. The amount, some are shocked by this amount, this is now not a large amount in the context of the budget, and rather not according to the alleged damage caused by so-called illegal complexity, which Iceland's legal rights have decided, which they say around a billion a year, I understand. If I remember correctly. The actual, obvious effect of the bill I consider to be good, certainly, in view of the current arrangement that is collecting it for every device in itself. I have a problem with the case right now. I really support what it does, what it's causing, with the notice I mentioned on a-party 1. But I don't like the wording. I feel that the ideologies on which this is based are both out - of - date, complex, and confusing, and from all accounts of the user's survival of rights and duties, fairness and morals and such. We will see how my attitude toward this matter develops along with committee work. But I think it's the most interesting thing, and it says its own, I think, if it's rather simple in itself, if you read the change and what's being changed, it's not really complicated in itself. You can go over this in 15 minutes, 20 minutes, something like that, what this means all of it. However, the report is awesomely long. It's not just because it's the highest. Ministers are so diligent and explain it so well, it's a well-worked bill, it's not just that, it's also a feature of the seminary, the identifying mark of the authors' union. It's incomprehensible. There is an indistinguishable amount of material and all sorts of complex opinions that go to court here and there on things that should be simple. We should not be referring to some Supreme Court precedent as to whether any shoplifting is illegal or not. The part of morality that we grow up with in human society is simple and obvious. We can raise our children instinctively, not instinctively, but so spirited moral. When it comes to an author's right, it's more than just mentioning it. Once again, I think this is a problem that will in time be solved. God can know what it takes to do so. But then my time is over, and I look forward to continuing to discuss the matter on a committee and, of course, later discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u110	A respectable president. I felt that this was a very serious approach. A senator like him is a suspect. But it may be said that these complex realities require that solutions be in such a way, in a simple way, and actually take away. I agree with that thought. Senator. In the old days, when I was starting here as a senator, an experienced senator told me: "Never go up and ask questions unless you know the answer yourself. But I'm gonna break this rule, and now I'm just gonna ask, because I'm interested in hearing the answer. It's because of this with the damage as it is. A senator was wondering. Let's say that a couple buy one album or CD or whatever it is, let's just take it off. So the couple decide that two parties will be held that night, one at the home of the couple, and one at their home. The man throws a party at the cottage, and the woman keeps the party at their house. Both now want to play the music they have bought. Instead of going and buying another copy, they make copies, and the same evening in the same minute, the song is played in two places, making them the most fun of it. But the author or band who created the song - if this entertainment should have been held at both positions at the same time, the author would have sold one side and two copies were sold - damaged because it was possible to copy the song, take it up to the cottage, and play it at the same time as it was played in their home. There I would say that it was indeed harmed by the artist who owned the penitentiary. I'd like to hear what it's like. A senator is on approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u111	A respectable president. I think it's an example of the highest. A minister here suggests how well this way and this approach to the writer's penance resists the reality. This needs to be put in the context of a couple who are going to play the same music at the same time in order to make it logical in some way. If we were to say that the party was held two hours apart and that there was enough time between the cottage and the home to get there in half an hour, nobody would ever think that you would buy two copies. You wouldn't even do the same thing, so you'd keep both parties at the same time. You didn't even remember it. You would simply go from one to the other instead of buying a new copy. I think the couple would not buy a new copy. I think they would simply schedule the party in line with the problem. I also think that if they had the party at home first, it would be in no way a violation of the law, half an hour later taking the same CD into the cottage and playing it there. I don't think anyone would say it was harmed. [[But what about the party?]] I don't know about anyone who would think that there was some kind of damage to either this law or anyone else. I think this underscores how crazy this approach is. The other is that this is a very specific example. Long-lasting, this is the real case. Most of the time, there are people who are using the same material in their car or at home or in the living room or at work or something similar. The difference between this in nature and the defender, whether it is a CD that you take to work or the material you post on a cloud and use at work and at home, there is no one. In that case, there is no difference between the interests of the user or the rightful authority. I wonder if this will answer the question, I know it's possible to discuss this longer, but I guess my time is running out of response.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u112	A respectable president. Of course, I realize that this is a very specific example. In fact, it could get even more complicated if no one was driving at either place and it was hard to go between the CD, as is the case today at times in such parties. But the reason why I ask this is because I think it's nothing wrong, and there's a disagreement. A senator, to think so. The judges will go out on it over and over again, they've been over it, that by the fact that this technology exists, these ways of making copies, whether in a specific example like me, or just a lot of other examples that can come up -- I'm sure smart lawyers can make a long list of their case in support - there may be nothing wrong with using the word "improved" to be damaged. Hv. A senator has noted that there may be a better concept to use. I don't think so much of it. Still, I would be careful to change it in the text of the Law because of the examples available and the conclusions presented in the bill. I reiterate that I think it should be possible to achieve a good agreement on this case based on the fact that we're making the transcription legal. So all of us are acting in harmony with the law when we pick up the laws and take them up to the cottage and play them at home and what it is, i.e. That there's no right in there. But because of the questions raised regarding an illegal copy, this is not the case. These are legal copies and copies of them. The same is true of things that humans have obtained in an illegal way. Copy of such material is not being paid. There are also examples of judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u113	A respectable president. Perhaps this will end so that we will agree on this, but for a totally different reason. In itself, I agree with the highest. A minister of the fact that wording is not everything. Whether we call this improvement or payment is in itself not the main thing. According to this, it is important to me that the legislation is the most relevant thing to the creation of the user of justice. There is no disagreement that courts should be paid. I don't even agree on how this amount is determined according to the bill. I think that's a rather clever decision if anything is. But if it were presented, if it were legal, which I realize isn't necessarily the case - we'd see to it after the committee job - if it were said that this was the way the government, the government, had already decided to go to pay the rights fair price for giving out material, it would be right away to the reality that the user experienced. To repair the damage, the user says that it is being replaced by an illegal distribution that is actually wrong just as we have considered, which is the message the user receives. Laws are going to be very hard to fill with the user, and I consider that there is a problem in the group of paints. It only makes it harder to try to find complete solutions. It's harder to get the user to the table, get him to understand and accept the ideas on the table. I know people will be angry. If I don't take care of asking a lot of people into this, explain this to them, I know everybody's gonna go crazy if I vote with this bill. I know that the misunderstanding is extremely profound. I mean, it's so profound because of the use of words, because of these complex legal concepts, and because of the distance from reality that is reflected in all these international agreements by the author's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u114	Mr. President. All I want to do is go back to the way I was before in return to the highest level. Minister. These cases are quite complex. I think it's very important. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and Education will consider the examples discussed in the report. V.E.G. A minister did his best to explain these matters in the opposite direction, but I still pause in the case of the highest court. A minister correctly stated that passing the currency route, i.e. addable tools and tools, it is not necessarily possible that those who buy such tools and use them to copy their actions. That's right, all right. However, the court of Spain made it clear that it is important not to be paid by taxpayers but to those who use tools and equipment to copy, although there is no way to monitor it. I find it so hard to understand, and hope to the highest. A minister comes to counter or final address, explaining more precisely how we can work together that we are not going to put this cost on the taxpayers in general, which is the way in the bill, despite the judgment that has fallen in the European Court that the cost of paying for those who copy the established material will be certain. V.E.G. In response to this, a minister went on to say that for this one was expedient by setting in the rules set out in the bill, since this is not taken as some random donation of funds, decided by a financial committee or Ministry of finance each year, but by certain formulas which are based on a certain percentage of the taxpayers sold as I understand it so that in fact, we are setting out a formula to calculate the appropriate compensations to the rights. However, the price is not collected, so the increase in the budget for the case is 234 million a year, according to the bill. Then I ask, "How can we avoid the things that are going on in the judgment, that the expense doesn't fall on all the taxpayers?" I want to pray to the highest. Minister to explain this to us and to speak to us for a reason. A top-of-the-art Board of Education reviews it. I am very confident that there will be a solution to these issues. We know that courts have long waited for their release, but the reason why I ask about this is because this is a different route but was introduced and stated in a fine report: ▪ Type that the bill and the revised Regulation on the collection of authoritre fees were introduced into open consultations on the Ministry's website on 17 March 2015. There were reviews from the Union of Musicmakers and the Owners of Transportation, the Society of the Court of TV and film industry, and the Union of Icelandic filmmakers. Then it says: In August 2016, changes in the bill code were made that failed to reevaluate the basis for the author's payment on new digital media and recorders. Instead, improvements are now suggested in terms of damages resulting from private copies. There is another discussion that went by earlier. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Supreme Court. Minister. Ideas introduced when it was announced that the matter should be paid. The subject was addressed on e.g. In India, a tribunal where representatives of all classes stood, and all classes declared themselves ready to claim that such a price would be imposed. Since then, there has been a transition, and I would like to ask the highest question. Minister, if he is able to answer, what has been done to turn back from paying the price. Was there something in the reviews of a court official that caused it? Or was it rather a political decision not to charge such a price? This is shown in the chart on page 22. 14 That This Way, i.e. That there be no dues, but a contribution from the treasure of the state to the governor, which was set up in several countries. This is quoted in Finland, Norway, and Spain. Spain is listed there, but it has yet been passed a judgment that will likely lead to Spain's need for at least to revise their path. It would be interesting to know if there was such a thing on the other side or what the difference is on the way in Finland, Britain and Norway on the other hand, just so we can better understand these technical issues that need to be understood if we want this issue to be settled sufficiently. This calls for financial expenses of 234 million a year, but it says that such spending has not been expected in financial and financial programmes. There was a national budget, if I recall correctly, for 300 million. K. Remuneration for cultural purposes, but I thought it was the best. A minister earlier says that this should not be interpreted as a cultural contributions but as a compensation for the Constitution's rights. It'd be good if it was the highest. A minister might come to that. But that doesn't change it, and it's important for me to come up here, that this money is not expected in the budget. This estimated increase of 234 million that we're going to take from the fund and not let these consumers pay - do we have a vision of who might be in the long run? Is this something that we can see is going to stay a little jumpy from the formula suggested in the bill, or can we see that there could be some mood swings in this, an increase, or something like that? This, too, is important for us to keep in mind. This may be a detail in the large context of the State budget, but it is almost any increase in donations for cultural policy that is put into place in one year. It is important that members of Parliament be aware of this. I'm not going to extend the discussion, but I find this important question to be answered. We may not all find them in this discussion. As I'm saying, this is going to be adopted by a General and Education Committee. But because it's complicated and because we want to know what we're doing, I want to say that I don't rule out that this way can be as good as the one that was once introduced and met what we need to meet. But I think it is important that we get very good answers to the questions raised here so that we can be convinced that this route is not inferior to the one that was presented on the Ministry's web last year and that, as I quoted earlier, we have general support among the representatives of all the open meetings that have been held both by the European Union of the Artists and by the Court of the Last Year. It would also be good to have an explanation of what causes the change in course.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u115	A respectable president. First of all, a example from Spain. I want to point 'em. For more information, please contact the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses or write to the publishers of this magazine. 12 says, with permission from a respectable president: ▪ The Court pointed out that nothing in the directive in itself excluded fair compensation from financial contributions, rather than collecting compensation in the form of authoritarian bills. We're in a hurry. But then it says: On the other hand, it would eventually be individuals who made copies of protected works without premeditated sources to the rights of the rights and those who were thus due to repair the damage by financing of fair improvements. This wouldn't be for the arrangement that had been established in Spain... This is at some point the arrangement set up there. It is not generally accepted that the government fund pays the compensation. But the arrangement that was set up in Spain, and it actually stands ▪ and beyond, did not work. What the dispute was about was that the rights of authors said: The amount of money placed in the fund is not permissible, is not reasoned, and is far too low. There's a controversy. The result was the one described here. Such disputes have not occurred as I know, for example. in those places where these heaps have been adopted, which are few. I believe that by the arrangement we're putting here that has all the signs of remuneration, i.e. We define the toll classes, define the amount that would fall on it, but instead of laying down the amount of equivalents from the state fund, have come up with a moral support for the fee, and it needs to be adjusted in order to be removed from that arrangement. I therefore believe that we reflect all the characteristics of the price, but instead of the final step, to put it on, it is paid from the state's fund. It should be noted that it is not possible to satisfy the requirement that only those who copy authoritarian material, city. It's just not possible, even if people went to the currency route, because they always fell there with these devices and just had their own materials for copying. [[The president calls.]] The very thought presented here points closely to the arrangement we describe regarding Spain.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u116	Mr. President. Reason support at the highest. Minister, so I understand, for perhaps it's the highest. When I spoke up against him, a minister started the defense earlier, that although this is really not a guarantee that those who cause justice to cause harm pay for that fair compensation, the other doesn't guarantee that the other way does not. We cannot make sure that those who buy these tools are necessarily using them to copy their own material so that reasoning supports the highest degree. The minister is really this: We are not letting the right - headed ones do this, but neither were we going to do so by the other way. I see the highest. Minister nod. But it's very important, though, to get this prince on the level of this show. [[For this factor.]] V.E.G. So a minister may be able to explain from the report that it is very difficult to read something else, such as the highest. The minister himself read up earlier: ▪ The Court pointed out that nothing in the directive in itself excluded fair compensation from financial contributions rather than collecting compensations in the form of writers' dues. On the other hand, it would eventually be individuals who made copies of protected jobs without premeditated sources to the rights and those who thus justify damage that would be required to repair the damage by financing a fair improvement. What I think is the greatest. A minister may be saying, " Neither way will it be possible to fulfill what the judge says is a key. ' Then I ask, Is this possible? V.E.G. In reply, a minister said: "This has been enough for the other countries, which I mentioned because they are based on these specific predestinations. But it's very important that we be clear at the council, at least. before handling this matter. But I also remind you of earlier questions about funding and connection with a budget plan and confirmation that this is not part of the money to go to cultural level according to the same plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u117	A respectable president. I'm not going to do this any further about Spain. The important thing is that we get here on a system that reflects the currency, but instead of laying down the payment itself, it's taken from the state's budget. In other words, it is impossible to ensure what is being said here, that only those who make copies are charged with the need to know who they are. It would require a police state to do so at a very serious degree. I believe the arrangement set up here is bulletproof in this regard. It is as if a price is set in the same way, that is a law against, and then its equivalent is paid from the treasury. For the financial treatment, it is very important to recognize what I will say here. If we took the decision, which would be a very bad decision, to shut down the Education and Culture Ministry and to cancel all the financial expenses in the Icelandic state, would that not be the case, and we'd also put off the government plan, stop looking to that part of it, would it change anything about these payments? The answer is no. The State continued to be obliged to make these payments. In other words: These are not cultural contributions in the same way as for example. The contributions to the National Theater or the Symphony Or something like that are the rights to protect a constitution and international commitments committed by the Icelanders. As a result, it would be absurd to consider this to be the amount of contributions passed through the Ministry of Education and Culture, since the current budget is not that way. The financial resources collected from the fee are running into the state's budget, from there on to the authors and authors' records. The exact same arrangement must continue here. It would be a complete misunderstanding and completely mistaken methodology to consider this contribution to the Ministry of Education and Culture. It's not supposed to go through there. It is to be addressed directly to the authors, reforms, because all the examples of judgment point in that direction. [[The president calls.]] This is due to the damage to replication, and it would be absurd to treat it in the same way that we do in cultural terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u118	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is very good to find out that these contributions are not intended to be taken for cultural purposes. What I feel, however, remains the highest. The minister may not have been able to answer the questions here is why the decision was made, i.e. to drop from the currency and disappear into this arrangement. I asked earlier why it was taken. Is it because of a story from a member of the court that sent in reviews to the source of the bill? As I learned earlier, the representatives of all classes had declared support. Or was it just a political decision? V.E.G. A minister may not be able to answer that question in answer, yes, we would like to receive a talk on this fine subject. [[The point is, we want a speech.]] But it's important at least that is clear because the report does not reveal why the decision to make this fundamental change is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u119	A respectable president. I'd like to say a few words here, hoping that in the council, I'd like to be quick to try to explain and answer the questions. A senator turned to me. Before that, he moved. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, in a fine speech, argues why he was more content with this setup than with what we now have in regard to the payment. I found them to be good, and in principle, they agree with that thought. First, it is for simplicity and a measure of reconciliation with the community that this way. Second, I feel that it is better to approach this approach, and we see that we are not alone in this regard, there have been other nations that have taken up this way. Rather than closely pursuing individual toll classes, we will make the decision that is reflected today in this bill, which is, in fact, for a routine review. But there's always the foundation where it's paid from the government fund, and that's how we're simplifying it, i.e. this will be cheaper at the end of the day. There are a wide range of administrative costs that fall on the customs authorities and, in fact, on the head of the authors because it needs to be found out from reimburseds for professional copies, etc. There's a bit of a mix-up in it. That is why I think it is a simpler arrangement. When we consider these two points together, I think that by going the way we are going, reflecting in fact the currency route - but instead of paying the money ourselves, we'll pay it directly from the state's fund - it's the key here and when you look at the reviews of parties and the basic thoughts of the deposit. We use it this way, but then we don't pay the price itself. It would be quite another thing, and I would understand the reasons why people have fallen away or gone another way if we had just said, "We're going to start a fund and put in it a special amount that will always be decided on the budget. " If so, I would have had a completely different arrangement, and in fact, there would be an example that we have from Spain with much greater weight. But because we don't do it either, we're going to charge it with this bill in the bill and then we're not going to pay the bill ourselves, but we're just paying it right out of the state fund, we're going to get both of these goals, i.e. that the foundation is like the currency, that is a moral rule, but it is more likely to be accepted in the community. I have understood it so that there is no disagreement on this method and thought on the part of those who are at the head of the writers' union. I don't expect the Committee's work to comment on this because we're going that way that way, I repeat. It's just a matter of saying, instead of paying the fee, we're going to put it out of the state's budget. I think that's a good solution. It provides a number of problems, including. The Spanish way makes it. I reiterate this with the example from Spain, where the debate was that it was simply not, in the opinion of the authoritarian body, sufficient funds in the fund, and no controversial argument on the part of the Spanish government for why so little money was in the fund. If you look at the progress there, you can see that when that arrangement was taken up, the project fell down very badly. The people then made comments on this. Thus I understand the sentence as well as the lawyers that have dealt with the case with me, that it is the thought that men cannot indiscriminately determine a price, even a very low price. The example of the Judges does not explain the concept of a fair price to be exacted. They'll leave it to the countries to find it. As a result, assessment needs to be made to see who the damage can be. Then you're trying to evaluate the size, etc. But there is no one way to do so accurately. However, the fund needs to be made objectively and clearly. And that's what we've done, I believe, in this bill. That's exactly what's been pointed out here, that's complicated, and maybe quite far from the public. I can easily understand that attitude. But in the end, what I think is simple. This is the rights of the Constitution and is protected by the international commitments of Iceland. We're here to respect them. The European Examples of Judgments state that it is an unprecedented obligation for us to have such a system. Then we can choose whether to go along with the treasure route or to pay it directly. We're kind of going both ways, i.e. We define the price as we plan to contribute to it, but instead of performing the payment, we pay the price, equivalent, from the state fund. Then there's one thing left, and I stress it, and it's important that there's an understanding: this is not to be confused with other cultural contributions. That would be a absurd, complete misunderstanding on the matter and the nature of these combustions. This is not the choice of the government to support or strengthen; it is not a matter of support or strength. It is a personal right to make up for. That's the most important thing. And they will be paid if the Ministry of Education and Culture and even if there is no national financial programme, etc. That's the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u120	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the State Department's Department's Committee for Suggestion for Conclusion on the determination of the joint EEA Committee on the Change of IX. Annex to the EEA Convention. This has to do with European financial control rules. As we have seen, this is the opinion of the greater part of the State Department, but two special opinions come from the smaller parts of the Committee. The Matrix knows the matter well. The Commission has discussed the situation this time and this time and in this year and this year, and has been contacted by the Ministry of State, the Guðnusor of Kjartansdóttir, the Kristján Andri Stefánsson, Jóhanna Bryndís Unnur Bjarnadóttir and Orradóttir Ramette from the Ministry of State, the Þorleifsdóttir, Eva H. Björn's Baldursdóttir, Kjartan Gunnarsson, and Erna Hjaltested from the Ministry of Economics and Economics Department, Örn Olsenur and Páll Friðriksson from the Sément and Skúli Magnússon, District Court of Iceland. In addition, the Committee sought because there are, of course, opinions related to administrative matters, by the review of the management and monitoring committee and following the review of this committee. In fact, the committee makes that opinion theirs and the following statements. Then the committee also received a memo from the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The proposal is to consult the General Information Centre to confirm for Iceland nine proposed decisions made by the Joint EEA on the Change of IX. The Annex to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, to include 31 types and a contract for the review of a contract between EFTA and the Court on the role and authority of the EFTA Agency in the area of financial monitoring. What the controversial includes is the creation of a European financial surveillance system. The system consists of three monitoring institutions, the European System Management Board and the European Commission of the EU Member States. It is in nature and is in these words and the central point in this matter of importance, perhaps explaining how long the council has been working on it and how reversed it has been. The three institutions laid down in 2011 and have the authority they can use under specific circumstances and when it is thought that financial monitoring of Member States will fail. This authority hides even in a state of emergency control, to make binding decisions to companies in a financial market in an emergency situation, to temporarily ban or limit specific financial activities and to make binding decisions in the issues of control authorities. When these actions were first discussed by the Foreign Affairs Committee, according to Article 2. By March 2013, the Conventional Treatments of the EEA had already been large and serious comments on the power market that was thought to be disintegrating in the case as it then looked and was committed to hiding these European monitoring institutions, which Iceland would not be a party, the authority to make binding decisions. At a meeting of the committee then and during the hearing of the council, e.g. conducted by Björg Thorarensen and Stefánsson Quanthosson published in April 2012, who concluded that the introduction of the types was dependent on the limitations of the constitution and by its introduction a step further in the issue of authority than previously thought to be in force. The constitution. However, they felt that if the two support systems of the EEA contract were to be used in Iceland, it would be possible to work on the case. Then, a substantial process of negotiations, discussions, and negotiations took place on how to work with the situation. The Convention on Special Solutions for the EEA/EFTA countries was finally reached with the European Union, and this agreement has been confirmed by all agreements except Iceland. The contract is that, instead of having the European monitoring institutions authority to make binding decisions to Iceland, these are decisions to the EFTA government in the EEA and to companies that are employed by the EFTA, ESA. This is the change that was thought to be the only way to solve the subject I mentioned earlier regarding the constitution. However, EU monitoring agencies are relevant to making non-binding declarations, e.g. with references and negotiations, with respect to governments and enterprises in the EFTA countries in the EEA. However, in all cases it is expected to agree between the EU monitoring institutions and the EFTA monitoring centre. The proposed report shows that the EFTA countries in the EEA could therefore be said to acknowledge the importance of the EU's new monitoring system for the internal market and hence the homologous targets of the EEA Convention. However, the European Union and its State acknowledged that adaptation of this system that the EEA Convention must take into account the basic rules of the agreement. I mentioned before Skúli Magnússon, a local judge and a judge at the University of Iceland law, whose opinion is accompanied by his statement. He concludes that by altering authority under the existing proposal for adaptation of EU financial monitoring regulations, the EEA concluded that the EU contract would, in its entirety, change it like this and install it into a two-part system, conforming to the Icelandic Constitution. As a result of the nature of the case and the administrative issues that have already existed, it was requested to inform the management and surveillance committee on this aspect of the case. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Board of directors and surveillance committees for their jobs. Their comments, which are followed by this opinion, show how many people were involved in the project, how many people spoke to us, and how well they are concerned about all the factors we have been considering. I want to thank you for that. True, it took some time, but it was to be expected. I think it's a much better lower case and work after we received a review. But as I said before, the review comes with the opinion, which, in fact, comes into view. It should be said, and it should be said that there were differences between the opinions of the administrative and monitoring committees to determine whether or not the application will be contained within the source of Article 2. The constitution. So there were differing opinions among members of the committee as to the extent to which this was being done so that we would work within the Constitution and how far we would go. A administrative and monitoring committee specifically examined government authority to manage emergency situations if these types were introduced into Icelandic rights. The review makes it very clear, and it's tore up whether Iceland could e.g. The same measures were taken in the fall of 2008, when a specific emergency was created in our society, and naturally the commission wanted to cover well whether Iceland could respond in its financial market as well as be thought to. This was specifically examined by the Committee. The review shows that the committee believes that the legal issue is in such a way that it should not limit legal rights or courts to take care of any action within the Constitution and that it is necessary to protect the economic independence of the country during a time of danger. It's a very important point and an important discussion of why. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. The board of directors and monitoring committees insist that there is no doubt about this and that there will be no way to interpret the uptake of the types into national dishes as some kind of tribulation in legal or domestic courts in this regard. More to the oar. The National Committee agrees with these views and separation of the Commission and the Commission's Commission to state that a special declaration will be made to the joint EEA on the recording of the products, explaining Iceland's understanding that the implementation does not affect EEA rights to take fundamental decisions on economic measures to address system problems, such as the 2008 banking crisis. It's a major part of the case. It's at the end of the discussion. The Commission and the Commission, which proposes the use of specific declarations by the European Commission for the joint EEA committee. We're counting in the greater part of the problem. The State Department has the importance of this declaration and is glad to know that it has been presented in the way that it is being made here. As stated in the News Committee on State and Observation Committee reviews, there has already been a consultation with the State Department and the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Economics on the implementation of such texts and is an agreement for final expressions. In addition, it is proper to inform the United States of this world that a review on the ground is not thought to be the case. The Foreign Affairs Committee that such a statement will be protested by other parties. We are confident that we will not. A respectable president. Finally, the majority will agree with the views presented in the review of the Commission and the Commission, as well as the documents I have mentioned before, and suggest that the case be agreed as unchanged. Hv. Karl Garðarsson, Óttarr Proppé, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdóttir, who were absent from the case, signed under warrant of 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under these publications, besides those present, stands Karl Garðarsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigrion, Elín Hirst, Óttarr Proppé, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, why. Councilmen and members of the committee at noonday. State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u121	Mr. President. It's one of the most complex cases I've ever been exposed to. I believe, however, that the four opinions available from a management and surveillance committee and a foreign advisory committee give a good picture of that, and as well as how well we've studied the case. I believe the matter is studied, and I want to agree with it as well. The head of the State Department said about the good work of the administration and monitoring committee. I believe she has, in fact, proved her value with this great work. Then I'll come to the foreground. A senator who was perfectly fine. There's one thing I can find. Hv. A senator said that there was only one way to make this conflict with the constitution and that it was to take two of the effective ways that Skúli Magnússon chose. I'd like to allow myself to disagree with her on that. There's another way, it's changing the constitution. We've said many times that it's time for it to be changed and that it has entered a set of regulations that the home gives power after incidents just to the EEA or to other heads of state. That's what I want to be very clear about on my part. That's how we could have solved it. Second of all. This is the greatest exposition of power since our entry into the EEA. I'm pointing out what. According to a senator, the Norwegians feel that this is a major expeditation, and therefore they begin to use for the first time the Constitution's expeditation to accept this. We will also look at previous expositions at previous inductions. This does not make it disturbing. A senator when she sees how the Norwegians take it, that we're here to take a step further than the Constitution can stand?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u122	A respectable president. I totally agree with that with what. A senator says it's complicated. I agree with that, too. A senator may see that this is perhaps one of the biggest issues we've been working on in extending this realm of authority within our constitutions. Hv. A senator noted that this was not only one way to do so, but, of course, I was referring to working within the existing constitution. I wasn't talking about how we could have changed the constitution to adapt it to this case. Rather, it was in the solutions shown by the lawyers involved in the case that referred to how we could work it with a valid constitution. I think, too, and agree, and, of course, we've talked about it a lot at meetings. In view of this issue, the Foreign Affairs Committee says that we are close to the edge of the matter. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. We've come to the point where we're obviously thinking about it, otherwise we wouldn't have spent as much time as we really do. We have been considering the matter, as noted repeatedly. On the other hand, I have a job of the Committee and what. The management and monitoring committee will be convinced and agree with the evidence presented, and as to the evidence presented in the case of our lawyers that this is contained within the constitution and that we are there to solve the matter as well as possible. I think it's a significant victory, considering the way the situation was originally set, that we're approaching it as we do today, that we're getting it into the system we met together on, that's a lot of results. I know why. A senator's concern is clear to me, and I understand much of his concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u123	Mr. President. When we agreed on our entry into the EEA, I held speeches from that chair. At that time, we thought it would be a valent agreement, but not as profound as it has become. He's changing all the time. More exposition is being demanded constantly. This is the first time we've stepped ahead of handing only legal authority to overnational institutions. Here we are handing over power to national institutions, which, under certain circumstances, can literally stop business ventures, prohibit certain financial activities. And more importantly, there are now three other cases of foreign affairs. I think at least Two of them are waiting for the release so we can also use the same model there. So we are always going farther and farther from the gray edge of the constitution as the four government wise men who laid the foundation for this 1993 said that it was not allowed to go over. That is exactly what they said: If you find that evolution becomes otherwise, we need to revise the constitution. If we find out we cross this gray perimeter, we have an obligation to national rights to do it. Over him, I think we're saying this. In addition, there is one thing that I feel is always lacking in the treatment of these matters, that we are looking at the previous matters. Time and again, when ordering the council and the council to say, "My darlings, consider the matter, but you must also look at the rest of the cases, and you must add up the amount of money that has been handed over. It may be that point, they've been saying all these years, since we've crossed. It's not a question to me that it's at least it cannot be put in a different way than that it is being completely impregnated to the constitution with this. It would have been much cleaner and much better for us if we had changed the constitution, even though it was so narrow that it was only authorized to overnational institutions belonging to the EEA. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I would have wanted to go further as men know. But even it would remember at least Improve my sleep at night. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u124	A respectable president. I hope so. A senator keeps a good night's sleep, I think that's important to him and to all of us. I'd like to make this right, because I'm sure we've all been involved in this conversation and discussions, and we're all wondering about the constitution in that context, that we're in more of the right place. The Foreign Affairs have leaned on us to the opinions of Skúli Magnússon. There he concluded that the implementation of authority under the existing European Commission's legislation on the adaptation of financial monitoring regulations is in accordance with the European Commission Act. The same conclusion is shown in the review of why. The Commission and the Commission, which state their word, under the permission of the President: The evidence is that, after this coverage, it is now quite detailed at the Committee's Committee - ▪ The legal basis of the case is not in order not to limit the scope of the legislature or the courts to take care of all the operations that are within the Constitutions and be required to defend the economic independence of the country... That's why. The Foreign Affairs Committee and that's why we're here, why. A senator and I, don't agree we're here to step outside that frame. I can totally agree with that. Senator, I think the council is here showing how serious it is and how hard it is to work when the council is concerned that we are getting out of the box. If we had agreed to the case as it happened here in 2012, I think we would have been doing it. But based on the two solid solutions we now have, I don't think we're doing it, and I'm convinced that we're not doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u125	Mr. President. I have to admit, I'm surprised I don't have any more trouble. Congress officials are about to participate in this discussion. Of course, this is a big matter we will discuss here, which has long been discussed at the council. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the European Commission, was well aware of the situation in his speech, how it has developed in the affairs and relations of the Icelandic government and other EFTA countries with the European Union, and how it was the way of forming two solid solutions, instead of the fact that this EFTA State would be a part of the overnational institutions of the European Union, developed in the relations established by my committee in this regard to the Constitution. This does not change the fact that, in spite of the warnings made by the Icelandic government, it is permitted to use emergency rights in the event of a situation that it is considered a threat to the financial system by taking special measures. That doesn't change the fact that we're about to go on the job of handing over certain authority to overnational institutions through our cooperation in EFTA. I totally agree with what. paritaprevir The answer was the only possible solution for Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter. I would like to state that I have not been a part of the foreign committee and only attended this final meeting in which the committee was settled. Still, I felt that it was important to recognize in a special committee article that there are many things in this matter that concern me. We are recording this new financial monitoring system because of Europe's response to financial crisis. We've seen a lot of creative works from Europe here at the council, a variety of regulations, a rule I've wondered about whether it serves the real purpose it's to serve. I understand the response of the government in view of the fact that the financial crisis has already occurred since the entire financial system has been ruled out, and there is really no one who supervises the financial system. We're going to have a collapse of the financial system. But we must also ask ourselves, " Do these rules work, and do they have the effect of changing values and culture in the financial sector? ' There are more and more people who point out that we really need to consider the financial sector, whether we are exposed to the problem that appears to be indentated by an eternity of rule, or whether the matter requires deeper discussions. Then I am witnessing that during the past two decades, financial sectors have changed and have become much more involved in business in their own ranks, i.e. Financial companies with one another, not with loans, and loans to public and general enterprises. The change in financial systems has made a much greater system risk for employment and for the general public. Then we go to it - the Icelandic government, the European government, and the European government. - with the honest goal of trying to make this system hazard grow, to increase order. We can also ask ourselves, " If the discussion and culture have not changed, what is the purpose of this arrangement if we were to respect only the rules of traffic when someone was paying attention to it? ' Most of us respect the rules of traffic because our culture is printed, we are going to follow the traffic rules. We're not going to run over to red just because nobody can reach us. This is, I think, bigger and deeper discussion than we can take here. I'd like to look at something else, but the FDA's part of it. I understand the experiment here, i.e. To establish some consistent surveillance. We know that while we're part of the EEA it's an international market. To some extent, monitoring of the protocol of this market will only be possible in international cooperation. It's just the nature of the case. As I came to this point, the Icelandic government has stressed this, and it has made it possible for the Norwegian government and the Lichtenstein government to introduce it to EFTA to be a two - sided system. This solution has now been supplied both in Liechtenstein and Norway and is under pressure that this case will be closed in Iceland. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in Norway, where this case was settled on June 13, this introduction was regarded as a major expedite expeditation in the Norwegian constitution to provide authority, on the other hand, as a minor expeditation and, on the other hand, a major expedient. A major expeditation calls for an increase in the number of members of the Parliament, three fourths of the Parliament, as well as a requirement for the minimality of the members of the Parliament who attend that vote. This release called for an enormous debate in Norway, whether they would be willing to submit such authority. The proposal was adopted by 136 votes against 29 who met the requirement for greater parts, but the debate was large and not only at the Grand Parliament but also in the community because people felt very important to accept it at the table what this production meant when it came into the hands of authority. In the New World Translation, however, there is no provision for handing out authority. I have been a member of the Board of Directorates, who has worked in this terms and in the 2014 Interpretation Report of the Committee, with the permission of a president: Although such sources have been considered to some extent under the unregistered rules of the Icelandic government, increasing national cooperation, particularly cooperation in the EEA Convention in recent years, has created doubts about accurate sources, and in some cases, there have been a cause of controversy. This recommends that the rules of the administration on this subject be set aside and explained. However, it has been noted in discussions on the Constitution that representatives of the administrations objected to the fact that the committee issued a suggestion for such a law. Although this was considered a significant defect in the constitution and despite the fact that certain proselytism of the Independence Party, for example, spoke extensively of the need for such regulations, representatives of the administration parties objected to a proposal for the exposition of authority in a limited field in support of international cooperation. I think it's important to keep this up. Because while I support the general view that it's important to master the financial market, although I allow myself to point out that increasing regulations is not always the solution to the problems we face, we are involved in international cooperation through the EEA Convention. Although those who speak the most of all about national sovereignty would not want to harm the sovereignty of putting such expeditation into a constitution, I do not know whether it would be better to go with one's eyes to such international cooperation and to deny that such a ceremony is taking place. I'm not gonna say anything about it, I can't be a judge of that, I'm not a specialist in this field. But after my discussion, I think it's a thought - I'm reiterate that I didn't sit on a foreign matter committee on the matter, but I've been tracking it from the EFTA Committee where I sit and at first on the Foreign Affairs Committee -- that we'll get at least one. discuss the gray area in which we are. This is about how we conform to the current constitution. I think it's unfortunate, and would have thought that more members of the council would agree with me, that we have failed to submit to the motion of a limited expeditation in the field of international cooperation in order to avoid our going over the opinions of specialised parties every time it's arbitration of authority, as it is. For this reason, I must express a measure of doubt. I think it's a hell of a thing that we're going to finish this terms without so many of us talking about the long time coming in, mostly because some worry about the sovereignty. When we handle matters this way, I am deeply concerned about the sovereignty. Finally, I would like to say that I agree with the views clearly stated in the Commission's Committee on Commission and Observation Committees, which follow with the opinion of a greater proportion of government sources to address emergency conditions and to defend economic independence at times and the special declaration to be made by the joint EEA Commission on the recording of the types which explains that this induction does not affect the European Union's right to take the basic decision on economic measures to address the problem of the system. I think it's trying to reiterate our rights in this international cooperation. I thought it normal that we were dealing with this case as a major expeditation like the Norwegians, and we were following clear regulations in the constitution and that this discussion was not limited to the council hall as it has been, but was much more in the community. It's a big deal, Madam President, and it's all business in general discussion, as it happened in Norway. I am amazed at how little attention this matter has caught.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u126	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very interesting talk, Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. It's as if the board of directors would rather dance with the constitution on the edge and take the chance of breaking it than of entering the Constitution of laws allowing exposition, as is the case in the current case, without my putting myself in the finest shade of it. I remember a case that came up during the last term that ran a fire - control operation at airports, which is comparable to that in gray areas back then. Because I'm a member of a board of directors and I'm a member of a board of directors. Jakobsdóttir I would like to try to find out what really happened within the committee, which led to my retirement work on the Constitution. As far as I can remember, it was simply as if there were some kind of words coming from the deep exorbitant Party that all talk of creating a legal expeditation in the Constitution actually sparked a surrender to the European Union question, and somehow people would automatically enter it. Nothing is far from true. This fear is unfounded. [[Foreground on: No.]] There were no sound reasons why people would not walk that way. I want to ask you why. A member of the council to see if she can recall any such evidence of men going that way. How is it also, you may wonder, that the Independence Party will accompany the expedition that offers, for example. On the Mulla coffee menu of lawyers in the coming election?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u127	Madam President. The fourth provision of the Board of Directors was considered in the final report that I quoted earlier. This included the provision of legal authority in a limited field in support of international cooperation. Whether such a law should include a second kind of expeditation, which would be an unlimited source of authority in many areas, such as. This includes the permission of the Constitution to enter the European Union. It was a conclusion at some point that it was not right to take a step, which would require a discussion in the community whether there was a concern with walking in the European Union and taking that political discussion. On the other hand, it would be normal to look for exposés in a specific field in support of international cooperation with those to whom we are already members. What happened? asks why. Senator. The media held a national meeting, and there they agreed to completely violate all the votes of the constitution. I wasn't at that meeting, so I don't know what the argument was. I just want to say that I really care about the national sovereignty. That is why, like many others whom we have discussed at the Assembly Hall, I express my concern for this matter. I think it's important that we have that completely, rather than that here, we always have to consult a lot of experts to see if we're out of the grey zone when it comes to passing authority, except for the evidence that we've come up with and are moved sometimes, and sometimes not all of this is gathered together. I know why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson will go over it when he reviews his committee view. I don't think it would harm the sovereignty to have such a clear and specific law. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u128	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator in these matters. I care about Iceland's sovereignty, and I care about Iceland's Constitution. It's important that she be followed. It's the highest law in the state. How important it is that humans are completely on the right side of grief when it comes to association with them! That is why it would have been so natural to make such adjustments, especially after those periods, since humans have been in exactly the same discussion that we are now. In fact, it is more tragic than tears to assume that there should be no greater burden in this matter of independence when it comes to this matter, as men have now sly spoken of as having had to be settled in this area and to agree that it was an unacceptable arrangement to be adjusted. In this case, it was simply a national meeting of the Annexe Party that set the course, not just for the forwarding party, but for the entire government. And after that, they danced. Therefore, the Constitution committee, which could very easily have returned four new regulations and proposals to Iceland's Constitution, finally only three. This did not come into harmony. I am convinced, however, that it is certainly 80 constituted here at the council to complete this case so that it can be handled appropriately, such as the one on the move, where authority is committed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u129	Madam President. I just want to say that without extending this discussion to some extent, I have felt that the discussion of expeditation in a constitution was about to become a sacrifice of national sovereignty. That discussion is based on conflicting grounds. The most intimate example is our neighboring nation of Norway, who is not a member of the European Union, but the Norwegians have this clear provision in their constitution and believe that the reason to take up the real discussion, both in the United States and in the media, and in public public discussion about whether too far is going in the major expeditation that they believe has taken place in the introduction of this financial Commission, this two-found solution, while the Icelandic way is saying, "Here is really not such a problem. " In contrast, we say: In reality, we are not betraying any authority. However, the representatives of many groups speak of the need to obtain a constitution for these matters. I may have been here way too long, since 2007, but I'm beginning to feel that this lawsuit is really uncomfortable, that we always come to the conclusion that it's not too far, but between saying, "But we have to go to a constitution to explain these matters. I think this case has been associated with other issues, the sovereignty, emotional relationships that are not valid. We took a fine discussion about this at my 2015 national meeting. It was the result of a national meeting to recommend that such a law be included in a constitution, precisely from the point of view that the Constitution is important for us to speak clearly about this subject, and the Council is given clear instructions on how to handle such a difficult matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u130	Madam President. Gray zone. Hv. A senator said: "Let's talk about the gray area. I'm gonna talk about it for a minute. The expeditation of this matter gives a national agency permission to intervene in any financial activity in Iceland under certain circumstances. In this historic institution, two other countries, Norway and Liechtenstein can form more parts against Iceland. At the time, people believed that it would never happen, but we've experienced that the Director of ESA took a very strong stand against the measures that Iceland took in 2008 and we, at least, took. two ministers who were members of that government were involved in a heated dispute with that fine man at a Ministerial Conference in EFTA on account of our actions. Are we in a gray area? Consider some developments. There's gonna be an emergency. Who is it that can declare it? The Council of Ministers of the European Union. And Skúli Magnússon makes a firm point that it is only the Council of Ministers of the EU that can define an emergency. He says, with the permission of a president:...in the absence of participation or consultation in these countries. In other words, it is the EU that controls. In such a situation, an EU monitoring agency will decide that something needs to be done. A formal meeting with ESA is held for formal proposals. ESAs are then contacted by international financial monitoring, i.e. In Iceland, who takes action again. In other words, in an emergency in which things happen overnight, do you think that you can resist them? Of course not! The original right there is totally in the EU Monitoring Centre in pixis. Well, there's some expeditation if there's any expeditation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u131	Madam President. Hv. The senator was here giving the first part of his talk rather than an answer. I'd like to roll it up for a while, then. A senator mentions, the privilege of taking the initiative he is referring to. I wonder that now, obviously, I take it again that I did not sit in contact with the State Department on these matters, is the emergency agent appointed to respond. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson points in here, i.e. that if a crisis occurs, there is the book presented in the Committee of the greater sections, that there is a common understanding, as I know it, in the EU field. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: To what extent does he believe this book is, this book that has been submitted to the joint EEA Commission as the prime minister of the Icelandic government during the induction process, expected to respond. A senator rightly points out in his opponent? I'm asking why. A senator who knows this international environment better than most in this room: What difference will that emergency be and will be maintained? Maybe that's the big question we should be discussing here. The majority of the committees say that they think it's garty, so I'm going to quit, that this warning is a common understanding. I don't know that such a model was put into this by other EFTA countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u132	Madam President. I'd love to. A senator would read it to me, from a committee party of the greater part, which she feels completely in trouble, that there is a common understanding. It is true that at the meeting of the Committee, there was evidence that this was a showdown and a polish. But I believe that it is absolutely necessary that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee explain in a stronger way whether there is something available in this regard, since all this bix rests on it. That is the natural question: Does this special declaration or not? Just that the government has agreed with a administrative and administrative committee to make such a statement shows how the case was neglected and badly tore off the side of the government. In other words, it is the administrative and monitoring committee that discovers that there is a certain leak in the whole case and that is caused by it. I'm saying for my part that I think it's really important that before we finish this discussion, it's gonna be past the point. The head of the State Department, clear to the facts and clear, but the committee states that there is a mutual understanding. Because if it isn't, where are we now? That's when we're at the starting point. Isn't this to emphasize it, Madam President, in how gray we are?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u133	Mr. President. I'll just say the word with what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. This points to the fact that in the members of the greater section, which I am not going to represent, this statement is a permanence to national courts and will call to counterdeclaration if there is a material controversy about this understanding of Iceland in the international field. Furthermore, it has been reported that there has been consultations with the Ministry of Economics and State. I agree with that. A member of the Parliament that it is important to establish in some way that there is a common understanding of this emergency inhibitor in the EFTA and in the joint of the EEA committee. It would also be interesting, and now it might be presented in the following talks, to know how the minister of foreign affairs and financial ministers, who may well handle the matter on behalf of Iceland, probably mainly a foreign minister, have presented this warning to their spokesmen in EFTA and how he has been taken in view of the fact that I am not aware that other countries have placed such emergency inhibitors or have sent them away. Although I agree with the view that such an inhibitor exists, you want to know if he will think so. Will he be useful? There are some examples of the rightfulness of sovereign states to take steps in the face of economic pressures. They are being traced here in the leading party of the greater part, but this must, of course, be in a gruel. Because of what? A senator thinks that I have trusted this too much, when I referred to the greater part of the earlier, it is perhaps primarily that I think it is important that the senators are aware that we must be absolutely clear, before the matter is agreed or taken here at the council, that we feel sure that this emergency valve is working.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u134	Madam President. I think the thing that we've actually been discussing here is the key to this case. I believe a board of administrations and monitoring committees have been very successful and have, in effect, identified a certain problem on the case. She answers by requesting that the Commission agree to submit a specific declaration in which Iceland is declared to leave behind the right to take whatever measures it is considered necessary in case of an emergency. This is important. I know exactly what was said on the Foreign Affairs Committee within her four walls, but I believe the U.S.A. needs to be fully convinced that this case is being blown up. I believe it is necessary that, before this discussion is concluded, the Iceland State Minister for Foreign Affairs, according to some cases other ministers, have reviewed this case with the members of another EFTA nation. We need to know if there's anything we can do about it. I also noted the wording given in the review of the Commission and Observation Committee, which says, by permission of the President: A declaration like that of Iceland is a legal commentator for local courts and will call to counterdeclaration if there is a material disagreement about this understanding of Iceland on the international level. Of course, we need to know: Has this been checked and worked ahead to see if such a declaration is likely to be held? Do people know if material differences might arise? And if that happens, where are we? So where is it? Are we really just at the beginning, is it all ruined? That's what we need to know. I don't think it's possible to finish this without a statement made by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. If the secretary of state has not discussed this with his EFTA developers, I don't think it's possible for the council to agree with such an important matter. I agree with others who have spoken here that the matter itself is positive and goes down to a good direction. Here we are talking about dealing with the problems we saw will be in 2008 and trying to create situations that will reduce the likelihood that such a problem that ended here with the collapse of the bank will never be a problem for us again. In that respect, the matter is very positive. It involves a joint European monitoring of financial markets, of course, a positive and system risk of things that are also very positive. However, we need to know and answer the question: Did the introduction of the constitution occur? I have serious doubts about it, as I have said in reply earlier today. When the subject was first presented in 2012, it was clear that both the nature and the scope of the exuberance were a major administrative subject. Two professors at that time simply declared that their conclusion was that the power of these new institutions was not well reserved or in a narrow field. It also states in 2012 that the forwardage which involves the power of an institution to stop a business is far more advising than the expeditation we have previously seen. My conclusion about the particular exposition is that this is where we cross the line. Then, too, the one I have considered earlier in my talks today is that since 1993 we have consistently accepted all kinds of insurgents in which men are giving power but always through what experts have called, when they have infiltrated the matter into a small chamber, a small exposition. On the other hand, we are commanded by these same governmental advisers that as we discuss this and the inside of the agency's position in the Constitution, we also look at the whole case. This is literally what is said in this same opinion by the two executives in 2012. It is obvious that when we accepted our entry into the EEA in 1993, we had a specific report. It was made up of four high executives who concluded that the expeditor of entering and becoming a member of the European Economic Area does not violate the Constitution because it was well reserved and it would not be burdensome. The word was so burdensome! However, even if the individual parts of the contract were examined and tried to add together the expansive capacity of each member, it was not possible to argue that the Constitution was broken, but it was in a very gray area. As I said in the previous answer, at the time the deal was still static and did not expect it to develop very much, they did not provide all the subsequent institutions and had to set specific rules each time. However, they saw the possibility of becoming evolution that would require more exhilaration. Then these excellent experts in 1993 or in the opinion of what was written I think 1991, 1992, said that if there were any expedients in the individual part of the contract, which together led to the possibility that we might be beyond the home limit according to the Constitution then we should revise the Constitution and put in knowledge, rich authority, to do what we are doing today. Their conclusion was that if we personally felt that we had reached this point, we would have national commitments to change the constitution. I believe that before we arrived at the deliberation of the case that we now speak, there have been many reasons to argue that the combined effects of the induction we have agreed on in recent years are a great deal in the extent and nature of our being, in effect, over the gray edge on which we were permitted. I believe the Constitution is the most sacred law in the country. We're supposed to be a lot of candy with her. My talks from that chair in 1993 were largely over the constitution because they were simply not prepared at the time for them to be within their boundaries. It is true to recall that two others were highly legalized, from Dr. Alfreðsson and Þ. Guðmundsson, a professor at the University of Iceland, and both of them concluded that the contract was not included in the Constitution. What has happened since then? We've probably increased the exuberance ten times. We went a long way when we approved Schengen, but it was considered well off and thought it was a procedure that was not burdensome, and that was of great importance. I then review a very controversial change that was associated with the 2005 competitiveness laws, which brought a considerable fine to ESA, an overethnic institution. At that time, there was evidence that people would cross the line. An Icelandic government manager, Dr. Davíð Þór Björgvinsson, concluded that it was not but with an extremely peculiar interpretation that I have never really seen using since the constitution, i.e. the interpretation of the constitution should include to be sanctified by attitudes in the community at any given time. I can't agree with that. To me, the Constitution is a marked document that is to be followed by men at all times. If there is a marked change of attitude in society, it must be reflected in the task of changing the Constitution so that its members have reliable authority. To make myself clear, I believe that it is often a fair nation to share their sovereignty in large or small matters with other nations. I believe that such a power sharing can bring mutual benefits. However, it is impossible and must not go on such a expedition unless the Constitution home it. That's why I've gone so far to compromise with people who disagree with me, e.g. for the European Union that I have said that if men do not trust to agree with the constitution which includes the authority to share power with national institutions without having it defined, I would be prepared to consult such directives into a constitution where only the EEA institutions are taken. I think that's an option. At least we'd be within that fundamental law, and we'd be in it. It makes me feel that the other popes and the best and most devoted men who have been doing over the years on the Constitution in the Independence Party were sleeping only on guard. I believe there was an opportunity there for a review of the polls committee of last loss to complete the case in a way that we could at least stand here and say with confidence: We have the authority to do this. So I don't feel that we have been able to make our last losses. I think that we must also look to the conclusion of the Board of Directors and Commission as well. They've been praised by the committee. I say it again and again I believe she has done her work quite well. I also believe that the solution she felt to what might have been the most difficult of the soul's denial was very intelligent. I already have in this talk pointed to a certain flaw with that solution, but the faults lie in my lap. Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. This can be solved by stating that this solution is understood by our fellow workers in EFTA. At least then I'd be much more calm. The results of the management and monitoring committee were, in fact, this: It is believed that even those who believed that shoehorn could allow this to be contained within the Constitution said that it would still test the extreme endurance of the Constitution. Other members of the Committee felt that this did not rhyme with her and had to take the lead in changing the constitution. When you look at the authority contained in this, it's very remarkable to read the definition of the management and surveillance committee on the front. Now I must admit, Madam President, that I do not find them at the moment, but as they were defined by a commandal and surveillance committee, this included the provision of guilty authority that could lead both to day guilty and to other fines, but it also included the authority to make decisions that would be binding to monitoring institutions and, as well as to what we have discussed earlier in this discussion, this peculiar and a great authority which includes the fact that we can provide for certain circumstances that prevent business action and prevent certain activities. It is, in effect, the greatest expansive expedient. You wonder if those who agree to such a ceremony without changing the constitution might even consider going further. You just wonder whether men who think this way, and I admit that I don't do it, you might even think that it would be possible to enter the European Union without changing the constitution. There is so much human power to sell out in this way. As far as I'm concerned, this is going beyond history. In the past, guilt has primarily been involved, but this is a far greater authority than in the past. I also feel that way as we examine these dozens of cases that we've been going through in recent years and since these three cases that run in front of a foreign press committee and take them all together, I don't think there's any question that we've really grown up to the Constitution. I simply think that this is not the right way we're going here. I believe that the changes made by the European Union are in response to the events that took place in 2008, but the question we always need to answer is: Does this remain within the Constitution? My answer is, I don't think so. That's why I believe that we should take the lead in changing the constitution and create authority to go on this mission.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u135	Madam President. I listened carefully to a talk. Senator. He was sorry here for the lost opportunity of enforcing laws into the Constitution of the dissertation of authority. Now we're at the point where there's a lost chance at least in this council. We know that, me and what. Senator, there's a lot of pressure on us to finish this case. We're the last EFTA countries to take this case for release. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that one of the ways is wrong. The head of the State Department would confirm the understanding of the trial in the emergency Habitat of the Committee for State Affairs. He also mentioned, as well as in my speech, that it was important to hear from the highest. Secretary of State whether this understanding had been held in the category of foreign ministers outside EFTA in an area where it would have been held. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Does he believe that any such confirmation is sufficient for us to complete the case, believing that we feel as good as possible from it? We are facing the constitution, which I am and what I am. A senator may regret that he is not there. What does that count? A senator adequate or adequate, should we say, rather, the solution to the situation in which we are in? Is that the arrangements I've referred to in this contrast?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u136	Madam President. I count at least that when we agree with these types of issues where it is clear that a management and monitoring committee considers the only option in the situation to create a specific emergency inhibitor and to be fully equipped to accept it if it is established by the European Commission that it has been determined if that emergency inhibitor works. I find it very difficult to end this discussion without even the top point. The minister of the State, or according to the circumstances of its surrogate, state that the State Department has carried out its role and has determined, as is the usual procedure when men make such agreements, that this will not create material differences. I think it's kind of a black minimum so that people can finish this conversation without being ashamed of it taking such a matter. You must receive a declaration from the executives of the executive authority of foreign affairs. I have come to believe that this is the case that the emergency control is inert, and we need a statement about him going too far. One might reason that if the inhibitor held this case, it might be possible to argue. On the other hand, if we take the way we should do as a manager, I believe we should be the work-dancing, and look at the future of these twelve, fourteen cases from or before, we are together beyond the limits of the constitution. I think it's very important that we turn it away quickly by changing it in any way and whenever it is done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u137	Madam President. I understand that, for then. In contrast with the above, a member of the foreign committee has, of course, been confirmed on the part of the committee. Secretary of State in the Committee's work that this understanding has been called on to other eFTA foreign ministers? It would be interesting to know if that understanding has been confirmed before then. State Department. Other than that, I agree that it would be desirable, of course, that this discussion would not be completed until such a statement was at least published, which would be, in fact, the minimum to the fact that this matter can be handled by the council in good faith that it is not too far off. I'm gonna let myself say the same thing. At the same time, a senator asks if the highest. A minister hasn't already described any of these conversations in the field of EFTA countries among their foreign ministers for the Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u138	Madam President. It would be natural for this kind of discussion to be in the territory of the Republic's foreign minister to take part in such discussions. We know it's in the line of duty somewhere else, but there are still surrogates. I would have thought it would be very important for the U.S. Senate to receive a statement from the Secretary of State on which way the government of Iceland had determined this. On the one hand, diplomats speak of a meeting of the State Department on behalf of a minister saying: "Must be done with consciousness and grace of the foreign minister. So I'll just say what I said and write; the answers I thought had come to a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee within the privacy that exists there, I can't read the history of the past. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee or any other authority I can read them from the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u139	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for an excellent speech and no later committee opinion. [[Up front.]] - It's not your turn. I think this opinion of the committee would do quite well as at least A reasonable BA essay in law and the debate may be the subject of a master's essay. But I wondered. I agree that it is in a gray area, even a dark gray area, whether it is within the source of 2k. The constitution. But if we had changed the Constitution, and we agreed on the authority of the constitution, would we be less able to employ ourselves in any emergency situation, would we be more bound by the results of such institutions, and would we bind the hands of the Iceland Court rather than using the method we have here?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u140	Madam President. I think it's the stuff for another BA essay. I don't trust to answer this completely in a single expression. I think there's a lot more to take a closer look at so that I can give a second. A senator's reply would be acceptable to him and to me. [[Up front.]] However, I feel that in every situation, it would have to be done in any way that clearly makes it clear that we have resources to handle what we did in 2008. Hv. A senator remembers that it was disputed everywhere outside of Iceland, even with those who eventually turned to support them and even adopted them. But I remind you that in particular one of the other nations, the EEA/EFTA nations within the ESA, i.e. Norway, who was this one who was opposed. I've already referred to the Director of ESA. Let us not forget that in its own time, the World Assembly approved special laws on contributions to the AGS to live under the money bar to us that were very difficult conditions bound, reflecting clearly their attitude at that time. But I have to say to the man who takes me on a test that I need more time than two minutes to give an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u141	V.E.G. President. I don't think it's weird at all. A senator needs more time to answer that question. I don't trust myself to answer that question, but I still find it interesting to wonder at least To see if it would have any effect like this. [[It's a natural institution.]] Yeah. I have also wondered if that was why the power market was not included in the discussion of the Constitutional Committee. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was in. But if you get this authority in a constitution, which, of course, was very natural, I'm not talking about if there's any further expeditation in the future, you'll have to be sure that there's some kind of a warning in the constitution. This is a thought - provoking point for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u142	Now that I am old, I may not be so quick to think and have not eaten much blueberries in this fall. What I missed in those two minutes is, of course, the fact that if, I suppose that was the opposite of the questions, we would have, for example, been. being involved in the EU, or so I understood the question, would this have meant the same? But we would, of course, have had a representative within the relevant monitoring agency, which would have been able to provide both language, logic, and possibly denial, so it's in the past. In general, we have agreed that we do not submit to the authority of national institutions. I think that's at least what we agree about. We don't submit to the authority of the federal institutions unless we have a representative there. It was the natural argument for us to take power to ESA that we have a representative there. But I believe, in view of experience over the last ten years, that there may be nothing more than the more things that can develop there may ever be in Iceland's momentous affairs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u143	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his speech. There are a few things I would like to mention at this point in the discussion. First of all, I wanted to mention it because of what to say. The senator of previous decisions, which may be considered to have included government halls to the International EFTA institutions, is that the cases of such decisions are fewer than the general public talk about in public discussion. I think I can allow myself to say that such decisions on the part of the Generalis are closer to five than ten, and apart from the original EEA Convention and the Schengen Convention, there are very limited expeditations in very limited areas. Then I bear in mind the examples of the competition, second of the air traffic control, and third of the common EU emissions system. These are the examples I remember in that regard. Of course, because more subjects are often specific, we have had a number of issues. In fact, a member of his committee party, which has been in the pipes for a long time, notes that the decisions made by Generalis have not yet been made. I just wanted to set this up at this point because when it comes to expediting with the EEA deal, I've often been made more of what has been done in the past. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u144	Madam President. I am referring to these examples, all taken from a variety of the data of the State Department, a summary, and into this, of course, the entrance to the EEA and Schengen, followed by the three waiting and wοrds. A senator reviewed at least two examples of medicine and government support, where authority is delivered. I think it's worth a dozen. Perhaps we can agree that there are nine if we remove the EEA itself and Schengen. What is noteworthy about this is that in the last five years, their survival has been observed, at least in the last eight years, so that is this. But without making it a subject in my speech, I do it so that I said it somewhere in the opinion of the committee, but we had to, and I think it was. A senator was the chairman of the Committee, deeply surprised when at our meeting met with diplomats and with the representatives of one Ministry who was going to cut through the joint committee, were studying dobia of matters, and we met there together on a case that included the execution of legal rights to ESAs without any particular conversation at the council or the government, it was said that EFTA had established a rule that in the strength of the legal adjustment of 2005's competitive laws, the Ministry could self-invigorate that kind of authority without allowing anyone to know it. It's even The reason why I have always stuck on the brakes in these substances and even in the case of destabilization of administrative warnings, such as labour. A senator knows, because this case should pass through the council so that we know at least of them. That may well be the problem. A senator feels that a man is always talking about a number of cases. I haven't. But each and every one of them has a little hurt. I still feel hurt since 2005 when the change in the competitiveness Act went through a very small argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u145	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is basically in agreement with these substances. I think he's absolutely right that the examples of how in the EEA it is required of us that we contribute some part of the government to a significant increase in recent years. In the past, I have noted that there is a chance that this requirement and the pressure will continue to increase in years to come. I think this is a fact. There are some explanations, including. in the European Union founded by the Commission, which is comparable to the ESA, to its specific institutions at specific topic areas. Neither will it be overlooked, as it were. The senator reasoned that the EEA Convention has a significant change in content since the creation system was established at the time. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it's just a question of whether all the registries are still there that men thought were when we walked in the EEA together. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm saying because I'm worried about it and I agree with it. A senator says that we need to be on guard in these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u146	President wants to ask why. Senators watch out for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u147	If that's why. I think a senator will never again face such a case. I strongly doubt that a case with such universal demands on the Constitution, or an attack on the constitution, should I say, will ever be revealed. I know why. A senator has made it quite clear what this means, because it was a administrative and surveillance committee that drew together the core of the exodus, that wasn't in the Congress we were given. This was done in a more precise way in terms of this than, e.g. in the 2012 rating. But because. A senator is and should be a konserva tiger to the Constitution as I am, then he must ask at least in his own mind certain questions as he looks, for example. the fact that the Norwegian view this as a major exuberance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If they do, and demand a 3/4 vote of the 2/3th Reich, what about us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u148	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to you about this. I'm on the board of administration and surveillance committee and I've been very involved in the operation of this committee. This is a very busy and normally has taken a lot of time. It is, in effect, about to strengthen the possibility of a coordinated financial watch across countries that are generally meant to be beneficial. But this raises widespread governmental doubts when it is fully understood. These observations are found on the basis of two completely separate factors. That is, on the one hand, how Iceland's Constitution is conducted and whether the power market laid down in these types and adaptations is in line with the Constitution. And then, as to the nature of the products, what is meant by the burdensome rules or restrictions on Iceland's rights to take action that is necessary if we face a financial crisis or a serious financial crisis. I'm going to discuss what I first mention, which is the source of the constitution, later in my speech, starting with the rest, which in itself has been the largest part of the work of the Committee this summer. I have to say, I don't like the scale of the case on the part of the government in terms of the influence of these new rules on Iceland's possibility of a small country in international cooperation to take action necessary to protect the economic independence of the country. It was basically a formal feature of the case. An attempt was made to have a power agency active within two solid solutions, not to give up power to the European Union. That was the focus of the case. However, when considering the principles of the matter, it becomes evident that even if the formal power should be in the EFTA Monitoring Institute, and therefore an Iceland Member State, the European Union will have a key influence on any fundamental element of high-risk equipment, when a crisis situation is declared. It can happen, as the examples prove since the 2008 collapse, with great shame ahead. For EFTA to respond, it is necessary to speak in one voice. I think there's been a blind spot in the bottom line of the case on the part of the government, i.e. The fact that when there was a real emergency in Iceland, 2008, we never had the EFTA with us in dealing with economic problems. It is easy to set an example, since we went through that 2008, of the enormous dangers of the entire European financial system, including Iceland. We've simply seen, in the collapse and aftermation, that what happens in Iceland is similar to what happens in other European countries. It just happens different and faster because we have an independent, small currency in an open economy. When the valley gets tough in the European financial environment and the global financial environment, and those who lend money become risky and want their money back, that's when they raise interest and they want to pay back. The money is looking out of Iceland and all the other countries. They searched the same way out of Portugal, looking out of Greece and Spain. But they went through the bond market in a few years. This is where they all have to go through the currency market overnight. And it happens immediately, first during the crisis. That's why Iceland is extremely sensitive to financial crisis. And very likely when this happens - if we're in an open currency economy, it's all likely to happen again, one day it'll be difficult for international markets and risk pressure will increase - money will go from where creditors are, as in Iceland. As a young nation, we take a lot of loans. We're servers, half the population is under the age of 34. The money's going to look out. That's why it's kind of ridiculous that Iceland doesn't have a special view of how it's going to defend its position in such a situation. What we were worried about, when we started discussing this case with the Commission and Control Committee, was also the fact that when we set the emergency law in the fall of 2008, we could ignore the obligation which in itself was not open to us, with the states that wanted us to go another way because the traditional wisdom in the international financial world was not to go on the way we had to deal with the emergency law. It should be a guarantee of a bank. We didn't go that way. We let them fall, but we protect people and basic economics in Iceland. We were criticized for this, and when the World Bank Department first arrived in Iceland in 2008, it was their first estimate that this was a very difficult method. However, it did not take them many days in the country to see that this was the only possible way, and they changed their mind. But this was thought to be an all - wide war in many lands. Britain's initial forced action, recalling it, not just turning to its owners, and defending the interests of British critics. The first British Ministry Report stated that Britain was defending the interests of demanders and depositors. In English: ◯creditor and depositor Interests.◯ It was only later, when they realized how wrong that attitude was, that they tried to reverse the forced action against Iceland into that they were merely trying to ensure the benefit of their own people. All of us are likely not to know today what measures we may need to take to cope with financial setbacks the next time they happen to us. We may have to be creative and do something that is not in general recognized as a solid solution in the international financial world. Then it is important to be restricted only by the European Commission and the legal rights of the Icelandic courts. This proved helpful in our emergency. We were concerned that this was, in other words, a new contract commitment to an understanding and process that would take place, which could already be done, would have the opportunity to handle any action possible in the United States government, could bind the Icelandic government to do a little negotiation campaign to protect Icelandic interests in a future financial crisis. And the worst of all, the record of these types in Icelandic was to be interpreted in this way, from the U.S. courts, that the Council would have chosen to narrow the boundaries of the legislature to take action that would be necessary. That is why we took up the ministry whether it was normal to find a channel to make it clear. In order to ensure that, on the part of the Lawgiver, the government or the legislatator in the future, or the courts, would be absolutely certain to accept whatever Icelandic lawgiver feels the need to do, and courts feel that the Constitution of Iceland is in harmony with. And that we would not be in any way arming ourselves with some kind of power to allow us to be like that for what an Icelandic nation could do in such a situation. The premise mentioned in our review of the Commission and Control Committee will know that my information is satisfactory in this respect. And because here is a few debates about what happens tonight if our members of the European Economic Area do not approve of it, it is just that what we have been told by the government is not supposed to crowd out the government's leeways in a crisis situation, then it is not true. Then it's just gonna have to come out, and it better be clear right now, before we step in there. I reiterate it here that this kind of leader has a legal explanation effect, as we say in the review, and he, of course, also has a legal influence in that we can illustrate the warning, the declaration that Iceland gave one - sided on the application of 112. gr. to the EEA Convention, now considered part of Icelandic rights; that Iceland has a chance to take action, if there is a labour market or community imbalance in other ways because of its small size and special position. What this kind of statement does is that it will vomit them out of its customers if they have any doubts, if they make any warnings here. Then we'll see now. It is then that it does not interfere if the Icelandic government in the future and the legislator takes action, then the court will know that it was a clear divorce on the part of the Generals that when it was adopted in Icelandic correctly, it would not be interpreted to limit the legal rights to act in an emergency situation and that it was nationally recognized by the people because they had left off when this declaration was made. The issue now stands, so it is totally in the hands of the judges. Either they say that this separation is unacceptable - then we're in the best position, we haven't applied at all, and then we have time to handle it further in another way, I assume it's back in here, and we're back at the beginning - or we're not going to be made a comment to the declaration, and then it's the policy of the Lawgiver and the court to the future. Then, the other aspect of the matter is the sufficiency. Is it possible to submit this power according to a constitution? My point is that these are two completely different questions. I have come to the conclusion that the matter has been adequately prepared on the basis of this subject. Then comes the matter: Can such authority be handed over by a valid constitution? I think that we all agree on that, after the 2012 discussion, that it would not have been successful in handing over this power to the European institutions, the institutions that we are not involved in. I'm going to be dealing with an increase of tendens in the management system to look completely different in expeditation to EFTA, because we are involved in EFTA. Certainly it is better for us to be involved in EFTA and sit there at the table. But as I mentioned earlier, EFTA speaks with one voice. Is the Constitution of Iceland compatible with handing over a decision to an institution where Iceland owns one of three representatives and the Agency talks in one voice and can speak against Iceland's interests, as has so often been done? I have serious doubts about that. I remind you that when we reached the 1992 conclusion that the EEA contract could not be made, it was thought that power could be handed over to EFTA by itself. It was never considered an default. It was taken in particular, including. from this discourse of the then highest. Minister of State, that the reason for this to be acceptable would be the fact that the contribution to the EFTA Monitoring Agency was in a very limited field. It was, when the contract was made, just in the field of international competition. From this part of the talk, the illustration was taken from a soccer field. In other words, it would not be a sovereign position in which the Icelandic soccer team played on foreign ground and a foreign judge would give the Icelandic red card to an Icelandic player, and it would have an effect, in groundwork, etc. That would be because he was playing in an international arena where he would be subject to international surveillance. There was the evidence that the tool for monitoring the EFTA monitoring centre met the requirements of the Constitution, then, because it was only against companies who were on the international market in international competition. All the other cases, which have since come and are completely different, have been attributed to the activities of the companies in this country. In the context of this, it is being strongly recommended that the EFTA Agency can implement binding instructions for national monitoring authorities on how financial management should handle individual financial companies, that the foreign authorities can tell the European Commission: you are to shut down this bank or change it or do it. If there's even some way we can take action on individual financial companies here. I think everyone can see the difference between that and the illustration I took from the football field and the people who play the international field, which was the justification for the EEA Convention and the introduction to the EFTA Monitoring Institute, according to its introduction, to the Constitution. 2.g. The Constitution just doesn't allow any expeditation of this kind that is here, that the government will be released. Because that's it. The government will be the management board of EFTA and as much as we want to make us believe that we are in charge there, we have a very recent example, of how we react to financial crisis, where it was found that we were out of control of EFTA. EFTA and EFTA make decisions contrary to our will. Because the EFTA states speak in one voice, and Iceland is not in charge there. When I review these factors, my conclusion is that there is no need for excrement. There could have been a paraphrase now, agree with this, and concomitant act, after a month's election, confirm it, and establish the values of government laws in the country, and confirm this case sufficiently. It would have been easy to find some equipment to put it through now. But it seems to me that the government has decided that there should never be any expeditation laws. That, then, is a legal attitude. If this remains within the Constitution and its sanctum, then there is no need to change the constitution if we enter the European Union. That won't be necessary. It's just that it means 2. Nothing of the constitution. A general body can relinquish power to the international institutions to which we are involved. That's what we're doing here. The argument here is that it's okay because it's not what it looked like in 2012. The only difference is that it was founded that we weren't involved, now it's the institutions we're involved in. However, there are institutions that make decisions and speak in one voice. The comparison with Norway is even more evident in this matter. I could see somewhere that I don't think it's in any other instance where the Norses have used the constitution they put in order to enter the European Union. They're using it now. And here in this constitution, I thought it was not a law that allowed us to join the European Union. But it is evident that the government's will provides an example that the Lawgiver can do anything in favor. So if we enter the European Union, we do not need to change the constitution. I reiterate that I don't understand why the government didn't use this opportunity to bring government-changing changes first so well that Congress elections are only weeks away. That would have been a perfectly normal development, and the responsibility for it is the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u149	A respectable president. I walked into the council hall right away. A senator was in the middle of a talk, so I don't know if he went into what I wanted to ask him earlier in his talk. I have to say, this case is about to cause me some problems and concerns because I signed my commitment to the constitution like others. Senators. Although I want to replace it for new ones, I intend to follow the one in force at any time, that is my duty as a senator, honor, or otherwise. I'm wondering what. A senator knows that if we are involved in the EU, we are committed to institutions to a greater degree than this. Looks like it's a challenge to 2. The constitution. I can't figure out how things can get any more serious, how can you expand your ability beyond accepting laws that may violate 2. the Constitution of the court. I feel that in view of our speech, we need to ask ourselves questions. Senator: Is there any other institutions that go beyond this? Is there something else that clearly does not measure up to the requirement of 2. The constitution? Is there anything else we couldn't record? I hope the question is clear enough. Does this not clot the constitution as much as possible? Maybe that's the right way to say this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u150	A respectable president. If we look up 2. The Constitution says that the government should be Icelandic. The Council and the President will take the legal authority and the President will take the legal authority and judge the court. It has concluded that others must not exercise this authority in the land. So there's a 21. which allows the making of an agreement with a foreign country. But it has been interpreted to mean that you cannot deliver this power out of the land, which, according to Article 2. is with national authorities. It is going very far to betray this authority, to do the work, out of the land. And, of course, the power of justice too. So hanging out by saying, "We're not handing over the legislature, we're gonna do it if we walk into the European Union. Now, I'm just saying, why can you hand over authority that's under two of the three teams in pars. ... butthreeofthethree? I just think it's legal. This is where people are over the endurance permitted by the Constitution. In 1992, there was a detailed argument with the experts about why they did not violate the Constitution. The argument I traced earlier was that those who had been forced by forced labor were just those who were doing something on a global level. The idea was that they were going to the foreign field and should therefore tolerate foreign authority. Now we're moving foreign power into the country. We're saying that an institution we're not in charge will be able to make binding decisions for the national monitoring board on the actions of specific financial companies. I can't see where any international player is working inside. We're completely beyond that limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u151	A respectable president. Since we're talking about the Constitution, I think it's worth a reminder of a provision in the bill of the Board of Government that makes a law, which I think it would be extremely good to have now to settle this matter by some decent way. I don't think it's a mistake that Congress officials don't know if this thing's gonna break up on 2kr. The constitution, or not, and we're going to have the worst legal legality of all of this. Not that I really realize what happens if we don't. But then I wondered: " What if we legalize this, and this institution receives that authority? Then comes an emergency. This institution makes some binding decision. The courts are charged. Courts will conclude that this situation is contrary to Article 2. The constitution and consequently this binding decision is not binding. A crisis is in nature a crisis, perhaps comparable to 2008. But in such circumstances, you do not want to have some legal uncertainty about what needs to be done. You still want what needs to be done, and then you are illegally ordered according to a constitution afterward. The Constitution is now designed to set such boundaries. Well, maybe. A senator's history on it? What if we agree to this matter, an emergency arises, the Agency makes a binding decision, and the binding decision is placed in the Supreme Court on the basis of Article 2. The constitution. What happens then? [[Up front.]] So, what do we do?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u152	A respectable president. That is exactly the problem we face. Of course, when it comes to decisions in an emergency, it is very likely that when they finally arrive in court, they will have a powerful effect. Even a spirit of spiritism affects other financial institutions, creating a crisis in the country. It is very painful when there is uncertainty about such decisions. Of course, there is hope that if other decisions are not made in an emergency, court decisions on the value of decisions will be made. These are not all emergency measures. There are other decisions that will be made on this basis, and it is quite possible that they will be put to the test in courts. And, of course, courts have the last word. That's why I agree with what. A senator that it is not wise to be unsure of a legal situation in which economic and economic problems can arise. That's why I don't understand the government in the light of the circumstances right now, there's elections in a few weeks, why men don't simply make adjustments in the constitution. We could have agreed to this synonym but held it in a governmental notice so that our clients would know we were going to do this and give us a date to take it here behind the election. I don't understand this sleaze on the Constitution. I don't understand what reason men can then insist that the Constitution needs to be changed to join the European Union after you've been associated with it in this way. I agree with what. Senator, we've signed our commitment to the Constitution and, of course, are bound by it. I just don't see laws in the constitution allowing such expeditation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u153	V.E.G. President. There are some points about this subject that I'm about to enter before this discussion ends. Now, I'm signing a review of the administration and monitoring committees returned to the State Department in the case of the case, and I've had some progress at different levels, including while I was on the State Department. During the preparatory period, the air became available for introductions and discussions, and the right to mention, as shown in other speakers, that in itself the principle, its content, and its goals, which are being introduced into fundamental positive and to serve the purpose of reducing the risk of financial difficulties. Of course, it is important for Iceland to participate in the trend so that financial companies in this country can be linked to the trades taking place in the European Economic Areas as the most diverse way. As a result, the review of the Commission and monitoring committee is made in a specific way. Of course, what has happened to humans since the beginning is whether these decisions are compatible with a constitution. Of course, that's the big subject, the big problem in this relationship. It may be said that when 2012 saw that the model that was then introduced to us was in a way that was not in any way compatible with the European Commission when a prospective agency was expected to be handed over to the institutions of the European Union. The work continued, of course, to a large extent, on both the part of the council and on the same day as on the advice of the local Ministry and the Ministry of State, to get the case to the point that it was acceptable for us and after other EFTA countries in the EEA. A similar problem was faced by the Norwegians. We were basically united with them in the approach that somehow the solution would involve the so - called two - strengthening solution, i.e. that authority no longer moved to the institutions of the EU but to the institutions of EFTA that we should be involved. That conclusion lay basically before the fall of 2014. I remember that on the Foreign Affairs Committee, people believed that this meant a very important milestone. When the matter comes to the treatment of the council earlier this year, this is the one that wants to be seen. As reflected in the review of the management and monitoring committee, the results were by no means self-improved. They felt that there was real reason to ask whether the solution, even if based on the two - page solution, would be compatible with the constitution. The evidence is that, in this case, this package of different regulations and commands was thus an example of extenuating authority that there was a greater test of endurance than in many other cases that we have had to deal with. There's nothing to hide in the review of the administration and monitoring committee that it was a real fixture that humans wrestled with. As the review shows, there were differing opinions within the committee whether we could agree to this conclusion on the basis of the traditional rule that scholars have written about in recent years and refer to authority on a limited extent. I was one of the members of the committee who thought that it was overbearing and that the case was certainly a test of endurance, but we were within the limits allowed to exist. As noted in the discussion, other committees had a different view. I think that when it comes to the matter, you can see that the conditions that have been addressed when people wonder whether a deed is allowed, would be fine enough for the outstanding examples of excrement found in these types. It is an expeditation that is assumed to be legalistic. It's reversible. It is in specific areas. This is not a general open label on the authority of certain institutions, but is defined in specific and specific circumstances when and when it does not exist. I think that if these standards are laid on the decisions under those circumstances, we'll find that this is consistent with what we've done in similar matters before.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u154	There's nothing similar.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u155	Here it is claimed that there are other issues. It is comparable in that we have placed these measures on the releases in other cases in the same way as we do in this case and in the same way. will be discussed in a detailed way in the opinion of a local judge named Skúli Magnússon. Even if the reaction of these types is more growing and there are a number of cases that can be tested in these large packages, we can reach that conclusion, making it a administrative and monitoring committee, most of which are expedient which is permitted in the same way as we have already made decisions. If we simply use the same standards that we have done in the past in comparable cases, we will reach the same conclusion. I think the doubts that have certainly sought people in this relationship will remain simply because of questions such as difficulty. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son has been thrown down here in answer to this question, perhaps there will never be an answer for certain unless the court's verdict is in place. We have made the same decisions before. They have not been challenged to the courts. I think we're on the right side of the line, but I'm sure we're quite close. We are not in the position of being able to handle matters like this without having to go through that discussion, go through that investigation or look at things, we are not in the position that we can readily accept this. We need to break our brain over this, evaluate each case individually, to see if the decisions we are taking on these levels are based on the standards we have set for ourselves in this regard. I would like to state this because many others here have spoken with this discussion have come to a different conclusion. I say for my part that I understand their position to some extent. I think, in some cases, some people are out on a bit of ice when they say, like a whale. The last speaker, that if we agree with it this way, it'll be in harmony with 2.gro. The constitution, we may as well walk in the EU without changing the constitution. Then I think they're starting to handle things pretty freely. Of course, this is nothing like involvement in the European Union. This is in a much limited area, much more specific and more defined exposition than if we enter the European Union with all that is involved. That's what I wanted to state with this discussion. I prefer to refer to the administration and monitoring committee and to the State Department's opinion and support the conclusions it presents.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u156	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. Senator two questions. Another: What happens if we wait until the next assembly? Do people get frustrated in Brussels, or does something mecacanic about the EEA, if this case gets to wait? The reason I ask is that the time is high, and we are discussing a rather serious matter that I feel would require something more overwhelming than what it has received, with full respect for the work being done. So far, I see too many people think this isn't going to break a constitution. To me, it's just not enough. I think it's important that we be clear about our options. Is there any possibility that we will be putting this matter ahead of elections, so that a new council with a new agency can consider questions, such as: legal procedures in a constitution or changing the matter, or how it is handled? I'm not going to go further into the arguments for the exposé of the Constitution that others have mentioned here. The other question I wanted to ask. The senator is about 62 C.E. A bill that I know about. A senator has not supported so far, which is the bill of administration to a administrative law. It discusses the law. That a panel or a quarter of the General Assembly can request a legal opinion as to whether a legal bill is in harmony with the Constitution and the national commitments of the state and not to be given the bill until legal judgment is passed. It's what it is. A senator's not that it would be a good idea to have such a thing as a law - abiding thing, as is the case today? If not, how do you think so? Is it best for a senator to resolve such issues as those we have here? We've got around 2. The Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u157	V.E.G. President. When a bill based on the proposals of the so - called Government Council was discussed during the last term, I recall that I was more friendly about the law, thinking that there may be something better to do, but there are more stupid things to do on the bill than exactly that. We have an example in various lands that there are special governmental courts that can be referred to as opinions. We don't have that in our governance. The final decision on the political value of law or whether it will pass a constitution will ultimately be in the hands of courts, and only a court case testing such factors will be carried out. The premeditated approval of any institution is not possible according to our administration. I think, in certain cases, we will need to use our judgment here at the council to determine whether certain laws or decisions are compatible with a constitution and, of course, must listen to the counsel of a good man in this regard. I believe the conclusion presented here is based on such a basis. About the other question again. A senator, whom he may recall when he arrives I do not know. [[What happens if we don't do this?]] I've only been involved in this case through a board of administrations and monitoring committees recently over a year. This factor has not been discussed, i.e. The diplomatic component or international sharing, so I'm not going to answer that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u158	A respectable president. I'm really uncomfortable not knowing what will happen if we let go of this while it's a question of whether this works. The constitution. Then I'd like to ask. A senator whether he believes that the Supreme Court may well be able to judge matters of justice. par, which is the 2nd proverb 2nd paragraph. the constitution, i.e. ▪ The court has the right to judge in the first place. Take it easy. A member of the council that it is likely that the Supreme Court would find it a convenient place to determine whether they have the legal right to judge according to Article 2. or someone else? I don't even know how to put that question, but it's so weird that we're going to handle it, and it's unclear, and there's no answer to what happens if we don't. [[The president calls.]] What are we going to replace with the law? Can we send this to the Supreme Court for review or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u159	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to answer for the emotional life of the Supreme Court in this regard, but the other is that they often find themselves in the position of evaluating whether certain laws or laws will run into a constitution. And if a case came to them by these means or because these factors were tested, it would be no more problem for the Supreme Court to pronounce its sentence than in other cases. What I want to make is, of course, that there are regular members of the Generals' operation that will determine whether certain regulations or regulations are in accordance with a constitution or not. In advance, humans can argue for their conclusions. It is possible for humans to argue with or against, but it is not possible for them to establish a single standard or to draw some conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u160	Mr. President. I was amazed to hear such an understanding as that of a man. Birgir One Ármannsson's wife says that it would be okay to accept this case because it would be very similar to the other. I understood why. A senator said that what he meant was that it was based on a two - sided solution. Then I'll ask why. A member of the Parliament: Can we allow ourselves to accept anything if it is based on a two - sided solution? What is the solution to this situation? So it's certainly the formal power of the ESA, which is part of the EFTA pillars, where two nations can form more parts against Iceland. The people thought that this might not happen when we were accepting this 1993. We have experience in recent years. How should the decision be made? Yes, it is within the European Commission's decision to make. They then have a preconceived process of formal consultation with ESA. There's a decision made by the European Union to the ESA, which is just saying over the wall. ESAs then give formal instructions to the European Commission, which again implements it to a unique financial company. In an emergency, what would happen then? Would any financial agency, if there were serious serious things going on here, say no? Or would any company shoot it to court stopping? It wouldn't work. It would have been long before the decision would come. So I say what. A senator: This is not comparable to some of the matters we have been accepting. It's going a lot further. Stefán Stefánsson and Björg Thorarensen said that the opposition was all financial activity. Well, there's something other than that, for example. making decisions regarding the air safety field and one company. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This can therefore be the case with each partner in a financial market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u161	V.E.G. President. My words must not be interpreted as saying that anything can be accepted on the basis of a two - sided solution. This should be evaluated on a case by case basis. Other measures also need to be considered, including evaluating the limitations of the supply and on a set of specific areas, and other guidelines of that sort need to be considered. I have come to the conclusion for my part that I believe it is in this case. There are a number of these examples that put such tests to the test. However, I don't think that it is being given the EFTA unmistakably broad sources in this regard, I think it is being done in relatively limited areas that apply to very limited cases. It's a standard I think it's relevant to this relationship. I mentioned in my speech earlier that this evaluation does not seem to be easy for me in this case, and of course it has cost me and many others who have been seriously puzzled. This is my conclusion, but I respect it if people don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u162	I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year makes a statement about definitions if he finds out that after analysing this part, it is a distinct area under which two university professors say that it is any financial activity. Is that a specific area? No, sir, true. I have to say, now I'm kind of going to break down so I can follow up on him when he skates like that in the sky. I must say that with all due respect for this fine senator. This does not change the fact that this is what the Norwegians consider to be a major exposé, they apply the terms they actually entered the constitution because they thought they were entering the European Union, they were preparing for it. I'm asking why. A senator like me might have asked him here tonight, doesn't he have any fear about this? The Norwegians call this a great exposé, but he drinks it just like every other water out of the wells of Gurddar. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u163	V.E.G. President. I thought I had made quite clear that this had not been through my digestive system like any other water, it's taken longer, and it's had a lot more lead than that. The question is certainly reversed in this regard. This has had to be evaluated. Because of what? A senator refers to the two legal professors from 2012, remembering that the situation has changed considerably since that point. Among them are the sources that are largely explained. It is traced to Skúli Magnússon's opinion, which is much newer than it is. So I tend to reason on that rather than draw very broad conclusions from the 2012 professors'comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u164	Mr. President. Now I'm not on the State Department or the Board of Directors and Control Committee, but I've been tracking this discussion and I have to say just as it is, I feel worse and worse as it goes. The case is traced here, to the Foreign Affairs Committee, to seek the opinion of the Commission and the Commission, and to receive it, and to some extent appears to be based on it. But when it's better to check, as it is explained in the opinion of the administration and surveillance committee, and it's actually a follow-up with the committee's list of parts, I have to say exactly as it is, that I cannot quite understand that men think this is acceptable to other members of Congress, because it simply says that some members of the committees feel that the case is trying to test the intensity of the constitution and still the highest limit, but the other members of the board don't. There's not more things, just some and others. Was the committee crossed in this matter? Is it, then, thought to be based on a foreign press committee? I have to ask you what. paritaprevir The Birgir man of the Ármannsson who knows all of this well from different sides of this committee, both of them, whether or not he sits in both of them, at least One of them, and has been in the Constitution committees throughout history, including those of the above words: Does he remember that the Generals are expected to agree with a matter that is equally close in this regard? Are there any precedents why humans have been so confused about this? Who, then, is to enjoy the doubt? There may not have been any precautions in Iceland's law against the Constitution, but if this were nature, we would probably not be in doubt that it should be enjoyed. Should not the constitution be in a similar position? I'm saying exactly as it is, Mr. President, that I feel rather rather uncomfortable to sit here under this tonight, of course, there are no ministers present rather than usual. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator, e.g. Regarding this with a board of administrations and monitoring: What do those and the rest mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u165	V.E.G. President. It has been observed in the discussions here tonight that those who were sitting at the board on the board of the administrative board and monitoring committee in this case do not speak in one voice. Some members of the committee signed the headline in advance, so some of the views involved are determined. This was a review to another committee. That's why you might want to avoid setting it up into more parts and smaller parts. The conclusion was that both views were mentioned in the review, but the facts did not set out in such a way that it was formal and formal smaller things when it came to the ultimate payment of this report. In other cases that have been discussed with the EFTA Monitoring Institute, both in recent years, and then I recall as if others sitting in this hall were significantly after the change in the 2005 Contestant Act were raised in this case. You have wondered, " Is it too far in isolated cases? ' In this regard it is not new, but it is, of course, true that this is a big issue, a big deal in interest, and the opinion may be more challenging than in other cases. As shown in my answers to answers, why? Skarphéðinsson To my conclusion that this was a expansive exposé with regard to the definitions and criteria used in such cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u166	Mr. President. That, of course, is good for what happened. A senator saying he's feeling good inside himself with this, if he does it then. I don't think he's very direct or convincing when he's explaining to us that he landed on that side. But I just say again: This is one of the most vague guidance I think we have ever had before. Councilmen who did not sit on either committee or both committees. This is what we should have in our hands to try to understand more, to have not participated in the commission work, in this blundering uncertainty. Then I'd like to ask about the statement made by the Board of Directors and Control Committee that will be sent. Is it not proof of man's distress for this, that he wants to make a special statement: We will still do what we want if we need to do, even if we have delivered this power? I think it shows and proves in what kind of puzzles they were. Maybe a what? A senator in the process informed us of what has been done with this declaration. [[The president calls.]] Will it be sent or sent? [[The president calls.]] Should we accept that she has some value while we don't know if she's even been sent out of the country, what else? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u167	V.E.G. President. With regard to the declaration or the text discussed by a management committee in his case, it was clear, and I, as a matter of fact, know the outcome of the case, that the word was decided in agreement with the officials responsible for these machines on the part of the government. As far as I understood, it was assumed that it would be a formality at the time of the decision taken up by the joint EEA committee, which has not yet taken place. As for this aspect of the matter, I'm going to state nothing more than what was stated by a administrative and surveillance committee, that this was the wording of those who represent these matters on the part of the European Commission, trusted to sign and present themselves in foreign fields. This, in turn, points to the issue. þm. In the past evening, the Árni of Páll's annual son James Version show that it is of interest if this declaration on the part of the Icelandic government causes some other reaction in the community than expected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's fine that we do so before we become part of all these activities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u168	A respectable president. I'm just going to have a few words on this matter, but I think I'm going to talk about this, when more members of the council are expected to be in the audience. I understand that few people are in the hall. It's 11:30, and it's close to midnight, so I'm sorry we're having this conversation at this time, because it's a very important matter. Here we are talking about a case that may violate 2. The constitution, which I find completely unacceptable. For this reason, I would like to make it evident in a debate that there have been some suggestions to deal with such questions. One such suggestion is 62 C.E. The bill of the Board of Justice. It's about law. It's important to have something like that. If not exactly, then something else. But I don't feel that this procedure is going to work for the high Council against the EEA and for the Federal Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. Of course, that's what I'm most worried about. We have an oath to conform to the Constitution, and we are to keep it. And we're supposed to take seriously the problem that the Supreme Court tends to plan a considerable amount of space for the Lawgiver to interpret what is left of the constitutions. There's only so much to do. We need to know what our limitations are. It is very important when it comes to 2kr. The constitution. I just have to go with her a little bit, with permission: The Council and President of Iceland use legal authority together. President and other governments under the constitution of this and other laws are subject to execution. The judges will administer the legal right to the court. These are the phrases that follow that we are a republic with a political government. This is the fundamental part of the Constitution, a respectable president. We can't let ourselves treat her like this. I'll figure out the problem that's there, but we'll have to solve it, too. We must do so by discussing solutions such as, for example, the following: 62. g. the bill of a board of governance, or a procedure in a constitution. We have to. We can't afford to do this, we can't do it. Now I know I'm talking for almost an empty room so I'm not gonna have this for now. I just wanted to get this over here for a second. and will return to these points when it comes to votes. But I have to say, I am shocked by the position we are in, no matter who it is to blame.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u169	Mr. President. I want to draw attention to what's happening. A senator's view that he is just as the rest of us are faced with the same question that the Lögrétta would have been faced and that it is not only about this matter but also about the combined effects of other products that have led to the promotion of government to the overnational institutions, in addition to the extenuating authority here. It is the guide that the executives always give to the council, especially Már Stefánsson Hanssson, who I think never before before when I've been there, and I've been there when I've been out of the government for the last 25 years, without his stress that we must never subtract matters into the unique cases that are on the table each time, but I have to add its effect to other previous cases that may have led to a career. There may be a different answer and a different outcome from that one's if we consider this matter on our own. I wanted to promote that it is more complicated than merely reaching out to the only case we're discussing here. We must also consider this in the context of the others. We need to consider this in the context of how much money we sold from abroad when we walked to Schengen. It's been attacked, evaluated, predefined. What did this involve when we made the various EU contracts and entrys in their time? Of course, the matter is that the European Union has changed completely. There are many more institutions that have come to bear parts of the authority that the Commission had before. That means making decisions that are far away from the Commission, making decisions where we no longer have access. This is what makes this case so difficult and complicated, making it possible for us to say that the EEA is mobile, similar, profound. They didn't expect that to happen before. We face this question in order to overcome any doubt. [[The president calls.]] Doesn't it have to change the constitution and set up expeditors? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u170	A respectable president. There may well be better ways and more efficient than 62rd. The program is an attempt to cope with this problem. This problem is clearly continuing, such as a beard. A senator seems to point out. Whether this or more matters should be taken into account in itself is not all that matters if 62rd. would have been in the constitution for a while. I also think that she could take such opinions for granted. A senator mentioned looking at this matter, so there is no way that the law would consider it in the context of past cases and others and bigger ones and perhaps the rest of the EEA. It may well be that we need expeditors in a constitution. In any case, I'm not satisfied that we're taking in a case that's probably good materially, i.e. at least the objective, and probably the implementation of it, may well be the best of it, but it has to pass the Iceland Constitution. It's not a choice. Whether it's a law or a Supreme Court or anyone who decides it in advance, I feel it's important that there's some way that it is before the Council agrees with it according to the constitution. There is now a law on the bill for the Constitution which gives it the mercy which, for example, is the case. There's no way a client can have a problem. The members of the council, or members of the council, or whatever. So I think it's important to have it in a constitution, that there's some career to ensure the harmony between the Constitutions and the legislatures and the votes we put here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-20-154.u171	Mr. President. I'm not particularly interested in reaching out for this matter into the night - and, however, I'm late asking for an apology to use some small fraction of my speech rights here as a general member of the Allied Council of Iceland when the basics related to the Constitution are involved. I have, as I noted earlier, observed this discussion and listened to many fine discourses that have been given and felt worse under them, i.e. as it has come to crystal in the discussion really, regardless of any human position with or against the availability of authority within the framework of the Constitution, I must say exactly as it is that feelings of insecurities are growing stronger and stronger. First only about the statement I understand the meaning is to submit as soon as the EEA Committee is meeting together. Then we're taking care of the situation in absolute uncertainty as to whether it's going to be well hot, and it's on the evidence or if it's going to be spoken against. I didn't hear if there was a clear answer to what if, what if someone says something like, "This isn't going to work, we don't take it seriously, it doesn't have any meaning? So they're bringing the case back here? How does that feel? What, then, will they do? Remember, we say, "Let's just skip this statement and do it all the same"? It's obviously some effort here, which I accept, in order to make men feel a little better about this matter, at least they didn't exactly lose their emergency rights. Otherwise I must also say that I am very surprised at how it is that we should be in this position with this case now, because there is a long consequence. It has been a long time since the European Union set out to build these institutions following the 2008/2009 financial crisis, and 2012 was a product on the table that all agreed that we could by no means enter our constitution as it appeared, i.e. that the overwhelming power of the new institutions would come directly into our midst. Of course, what one especially stopped at that time was the fact that this was to have a direct bearing on the rights of lawgivers and others in the land. Then you go and build this two-founded solution, pass through the European Economic System, and think you got away with it. Nevertheless, as indicated here, this is the largest and most burdensome power deed we have ever performed in these areas. I don't think there's any doubt in it. For proof of this, the Norwegians use the regulations of their constitutions, which are applicable to a major expeditation of the land, i.e. That the Council must agree with a greater proportion of 2/3 or whatever it is now, 3/4, yes, it does. [[3/4.]] Still, they're going to try to take it. We're offered a legal explanation applied to the review of the Commission and Control Committee. What, then, is revealed to us? The committee is crossed over. Let's say this is if a board of administration and monitoring committee had reached a common conclusion that the Committee of Foreign Affairs decided to support, but it certainly isn't. Hv. Ármannsson When I asked, " What do some people and others mean? ' What ratio is that? Is the committee quite cross - cut, or are these two against seven, or is it four against five? How's that? These questions must be asked, Mr. President. Let's not be talking about this any other way. This is the scheme for members of Congress to support themselves as they begin to take sides in this regard. As has been observed among other speakers, we who have been observing this throughout the period, since 1992, 1993, have gradually realized that evolution began on a controversial basis, to be taken into account, since it was not as if it were a big deal of agreement at the General Assembly or all at one agreements that the EEA Treaty will go up according to the Constitution. Nor was it among scholars, as we know. But the reasoning of the four people was that it was well - defined and limited and all that, on that one. But time goes on and it gets added, and it gets added up, and it accumulates. I have sometimes asked and may be asked in relation to this matter, if it ever comes again: "Can anyone think that they would have come to that conclusion in 1993, if all of this expedient had been assembled in one package, that there would be a constitution? No. I think it's perfectly obvious that, given what was based on them, they would have said no at the time. Then it must be no today. Then we must be off the line and down into the crumbling cord. It's a rather unpleasant feeling. I don't understand why men didn't work on this terms to prepare for the changes in the constitution so that the necessary exposition to the institutions we are involved in, such as the EEA Convention, could be made by e.g. 3/4 more of the Council's vote is behind them. No, it's not like that, Mr. President. It is informed by a member of the Board of Directorates, a committee of the Committee, which gives the members of the committee Part I, that it ran aground on the Constitution classes itself and their representatives. They were the ones who killed it just specifically and, in fact, destroyed the entire constitution. But especially did they not want such a law to be completed. That's got to be critical. So it's a home-made problem. I don't know what to do. paritaprevir Birgir, Ármannsson of Aargians, in case of this which I cannot rule out, so read in his facial expression. So it's a domestic problem with the board to torment its members in order to take care of this case on such impure grounds. They cannot blame anybody but themselves. There hasn't been aground on the board of directors, at least. does not have a representative of green ones for that work, for we have always had it in our hands that it was one of the conditions that have brought us into our hands and that we need to deal with them. I have not understood why it was not my will to complete this task. In fact, I thought that during the last term, men had had enough discussions about this when some of the same men, and now they plan to get so excited about it, as they did, over a vast number of markets that had to do with something tight in the environment. At that time, they were going out of the roof to see how reckless this was with the constitution. But now a great deal of power and burdensome power may be handed over to citizens of the financial market as if it were nothing, that is, through an institution that we are involved in, and that has certain impact but is not necessarily up to any conclusions, can fall into smaller areas, and what has become of our denial and of other factors in that regard? The EEA Convention in this respect has become some strange channel which gradually generates expeditation that is worse than the contract itself. You see, that's how it is, because he and every kind of man that he has, we'll pay them by name, can always say no. Right? The result can be the consequences, and we may be used or even thrown out, but we can say no there. However, it is to be given national authority to foreign authorities, which in a painful way can bite national legislation, such as, without any warning or warning, without us being able to build up a few things. I think it has become quite impossible to handle these matters. As may be suggested by my case, a respectable president, I do not expect to rely on this matter, in any case, by the vote, which is very popular at this time as it is known and discussed in society if men sit by. But I will argue with them that I am fully aware that we have a serious problem with this matter. This would have dramatic consequences if we were to ruin it permanently that the EFTA or the EEA could make this possible, we fully realized it. But I feel that men used their time badly and did their homework badly. It is also informed that at the end of the State Department, they received a few days after the opinions of the split administration and monitoring committee to complete their work. This isn't very pleasant, is it, Mr. President? I don't think so.
