ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u1	There have been two letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for deadlines to give written answers to panel requests. 1574 and 1575, both from Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and from an imported agricultural facility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u2	To answer, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Minister of Internal Affairs and Social Affairs and Housing Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u3	A respectable president. Recently, the health minister published a report on policy development to reduce the harmful consequences and side effects of drug abuse to help and protect consumers and their social rights, citizens and society in general. This is a report that is the product of a synopsis proposal submitted by the Piratars in its time, among the results of the group of work that results in all common, although it is actually a government marshal book on several suggestions. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the state according to the attitude and response of this report, where proposals are addressed to the lot of the State Department of the Interior. It may be best given one, two, and three suggestions, but there are recommendations that the use of consumers does not result in the legal punishment of prison punishment. Now it is known that people don't go to jail in Iceland for their consumption, which is under police release, but not by law. The law's threatening prison punishment. That fact affects the rights of people who are certain to commit such a crime. I'd like to hear from the highest. A minister in regard to this, as well as on two motions, which are about to be taken away from the criminal record by special violations of narcotics laws. So that's how all offenses go on record right now. These are very disturbing for people who are specifically trying to get a new life after consumption, to be with them in their own careers. I'd also like to hear the highest attitude. Minister on that. More important, that only measurements in blood for substance driving but not also from urine have caused people with metabolites or substances in the urine but not in the blood to be judged for substance driving, in my opinion, indiscriminately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u4	V.E.G. President. We've been waiting some time for that report. A senator referred to it, and it's fine that it has come out. We will, of course, review the recommendations there are and face the Ministry of Internal Affairs, what it is where there may be a legal adjustment. We've been discussing this particular case before, me and the other. Senator. It's like that, of course. A senator, who is absolutely correct in saying that people do not go to jail because of their rations, however, legal requirements require that such offenses be incarcerated. In this case, I feel that this category is somewhat different in this way so that there are often people with other problems, social problems, health problems, not just the traditional criminal offenses we know. I have thought it was a good reason to look at the legislation with the view, to see if it should be adjusted to the reality in these matters. It hasn't been done yet. We've been waiting to see what is going on there to prepare further research on what should happen next. I feel lonely that because of this, we'll start working on it. Of course, it will take some time and is not at my disposal to predict how it will end. Of course, we need to consider the viewpoints that come from the State Marshal on the matter. We are kind and obligated to do so. But to me it is important to watch these glasses with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u5	A respectable president. It is impossible to agree that these glasses need to be viewed because many cases are involved, and I would say the most or almost always, of individuals who have not offended anyone and who have not done anything wrong, which is in my opinion that the person should deserve some punishment. Of course, the jury is larger than the simple claim. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she has experienced any specific reaction, e.g. From various police districts or State Marshals or the so - called system or something about corpses that do not feel good about these suggestions. I think the suggestions are so for me, I would have liked to go further, but this is the product of work that everyone gives in front of the governor's book. I'd like to ask you if it's the highest. A minister has seen some objections or strong comments against these suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u6	V.E.G. President. I have not seen any particular objection beyond what is involved in the publication of the governor's book. I think that the report would be just as expected. This was the case with a large number of people who have been familiar with these matters, including members of the health system, a drug expert, and such parties. I now believe that in the criminal defense system, there are people who are part of society who are following the discussion and development there. But I have not seen objections. I think it's one of those packs that's reason to go through. I've sometimes said that there's a time when the law of justice needs to be revised in its entirety. We constantly look at unique articles and chapters that have been built up since 1940 and that have survived well, but, of course, all good criticism and revision are tolerated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u7	Mr. President. I direct my inquiry to the highest level. Minister to act as foreign minister, as she reported to the council two days ago. Mr. President. The giant has a serious administrative subject for a case here designed to dislodge the next programs of the Generals. It is a case that is inherently positive, but it includes more expeditation in the state of state to a state - of - state institution than are some examples, even though the introduction in the EEA is included. This case does not meet the requirements set out in such cases, i.e. The hall is not well reserved, is not in a narrow field, and is extremely burdensome. It even gives. a secular institution has the right to intervene in any financial activity and under special circumstances in order to stop the operation of such a company overnight. This is far more expedient than we've ever seen before. I feel that way, and I've given clear evidence that this is not within the source of Article 2. The constitution. All those who participated in the discussion on this matter, which was long and objective, were of the same opinion, apart from one. One down. A member of the Independence Party, Brassur Níelsson's son, said that it was in an answer - gray area, which, as one knows, is the nearest town in Black. Now there is a new situation. Now, one of the country's leading executive managers, Professor Björg Thorarensen, has stepped forward and issued a double declaration that it agrees with our attitude and that it does not seem to fit in the constitution. My question to the highest. The minister is this: What harm is done if we postpone the case and the State Department, the administrative committee and the surveillance committee consider it until next week? Do I not agree that it would be a cautious arrangement on the part of the executive and the government against the Constitution that we have sworn to fulfill? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer for the inquiry. As a successful minister of foreign affairs, I have had a conversation with the minister of foreign affairs on this very matter. According to the information I have received from her, and also on the basis of the discussion that has been conducted here and what has been presented in the council and, of course, the one presented and supported by the parties, we believe that this remains within the records we have. What harm is there, as it were. A senator asks about, and if it should be delayed until next week, it has been emphasized that this is part of the important cooperation we have on which the EEA treaties are based. It's the position of the minister who's given the case, that this beds within their records. They've worked hard and handled it. On the other hand, there is another discussion that we will discuss at the council that focuses on what we want to do about the constitution. There are already three suggestions for making adjustments, and it will be interesting to see how the council will handle them and whether there are even more changes in the constitution to take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u9	Mr. President. It's possible that the highest. Ministers have not listened well enough to my case. What I'm stressing is that there's a completely new situation in this case. What has happened is that one of the two scholars who suggested a way that was developed on the part of the government is now showing that this export is not sufficient. She doubles out in the media yesterday that this does not fit in the constitution. I'm going to the top. Minister to come here and say it's okay to get back on with the case and thus add a blessing to the execution of the execution of filthy shoes over the constitution? Ain't got the highest. Minister swear to the Constitution? V.E.G. A minister could not inform us of any harm resulting from holding this case until the weekend to confirm or refute the state state state affairs and the events of the administration and observation committee. I don't think that we're going to accept such a thing when there's a doubt about it, and when one of the country's biggest scholars on the Constitution says it's being violated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u10	A respectable president. As I said in my reply, I listened and understood that this matter is controversial. However, it has been thought, and it has no doubt been very well considered by the State Department and the Ministry of State and the Ministry of State that this would remain within the documents we have. This was the prerequisite for the minister's giving of this matter, and the Foreign Affairs Committee will arrange it. In fact, I can't add anything to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you a question to the highest level. Minister of the state of the roads in the country. The cover of the morning newspaper, with the permission of the president, you can see the headline: ▪ The road system was ready to collapse. The report says: ▪ Some of the world's largest tourist attractions are frightening. That's Ólafur K's assessmentKr. Guðmundssonar, Director of the EuroRAP, Iceland He thinks the road system is in a parasympathetic area. I'd like to hear from the highest. Ministers on the projects that have been carried out during the elected period of inadequacies, and whether they consider it to be very challenging to see that the mass of transport authorities in this country did not have anything to do with the tremendous flow of tourism, and the pressures and safety of driving through bad roads and alone bridges that have proved to be the case. The tourist sector is reporting some 70 billion dollars in the state box, it was published in the news at the Board of Tourist Services, Helga Árnadóttir, and the state is returning zero in all infrastructure. In the country, about 39 bridges on the ring road are thought to take about 18 years, although more parts of the transport network were proposed to increase their resources, to bring it down, and to prevent single bridges from being found in the road system. Is this acceptable? Does not a minister think that there is a big challenge to the road when it is not bad? [[The president calls.]] Is the only solution a minister has to make in on increased personal projects?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u12	V.E.G. President. It didn't happen yesterday that there was a need to put money on the road system. It's a big persistent task that Iceland and I are supposed to have a year from year to year, and it's not going to be solved in a single moment like a whale. A senator well knows. You're absolutely right. In fact, a senator's pressures on the road system in this country have been tremendous and have increased. That is especially why we have been putting more money on roads. It is not true that goes by the dog. A senator, that nothing was done during this terms. We put 1,800 million particularly in the road system because of the growth of tourists. A senator probably remembers well. More important, they took money for maintenance, as well as money to individual tourist attractions. In the next two years, more than 11 billion are being added according to a transport program, a majority of the laws under the government, to the road. There is also a substantial sum of money for single bridges, which, of course, are a huge task for us to deal with and, in fact, have been on the agenda for years and decades to decline. Hv. A senator also knows how well that assignment has taken time. They are under attack. Some of these monotonous bridges are leaving when a cut - off road occurs, and change becomes the same as it takes place in the Hornfjord, where it is proposed to move the road to the Hornground and dispose of large monotonous bridges there. It's not right. A senator that I'm focusing on his own business. However, I have been pointing out that as the government needs to increase money on road issues, which are now much better at doing because of the state's status, it is probably also possible to look to other ways when individual projects are being looked at. It is simply wise to do so. It does not release its responsibility, for no one has ever said that it exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u13	Mr. President. The actions show the signs. During the three years that will take place, both maintenance and innovation, there is little more to it than in the years following the collapse. Invested by tourists, there are no small sums of 70 billion, and they aim for tourists to increase to 2.4 million next year. They're about 1.7 million this year. Will the Kingdom just keep on returning riches? This will take some 10 billion increases a year if the road system is under intense stress. Then I'm not just talking about pressure on tourists, I'm talking in general about the people of the country and businesses. It is a great offense for the government not to have stood up in this suit. I have no doubt that the highest. A minister would have liked to have done better, but the fund has held hands. This is a disgrace, and more and more, from this sector, from officials and leaders of the organization, are now taking their stand and giving the government a dropback in this category. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u14	V.E.G. President. I don't know if you can ask me to do that for why. A senator that she listens to what is said unless she is not interested in hearing what you have to say on this particular subject. Then, naturally, she can only talk as she likes, but I'm still presenting some information that really matters in the discussion, e.g. that we are now adding 11 billion to the road. I would've thought what. A senator knew that the state funds status did not work out in one day. [[Up front.]] There's something that's been working on all this terms, and we'll see, fortunately, a much better position. It'll give us a chance to move on. It's what it is. A senator saying that this has only happened on his own? Then it is also appropriate to point to the increase in the number of tourists that Iceland and I welcome, we rejoice that we have received this rich branch to this country, do we not all know that it has grown much faster than anyone expected? Not unless what. A senator was so prophetic that he realized three years ago that the masses would be so large that they would testify.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u15	...sounding in advance, don't you think?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u16	A respectable president. We've put out here at the council contracts that we're dealing with in the short future against the end of a very bad deal, according to our opinion. There will still be a common price fixing in the dairy industry. Shepherding is a manufacturing system without any definition of geographic location or attempting to control bait. It was a complete lack of consultation with key users, such as consumers and taxpayers and heads of distrust, that we feel that, in Icelandic agriculture, we do not trust him in competition with foreign foods that bring high customs to the country. V.E.G. In a recent interview, a minister has said that these contracts could have been better handled, that farm contracts had to be prepared better. I'm curious to know what it was as much as possible. The former agricultural minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, should have done better in bringing these contracts into practice. The current minister told the News magazine that more research had to be done and to calculate better before the contracts were made. What's the highest calculations? Minister in mind? Is he considering the effects of overproduction in sheep fields on farm prices? Because this is how it is according to the simplest economic formulas we know to produce more and since the demand is low, it simply lowers the prices to farmers, as we already see happening. What was it that should have done better when preparing for these contracts? What will the minister do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's true that there are a lot of new deals that were approved here. They're looking forward to a long future, developing a system that will ensure that agriculture will survive well in Iceland in the coming years. However, differences in external circumstances make the situation more complicated today as to business conditions. Export is more difficult, etc. We have also now seen that farmers have dropped prices. When making contracts, you can always be wise afterward and learn from them. What I mean, when I'm talking about how it could have been prepared in another way, it might have had to be a space to calculate a better impact on a single farm, to see how this contract would affect farmers who had bought a farm a year ago, etc. Of course, it's something that's easy for me to say to the coming of all of this as a word. I'm not saying that my predecessor or others would have had to be more careful. I'm just saying we have to look back and learn what we could've done differently in this. It's nice to tell you that we've recently hired economists into the marine and agricultural department, which is just ready to go into these calculations that we didn't have before. So we're adding the facilities we have in the Ministry to do a variety of calculations and the like. The deal like that is good for agriculture, I think. Of course it is when the contract is signed so large that not everyone will be pleased with it. That is the nature of such agreements. It is ours, in the recent revisions of the Treaty of 2019 and 2023, to try to fix what can be fixed and have been observed in humans after this has happened. Thank you for asking me again for this question. It is very important that we have the opportunity to discuss the agricultural environment. The agreements agreed here include setting up a particular team that will investigate and discuss the long term environment of agriculture. [[The president calls.]] This is exactly what they're working on now in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u18	A respectable president. I have to admit that I feel that the answers are rather few. I was hoping for more, chief. Minister, I was hoping for a minister to discuss, for example, a system change, a need for more system change. It wasn't. For example, this new agricultural agreement strengthens the fact that sheep farmers remain poor, built into the systems that we remain in this new law. It is acknowledged that farmers who do not live near a store get more strength because they say: "Well, no farmer can survive just having a small sheep's farm; he needs to get to another job. If he's not around a store, he won't be able to work and get a special strength. [[The president calls.]] I'm done with my time. I'm not going to say any more about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u19	A respectable president. I think it's safe to say right away that there are ideas. A senator or her team has the agriculture, and the ideas I have about Icelandic agriculture are hardly compatible, unfortunately I have to say so. These contracts are taking part in a system change. In case of a moment. A senator is talking about even larger changes that would be nice to hear because I fear that this is not because the body of Congress or the senator has the best interests of prayer. I'm going to protest against that. A senator should stand here and talk about poor farmers being poor, that farmers remain poor. [[I'm being accused.]] What a surprise it is that the senator stands up here and says so! [[Up front.]] The vast majority of the farmers in Iceland live very well. They're pretty good. Of course, it's like in every other class between parties who don't have it particularly good. It is proper to consider in the contract that those who live apart from urban areas will receive extra funding and payment according to certain rules. [[The president calls.]] This is just in harmony with what is done in many places.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u20	V.E.G. President. The forwarding party government and the Independence Party received a marvelous gift from the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. The money was restored to the state funds. What did the right government do about that gift? She used it to lower hunting costs and dishes in tourism, two flourishing industry, which should have paid more for society than did not need to be given. What happened to the pensioners who received all the wonderful promises here before the election? They were told to wait for the system change, which has been built for years and is now entering the council. What's to be done? It's supposed to put 5.3 new billions into the system, so that's not much, next year. But what are these 5.3 billion in use? Are they used in those with the lowest benefits? No, there will be unchanged improvements as a result of this system change. Will they be used to improve quality of life and to improve the quality of life of those who are affected by housing conditions? No, they'll be in a worse position and there's a growing group in Iceland. Will they be used to improve the quality of the disability pensioner? No, that group is completely left behind. That's the group that the Economics Association has the highest risk of going to poverty in Iceland. That's how the right hand's gonna use the baby gift she got. We totally refuse our priorities. I'm asking the highest. Social and housing minister: Is she serious about this message for pensioners?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the speech here. On the other hand, I'd like to redirect a request to the point. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir: If anyone had been serious about working on the Board of Governments, they wouldn't have prevented, in the Social Security Committee, that changes in the reform system could be made. They used political opportunities to counter change. It is quite difficult to expect to take up important changes to meet those who have been remembered in the community, such as are being done with the bill that turns on older citizens, the bill on a welfare committee, and, as was the intention of making changes in the reforming systems, but, among other things, because of opposition from the ruling parties and refusing to participate in the work, we are trying to get together after people are finally attending a meeting. I really hope that the work will be different now that the bill has come to the Committee, and we will try to work it together for the least benefit to those who have.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u22	V.E.G. President. I see at the top. A minister has a bad conscience, for instead of answering my questions, she starts asking me questions. Isn't that embarrassing, chief? President? In terms of the status of the micro-energy donor, the highest level is applied. Ministers are responsible for the situation. Microenergy pensioners neglect government trust and for good reason. Because she could not squeeze down her throat the changes that involve complete uncertainty about their standard of living and status, including By this skill assessment, she lost it from work. The union has great respect for social security and for those who rely on the forwards of that system. Working with us to change that system is no problem. It is the right government that has shown disrespect for those who rely on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u23	A respectable president. During this terms, 55 billion more have been put into the social security system. The bill that now exists on the welfare committee, which I truly hope is being replaced by 33 billion more in the next 10 years, 5.3 billion at this time of the year. [[Up front.]] So I really hope, and I rely on it. A senator will support these changes. In terms of the high divorce rate, I would like to point out that by 2012 the highest value in Iceland was very low. We've almost halved it since then. [[Up front.]] There's never been more than a government fund on fishing fees. We've put that money into the welfare system. I certainly hope, and reciprocate it here, that we can gather for the change in the disability system, because it is particularly important that we make some very important changes for the benefit of those who have mentioned the housing market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u24	A respectable president. A violation of the Constitution is a very serious thing. Here, one of the most experienced members of the General Assembly, a well-proved minister of the Iceland government, asked if the votes now to begin might be delayed because of the statements made yesterday. The authorities refused that request. I now invite the President of the Generals to part here. When a professor of government rights at the University of Iceland, Björg Thorarensen, U.S.A., gives a public declaration in the Morning Press yesterday that the Constitution of the Icelandic Republic cannot be extended to cover this matter. A respectable president. The General cannot vote and vote against the professional opinion of the country's leading expert on the Constitution that we have sworn to. I ask the president to postpone this vote so that the committees to address this matter will review these serious matters and call on those to whom they need to be called. More than anything else, we are here at this council to protect the republic's constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u25	All of us have a duty to protect the republic Constitution and to make a sworn oath. What this particular matter may have seemed to be, so it entered the council long before this year. It has been to treat the State Department and the Commission and the Commission, and on the basis of that work, the Foreign Affairs Committee has completed its work on the case, finding conclusions on the issues presented here on the basis of the information available and taking the matter into the council. It is not the role of a president to stop the situation when it is normally passed through those committees who have been working on the case, not for days, not for weeks, but at least at least. For months.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u26	Mr. President. It was requested in a discussion on the subject of yesterday's issue to the highest degree. The minister of state would confirm the value of the emergency inhibitor written, the specific book to introduce the joint EEA committee, to other ministers within EFTA and other members in the EEA. That request has not been answered. I'm going to have to give the highest attention. It's a very normal request for a president to do so. The minister confirmed this understanding, for according to the case of the greater part, this key in accepting the matter is to accept it. And I have to say, I also find it strange to hear the highest. Social Ministers testify to the asking of exorbitant regulations that the Constitution committee has given three regulations, and who knows what will happen to them at the council. V.E.G. President. Everyone knows that the greater part halted the application or provision of authority in a given area. This was directly followed by the discovery of the Annexe Party. [[The president calls.]] Here people come and talk, as you may see what happens at the council. [[The president calls.]] This is why we are in the position we are now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u27	A respectable president. I'm gonna make serious comments to the President's conference board. Here we go. paritaprevir A bitter Ólafsdóttir, apparently being accused. If it is so that each time the members are criticized in some way, we will do nothing else here at the Generals. I think the highest. The President's only got to revise this conference board because that's what he's doing. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir here is actually discussing the subject we discussed earlier. It's very unlikely... to be accused at the moment. A senator claims that farmers are all poor. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] Talking down to farmers in this way, of course, is outrageous.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u28	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. We have sworn an oath to the Constitution. We've discussed the matter we're about to vote on below, and it's clear that there's a serious disagreement about whether it's going to last the constitution, 2 g. The Constitution in particular. A legal arrangement in the Constitution has been for discussion over the years, not just in a newly completed committee of directors. It was also in the Council of Control. It was also on a bill of administration and monitoring committees. We've had a lot of time to discuss these matters. But now, we're going to step against an EEA case in a bullshit dispute to see if there's a 2.kr. the constitution, without properly addressed that question. I think it's only a little too much to show how badly things are being held here in regard to priorities. If there is to be a consent here to a case that is not certain to exist in a constitution, they should rethink their priorities. I strongly recommend that we postpone this vote until the case is resolved. The EEA can only wait for the Allied Parliament to ensure that the Regulation will implement its constitution. [[The president calls.]] Nothing in our business is more for us than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u29	A respectable president. Last autumn, national conferences of the Agency entered the Constitution Committee for no further discussion of expeditation, that was not political support, and therefore was terminated. No logical support came with this, it was just the conclusion of the national meeting. Hence, it is reasonable to believe that at one of the U.S. high - speed payments at the council, one of the greatest scholars in the country will ignore it. And the senators, likely in total opposition to their national meeting, will participate in handing over authority from the country. It's amazing. I mean, aren't people really going to take one more twist on this case? Is it going to get hurt? Is there a hurry? Are there any in Brussels waiting for the advance team in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u30	V.E.G. President. I haven't been directly involved in this case, which is now under consideration, but I've, of course, watched it through our agents, well. Skarphéðinsson And I know that there's a lot of pressure from both Liechtenstein and Norway that we're going to finish this case. I wondered what interests we are in, Mr. President, by taking a vote at this point on this matter when Björg Thorarensen, the chief authority expert, feels that it is not possible to go so far in power on the basis of private constitutions. I think it is important now, when we protest that the Constitution is to be replaced by a vote at the General Assembly, that we be made clear, Mr President, the interests of the Allied Council of Iceland are being defended by this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u31	A respectable president. Because of words at the top. A president who had been working the case for a long time at the council is well aware that there have been weeks in progress at the Commission and the Commission because it was neglected on the part of the government when it came in. We have made this improvement in cooperation with the government that it is in any way safe now that Iceland's power is not being limited to the emergency of serious economic problems. The case was thus prepared by the government that it was completely uncertain as to the effect of this case on the national sovereignty if we were to face the situation again, such as those in the fall of 2008. It remains that this aspect of the matter has not been discussed thoroughly by the board and board of directors, which is whether the constitution covers this exponent. I don't think she will. I agree with Björg Thorarensen and I simply believe that if this case goes through with the votes of the greater part of the Councilis, we will be changing our understanding of the constitution so that we will not have to change it if we walk in the European Union. There will never be need for exposition if it is not needed now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u32	A respectable president. I signed the majority opinion of the State Department on this matter, including Based on a thorough investigation and the opinion of the administration and monitoring committee which came to the conclusion based on the opinion of Thorarensen and Stefán from 2012 that this may be supported by two solid solutions within the Constitution. It was reported yesterday that Björg Thorarensen, our chief authority in the administration business, is officially at odds with this matter. That's such news to me. Eiður the person I signed for the Constitution for my work at the Generals is that I believe that there is good reason to take the case back to the committee and consider it a little bit more carefully based on Björg's opinion. If we don't do that, I don't see how I can support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u33	A respectable president. As far as I can see, the president has to postpone this vote. I would like to ask the President to consider very carefully the arguments presented here that are very serious. We're not talking about any case, we're talking about the fact that there's one of Iceland's biggest executive experts in the government rights that this is not going to be any further in extending the constitution. I think, in view of the fact that this was true yesterday, we have to simply postpone this vote, even if it is only after the day, so that people can get counsel outside the council to review these matters and see how it is right for the General to take the next steps in the matter. It is irresponsible to look in the other direction when such serious comments have been made by that specialist, that is irresponsible on the part of the Generalis, that is irresponsible on the part of the president, and I challenge the president to postpone this vote in the light of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u34	Mr. President. It is quite true that the case was settled on the basis of a thorough investigation by a board of administration and monitoring. But there is new news. They happened yesterday. Then, at that time, Dr. Berger Thorarensen, a director who is the author of an idea of a way that was implemented, says: "The way is not implemented in a way that the Constitution can withstand it. It is a new exuberance, it says, in new areas. We're suddenly standing here in the face of this. We have an oath to the Constitution, also to the highest. President. So, then, are we not at least seeking our suspicions? I asked the highest. Active minister of foreign affairs this morning: What harm can be done if we wait until next week? There's no harm. The only damage done is that it cannot be settled at a meeting of the EEA joint committee. That's all that happens, that's all. Should we allow this to hold us back from fulfilling our oath to the Constitution and seeking our suspicions? Even what? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, former president of the National Law Association of Iceland, said here that the matter is in an answering - gray area, which is the nearest town in Black.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u35	A respectable president. Don't you think it's all right for us generals to pick up a little bit? Here are members of Parliament who have claimed to support the majority opinion and state that in view of new information, they want the case back to the committee to review what is said by specialists like Björg Thorarensen, and here we have a fine trace. Is it not all right to accept it and to get used to it? We've been stretching and pulling the constitution since the competition pill was taken. Since then, we've been in a very gray area, and I've given up Congress cases over and over to study where these boundaries are and how men stretch and pull the constitution when it comes to the EEA Convention. Here's one of our main expert at saying that the basis for the deal is smiling. Should we not listen to it and gently step to the ground before making a vote?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u36	Mr. President. This case was discussed on Tuesday evenings, this is a case that the Norwegians gave in June and was defined as a major expedite of authority under the Norwegian constitution. We're being considered here by a board of administrations and monitoring committee, which is why. The State Department is based on the opinion that there is a major disagreement within the administrative and surveillance committees on the implementation of a constitution, and this point is said to be due to a political conclusion in the council hall, but the courts have to do with the last word. This is the opinion of the administrative and surveillance committee, Mr. President. Then we get today, or yesterday, Björg Thorarensen's opinion that must wake people to think at least that this is not a matter that should be handled in a conversation at a church hall on a Tuesday night and that it is important that we resolve the matter with responsibility. I reiterate that I find it perfectly normal for us to give the case the time when the committee would accept it again because it's a big deal, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] I wondered where the chairman of the Independence Party is in this discussion, who has repeatedly called for expeditation in a constitution so that these gray areas can be destroyed. [[The president calls.]] There are others who were upset. The members of its party speak in the same way, but they don't hear much of it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u37	A respectable president. I would like to, in view of the discussion, to have a recession at a meeting so that the council members can have the discussion on this subject. Senators have wished to consider the matter even more carefully. On the other hand, it has also been observed that this work has been handled by the council, which is involved in the Constitution. I think it would be very good, therefore, if our good council members came together and we were about to take a short break.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u38	The president intends to have a brief recess on the meeting in a short time, thus considering that there is no reason to continue the discussion of the President's Conference Board.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u39	A respectable president. We are discussing a case that is very large, but it may not be much discussed, which is a transportation issue in the capital area, and especially in the city of Reykjavík. This morning, we read a news item entitled "Interestance in Reykjavík, salt. " It calls attention to the fact that the most accidental roads are in the capital area and, indeed, in the city of Reykjavík. This does not mean discussing transport without specifically approaching this issue. We need to get in a safe place in the city, whether walking, riding, or busily. We will only do so if we follow a clear policy on transport, policy based on the best data and information. A respectable president. There, the city authorities and the state must work together. It is not acceptable that there will be as serious an accident as it is in Reykjavík. Heavy traffic does not lead to serious accidents. I would like to note that the definition of a serious accident is that the individual will be injured and never fully recovered. It is since the person who is in a wheelchair or who has more ark or something else that we can say is less serious and does not have the same impact on his life. It's not just about traffic security. Well, it's actually... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... There is too much pollution in the city along the road. We are, for example. with all these traffic obstructions now, cars stopping and moving, and the pollution is increasing. To put it in context, the road from the Grensás is as long as from the Grensás as it is up to the Earth's Street as possible, and pollution is 30% higher along the way, where it needs to be stopped as often as it really is. Clearly, these things require financial support, and it is, of course, a limited amount and will never be enough. But it's also about approach. Take, for example, hikers who spend much rather than compared with other things when we stop on the way to and from work, us in the upper part of the city that would not have to be. Similarly, it would be desirable if only public members of their shared opening period so that stress times would not be as great as they are today. For some reason, transport in the capital area has been a factor in the spread of transport. All transport procedures are justified, we should be able to cycle and move from job to job, to bus, and also to use the private car. There is nothing like wanting eco-friendly or health care to travel as well as being against private cars. The private car's not going anywhere. Our society will not change in such a way that it will become unnecessary, a long road away. What we need to disappear is this serious accident. That's why I want the highest perspective. Minister of state. True, I was going to discuss other things that also lead to security, which are the ways out of the city, and then I'm referring to the Sunway and Cutthroat Way. It is clear that as the population increases and the number of tourists increase, the pressures are still the same. We need to get to that matter in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u40	V.E.G. President. Of course, this is a very important subject. In the capital area and in the city of Reykjavík, a senator sets up a schedule for transportation. We have at times said in these sales that when talking about transport, individual projects outside the capital area are often discussed, and less is the subject of urgent action to be carried out here. In fact, I think that's too bad because, of course, all the people in the country are concerned with transportation, especially those living in the capital area. The state is responsible for 40 miles [40 km] of footways in Reykjavík. Of course, this means that they are to be maintained by the government and also to look for ways to make transportation easier and safer. It has to be said, as it is, that in order to reach an agreement on how to implement a particular project, it is important that a good conversation between the state and the community be made each time. Now it is this way between state and city of Reykjavík that there is a contract where the main emphasis is on the building of public transport, as I think Congress knows and that contract is in force to 2022. In this context, I have maintained the importance of building solid public transportation. I agree with what. A senator says that humans must be able to get on their way in a way that is convenient for each individual. Public transportation is important in this regard. It is also that the city's road system is important. There's going to be trouble there, and you can't wait much. I've had these conversations with mayor. I think, in spite of this deal, we need to find out what important work must be done in the city. During a 12 - year schedule, there is a busway of Réjanes'street ▪ Bumbourg Road. There is tremendous traffic, especially at high times. It is becoming so bad in many parts of the city that people find it very difficult to get through in the morning. This project would have a tremendous positive effect. I hope that the city of Reykjavík will come to an end with us that such projects could become a reality. There are other projects. I personally believe that we should have a completely different thought when it comes to starting courses within the old city of Reykjavík. I'd be very interested to learn that there will be a discussion between the state and the city of Reykjavík that the Grand Way is simply put in stocks. It would be possible to build on top of the old Great Way and build and make the city beautiful. I also believe that, and I want it to appear here, that it is not just in the land where a tunnel belongs. It would be easy to look at a funeral in the capital area as well. The city of Reykjavík is now gathering all its traffic into the outer corner of the city. I think it is necessary for us to view the development of urban planning in terms of 20 to 30 years in advance by trying to get our traffic better below the earth and to be a little more concerned about it. It may be possible to look to some of the mixed financing for consideration. I think there's a lot of opportunity for the future. I expect the city authorities, whoever they are at any given time, would agree that the capital's right is the right thing to do. About the Diving Way, and it knows what it's like. A senator well himself since he was a city representative here in Reykjavík, that is certainly not a new issue. There is no agreement on how to treat state and city. Sadly, though, there are some factors in the matter. This is true of how to get the waterway to the city's side in organization. They're now building an apartment structure in the areas where the waterway is supposed to take place, but I'm saying that it's an enormously important process of transportation, and I want to keep it up. Asked about the Sber Way. In fact, she has not been carefully examined by the State. I'm not on the move to express myself very much about how to do it. I stress that we look less at the footways that exist in the city and wonder if they can be made different than they are. Who says the Grand Way must be the way it is? Who says so?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðlaugur told Þór Thor Þórðarson for taking this discussion at the highest point. Minister of state, and I'm also going to rejoice in the tone I hear from both of them regarding public transportation. Our goal with transportation reforms in the capital area must be to increase the pace of those who have to travel between positions, reduce pollution, and reduce the cost of daily living. If we look at two factors relating to the construction of traffic in the capital area, half of the total country in Reykjavík, apart from green areas, will be the construction of roads. This is an enormous amount of land that we have already maligned to drive or park cars. Even if we can improve the present system without severely reducing the quality of life of those living in the city, we cannot go further. Now, a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is taking mayors to the capital area a special trip to Vancouver, Strassburg, and Copenhagen to get a presentation from the most advanced and the highest public transport authorities. I'm glad to hear this, and I'm very happy that the State is waking up to life and coming with us on this trip from Reykjavík and the capital area. This is also a key factor, the growth of public transport, in our ability to fulfill our commitment to reduce emissions. [[The president calls.]] But once again, Madam President, thank you for your helpful discussion. It is a pleasure to learn that people in general are aware that the growth in public transport will improve the quality of life and reduce pollution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u42	Madam President. It is imperative that we discuss the transport issues here in the city. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðlaugur told Þór Thor Þórðarson to pick them up here. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. A senator said the importance of the community working together on these issues. That's what I think is extremely important. Something else I thought was important. A senator came on was to have a perfect opening time to get rid of stress points. I think there's something that we need to focus much more on in our organization. By avoiding stress points and long waits, we can save a lot of money in various types of traffic workers. That's a very important thing. It's probably true what happened at the same time, that private cars won't disappear. But by means of organization and the decisions made here, we can certainly reduce the need for each adult to have his own car. Of course, there is a key issue for a powerful public transport system. It also matters when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. A few days ago, we were validating the Paris convention. That is exactly what it says about the key options for reducing transport emissions. But because of him. A senator spoke of the accidents and people who live in poor quality of life and disability after an accident. Finally, I want to remind them that we too agreed to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientation. Transports are huge bioavailability issues. They are especially considered in Article 9. The deal. [[The president calls.]] When it comes to planning transportation, whether in the capital area or elsewhere, we need to think that people are all kinds of people, and people of all sorts need to be able to get around.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u43	A respectable president. Philosophorist Róbert H. Haraldsson made a test of it at the time and published a paper on how long and often the bicycle could be used as a transportation device in the capital area. During a two - year period, he concluded that there were only two days that he could not use the bike. We are to do much more of what a community sees of it, and I am glad that in the capital area, bicycle paths have been laid, and the materials have been greatly improved. What a positive attitude that is! I think it's important that we discuss this type of transportation. Many years ago, in Gothenburg, the decision was made to cut off the snow from every bicycle path first, so people could use their bicycle as a transportation device all year round. Sadly, the city authorities in Reykjavík have not done well enough, especially during the last winter, where snow was on bicycle tracks for a long winter. I know this because I use my bicycle to get to work almost all year long. I'd also like to say in this context that when I started doing research on transportation, almost ten years ago, as a minister of the Department of Transport, we were talking about the Sunway as possibly the next major project in the capital area. Since then, nothing has happened. There, real plans have to be started and financed. Unfortunately, the current Parliamentary section and the government have been too busy to complete one transport program during this terms. It's just been too big for this more thing to handle. If you consider the reasons for this, you may find some conclusions, but the cooperation or the work on a transport committee at the council is something I especially want to mention in this context. I don't think any of the other committees found anything as often as in short notice as they did on that committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u44	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir For this important matter, the Guðlaugur - given nature of Þór, a transport in the capital area, God gave it to Thor Þórðarson. What is key to saying is that people get caught off course. In addition, it is our mission and the city's authorities to make sure that it works out the right way. It has been discussed with several projects, and many factors have made it difficult for the capital area to drive. I can mention a few more bottlenecks, such as Lönönönönund, as well as the Apostlebund. There have been some of the things we can do to reduce the traffic pressure, but there are other ways to reduce traffic pressure. I'd like to report a meeting as an environmental and transport committee that had to do with representatives from Strasbourg, France, when they arrived here for spring or summer to study transportation and more in Reykjavík. They have been successful in reducing the use of their own private car and using both traditional and unconventional routes. They've increased the number of pedestrians and bicycles by using all kinds of incentives, and we're trying here with tire tracks and more things that I really like. However, there is a special effort that they make so that most people who drive alone in a car will not be able to have a share economy for private cars. This may be something we can encourage and try to look more at. My entry into this discussion is that we not only look for these more traditional means but also try to learn from others and find alternative ways to reduce traffic congestion and traffic pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u45	A respectable president. I would like to start by thanking the advocate for this tremendously important and extensive discussion, which is transport in the capital area. It's a lot to take, and I think that's what it is. Since talking about public transportation to not being alone in the private car, most of the delegates tore up everything they could. What I want to do is a walker, especially pedestrians in the winter. Many people hold back from going out of their homes because the streets of Reykjavík or Kópavogs have not been cleared in the big capital area. Thus, old people who live even one thing and have to get into the store simply do nothing unless they get into a taxi or use a car, just because they haven't cleared up, they haven't had salt; the sidewalks haven't been cleared up so they can take the bus. We're talking about a rather large group of people who would walk, but it's impossible. But it's quite possible, and we don't have to find the bike up again forever, for Iceland and I are a little eager to think in expensive solutions. In many parts of the United States and Canada, where snow is heavy, each one is responsible for his own driveway and street. In this way, you can make sure that all footpaths are good. Walkers are also part of our transport system. The fact that some people are afraid to go out for months, as in winter when it was very heavy, is not supposed to happen. We need to consider whether we need to adopt some kind of system, a shared system, a gathering of snow, sand, and salt. If we do this together, it's much easier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u46	A respectable president. First, I have to establish what may be the basis for today's transport crisis, which is that this government has decided to put far too little on transportation. V.E.G. A minister has simply said that in reply to me in the earlier election period, it was a decision to prioritize in such a way as to use less transportation. Strategic transport contributions during this ideal period are historically the lowest possible amount. For example, as a proportion of GDP, they have been 1,1.1.3% but were 2.5% in 2008. That's the problem. Then a transport plan comes in from the highest level. Minister. There's an estimated 7 billion in maintenance and improvement for the whole country. This means that even previous investments cannot be maintained. The system will continue to collapse. Today, more than a portion of the transport committee has made a decision to add a billion, but that is not enough. The road has told us that it takes 85.9 billion just to keep the previous investments going. Then, if there is to be more to do, the next step will be to the future, this would have to be 11 billion a year. These are the numbers we look forward to. This is a large side of the review of the Association of Company Associations in the capital area, where they are very careful with the problem of maintaining these low contributions, especially the safety of the cities. Then I'd also like to mention that I've been especially exemplary in the cooperation that has been achieved among all my colleagues in the capital area through the so - called city line. It is a project that I believe the government should make much clearer and more determined. [[The president calls.]] As is well noted in their comments on transport plans, long - term road transport resources can be saved if a good - looking person is built up, city line, speed car, and so forth, right here in the capital area of public transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u47	A respectable president. This is a big, important case. A word-of-fact here. I appreciate that discussion. I'd like to kill on a few things. First, there is one basic thought that I think is very important when discussing urban transportation, i.e. equal transport, to ensure that people have real options for which transportation can be chosen, whether to walk, cycle, use public transportation, or private car. The trend has been to develop the capital area in Iceland that the construction of transport workers has been primarily for the sake of the private car. What we are working on right now is drawing out the potential for the development of the transport system that serves other types of transportation. It is important, on the national level, that a special program of public transport is being developed that, of course, is primarily responsible for the construction of the capital area, although it is a national project to become a special vehicle program as part of a transport strategy, not just a planet as we are accustomed to see, but that we are, in fact, planning in all of these sectors. I would like to agree with what has been said about the Union of rural society in the capital area and their regional planning. It is extremely important, especially because it prevents the tendency of the Council to respond to the city's plans, depending on who are in more part there at any given time and that we face the common interests of the capital of the whole capital to develop urban areas and powerful public transport options in the capital area with speedy or easy - to - read systems. [[The president calls.]] I would like to encourage direct support, as we have in a small part of the Environment and Transport Committee specifically proposed to a minority list of transport programs that will hopefully be discussed here before the election is completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to start by thanking for the discussion, she's certainly in need. It has been considered well, from the speakers who have spoken before, on the urgency of the whole system, of course not just here in the city of Reykjavík, but it may be today. Hv. An abjective entered such things as pollution when cars are stopped at lights, and then he, like other independents, speaks as you have heard, with special warmth toward the private car. I may have to point out that if people go to a lesser extent on a private car, each of them reduces pollution in the process if they also have a verbal issue. Most important, the fleet is electricized. We should be thinking about much more than we do. With regard to traffic security, I'll be on top of it. The minister is here listening, and we have this discussion with her, to draw attention to a place where it is clear that there is a danger, the danger of a very serious accident, the link between Chrysuvíkótttir and the Smokejanes Way. There are, in many cases, the most dangerous corner of the country. At the edge of that area, there are 4,000 inhabitants, and this is a large industrial area in which large heavyweight trucks, trucks, take a left turn out from the town of Smokeynes. Although I want to look for solutions other than the discrepancies in densely populated areas, there will be a mishaps. [[The president calls.]] I want us to react immediately because I'm very afraid we'll see in this place a very serious accident if nothing has to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u49	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. Transportation in the capital area has been my heart's problem while I've been a senator. I've spoken a lot about how fast it will be as soon as possible on Sunway. Now, in the 12 - year transport program, I believe that there will no longer be a necessary construction, since 1994, when a special festival was held on the roof, the city's exits were blocked, and since then we have increased dramatically in the capital area. If there is a natural problem or any other damage here which leads to a rapid evacuation of the capital area, there is simply no room to control it. In fact, it was in my inquiry to the Minister of Internal Affairs during the last term that this was not mapped and went to the job following my inquiry. There is something else that we need to remember that in the capital area and in the city of Reykjavík, there is a future organizational arrangement to have a full view of how the city should develop, a general view that the city's waterway will be connected to Geldinganes, so to mention, with a vision that the building of the capital will be the east of the city instead of setting up an apartment area where possible beginning the Sunwaters. A respectable president. Sadly, the city and the state do not have the same outlook on transport today. This may be because it is the largest part of a state and city, but this has to be changed so our capital can be a capital capital city and there is no exception to the organizational issues. There should not be any conflict or rivalry between the capital and the present state.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. Councilmen and the highest. Minister for the discussion. I've thought she's rich and good. I'm not going to trace everything other members of Congress have said, but what I'm stressing is this: Security is fundamental, and we can't ignore the fact that there will be too many accidents in the city of Reykjavík. We have to deal with it. There's too much pollution. There is one reason why it is responsible, and it is a light - controlled intersection. We must approach it based on fact rather than wishful thinking. I'm in a battery of electrical vehicles, but there's going to be a serious accident if you're on an electric vehicle, so that doesn't solve the problem. So we must approach it as high as possible. Minister did. Regarding Dizziness, do not close the waterway in Reykjavík. It's a huge project that will only be done with mixed funding, it's clear, and that my opinion will be made only by linking the Sunway both Gingdaneis and Weey, otherwise very unwise. It's opening up a big chance for the future here. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir pointed out that there is too little money to go to transportation. I can agree with that, but the problem is when it comes to Reykjavík that the current city authorities do not want to take money from a means of transportation when it comes to public traffic. I'm glad to hear that the tone is different. Councilmen of the United States but more of the city's capital, since this is the biggest problem. All of the rural areas in this country are pulling funds for transport, except for one thing. As long as we don't deal with this, there's going to be an unnecessary serious accident here, and it's intolerable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u51	V.E.G. President. I don't think there's any need for a discussion - if one meeting could be held in the hall, it would probably help - transport in the capital area and the previous one. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I think that Reykjavík's members have often missed it over the years, as I mentioned in my talk here, no matter how much emphasis they need, they are always on transportation across the country. The same thing must be true in the capital city. I want to emphasize this again. We must not adjust the cost of transportation to one another. It is possible to be here with a proper transport system, be sure to ensure the movement of pedestrians, and make sure that those who travel by private vehicles can get in place. There must be a common goal for them to be done safely and to avoid accidents as far as possible by people who have to get their way in the city. As far as there is anywhere else, accidents cannot be accepted, there is no way that we can accept them. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Year's Árnadóttir said of the United Nations Convention on Infirm People, i.e. That people are all kinds of people - people who live in the city and people of all kinds who have to travel. It is our job to make sure that it is possible. Those who live far away from Reykjavík, but they need to find work in the morning, making sure that it is possible. I think it's key. I don't believe it, but these things are supposed to work together. Finally, as soon as I thank for this need for this discussion, I would like to answer that question. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir said here about the tournament at Hafnarfjördur. That is to offer them out this year, an enormously important project just around the corner. A senator, a very dangerous mold, and a very good example of a failure to take a false step.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u52	A respectable president. This may be a classic conversation, but we'll discuss it, me and the highest. Minister, on the day of the country's financial conference, I assume the case is the highest. A minister at the top of his day and by chance that this discussion takes place on this day, but I think that's for the benefit of the case. What I would like to focus on in this discussion and to pray to the highest degree. A minister to take action may, in principle, be it easy to see that the rural communities in many parts of the country deal with problems in their business, while government funds have been able to reverse difficult positions and pay down debt, where things look for better after the collapse of the economy. Now it is true that countries and rural communities are each side of the same coin, so to speak, in which it is really different shapes of the public against citizens of the country who have taken various tasks, but should be given to all of them on the basis of what the government has to do with the same inhabitants. Of course, when one side of the government is relatively well - equipped, the other has a problem, as we have seen in many parts of the earth. Among other things, we are talking about the loss of income, which has resulted from individual decisions and the actions of the government, to form with regard to the bank tax, and it would be a good thing to do. A minister may only bring up the promises made by a minister. I am well aware that the matter of improving our communities is the damage to the environment and transport committee and has not been removed from there despite specific requests. It's another story in itself, but it's part of this overall picture. Today, large groups of cases have lost their communities, now the last cases of disabled persons. We see that there is no permanent and safe base for income for the rural society to sustain their new assignments. It is of utmost importance that this communication between state and rural society is on a high level and that communication is the closest thing on equal ground, that we are not in the position where local communities need to appear at the Ministry of Economic Affairs or to a financial committee on their knees to get the assignment financial support, but that the association and conversation between state and rural society are in order to maintain full dignity and privileges in that relationship. We see one example after another, where law changes are made. We know that, me and the highest. Secretary of finance, that it is expected in the way of costing all the bills in terms of the cost of rural society, but we also know that it is not always so that it is done sufficiently and will not always go along with money if it is shown at expense. We have seen many examples of this. It is exhausting for the government to have to constantly be attending this to someone who is, like, a higher rank in this relationship. So I want to pray to the highest. Minister to put a few words into this dilemma. I myself was in the management of the European Union, and I was vice president of the Union and sat at the Jónsm's Committee when it came into existence in its own time, especially in this regard, to release tension in the exchange so that this level of government would be more equal to what it has been. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to respond to who he thinks is such a situation. Then I'd also like to ask the minister to react to speculations that have increased in recent losses involving the positions of such small and busiest rural communities, Skaftáhrps, Snips, and others, where nature protection and peace-infested areas are within the ranks of rural society, but no money, huge structures under stress, roads, waste management, waste management, waste business, we know all of this together. Most important, the most common resort in Iceland is Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] That rural society also enjoys intense and increasing pressures because of tourism, but it has not earned any money to survive that change. I'd like to ask the secretary if he sees any possibilities in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u53	A respectable president. We talked about today at the financial conference of the local community, including the U.S. for financial relations. I'd like to begin by saying in general about the financial relations between state and rural society that they were pretty stiff in the years after the crash, perhaps to some extent overlooked, because both of these scores had to cut down and hold very tight. The government's demand was high, and it may have been infected with government and rural relations, making matters freeze or instantaneously fogged that would have had to be progressive in financial relations between governments and rural society. As the economy has taken over and the status of the Kingdom treasure has improved, we have been able to make some major efforts. First, I'm going to mention a deal with the local community on the basis of government financial laws, where we take the lead in building policy to the future, setting financial policy for the government, state, and rural society, set goals for ourselves. Now we're working with a goal of about 1% leftover by the state. In other words, in the coming years, we do not insist that the level of government is much more or less involved in the survival of the official, assuming that the level of government will be reassigned to irons in the near future. This gives evidence of a change in procedure and gives rise to great opportunities. Each year the agreement between state and rural society will be made on these topics. There have been some specific developments here, specifically mentioned by the bank tax. Yes, damage is because the matter should not have already been reimbursed at the council. I have supported the matter in the suit it was presented to the council, even more I will not say on that subject. Regarding the special delivery pathway, comment has been made from the local government level that there has been a loss of income. I think it may be said that the first ideas, both of us here at the council, or the greater part of at least, as well as the level of government, about the loss of income that this would lead were a bit inflamed because the participation in it is somewhat less than we anticipated in the bill. Yet it is significant, on the 4th of thousands of homes it uses. I don't think it's part of the community that's involved in these matters. It may be possible to say in general about the financial status of the local community that what distinguishes the situation is how different it is from one place to another. Some are fine, others are much worse. Our attention may have been most focused on those who are in a bad state, and this has potentially slowed down the progress of areas of larger and more powerful rural areas. We've taken a big step, though. I mention the transfer of disabled persons, who I feel have been successful. I'm also going to give you a new agreement, which is the basis for a framework on the management and services of nursing homes based on a day's budget. We're putting 1.5 billion into the budget bill submitted to the council yesterday to agree with that agreement. For many societies involved in that agreement, this is of vital importance. Then I'd like to say regarding the move in the country that what is mainly lacking is that we are better aware of the cost, whatever the cost is on the individual rural groups. We need to give this matter a complete consideration. There is no question that rural society benefits from the increased arrival of tourists into the country. This is reflected in an outing, in the form of a travel service that has increased in response. The same goes for new buildings. I told this morning at the council that the banks we see here and relate to hotel buildings, of course, are a check for future real estate rates, all those buildings. Also, by some means the increased income of the state's funds will be returned to the rural communities through an equation fund. I agree with what. A senator that there are some areas, especially these small rural communities, that especially need to be looked into. We've been putting money into the tourism fund in recent years, including to allow these rural communities to apply for grants to build up infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] This was important in the context of our duty to lower the protest rate to 20%, to gain strength in that fund is to be relieved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u54	President. To be honest with you, there is a small issue for those of us who have not been involved in rural politics. What exactly is involved? Yes, it is how much of the government's public income, whether it goes to state or country society, goes to the countryside and how big it is for the government. The government has certain income institutions, and its rural communities have certain income institutions. Then money is divided through an equation fund to the rural society by rules that ordinary people don't prove to be true and are not so transparent, so I use fashion concepts. I have recently come to the conclusion that this transition is one of the most important political solutions. Important projects are done by the local community, e.g. Schools, elementary schools, cultural language of any sort, the subjects of the disabled, to name just a few. In order to handle these projects, rural society has to be funded. The other day, it was said to my ears that my rural society had made its own deal with the State. I can't understand how that can be. The government is to make sure that the rural communities have enough money to care for these tasks and cannot cover up the wooding rules on how public funds are distributed. That's why I'm glad to hear that there are some rules in the future about this. The secretary of travel says it's unnecessary, e.g. to make a special price for tourists because the money of tourists flows into the state funds. I ask them, " Why hasn't she made it a point to get some of that money to be paid by the movers'communities? ' [[The president calls.]] Why is it all in some old place?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u55	A respectable president. Thank you for this timely discussion. It is important, when thinking of our communities, to remember that society's level takes care of and provides approximately 40% of public service as we look at the crowning points. The rural communities are not part of a town. On the contrary, the key part of the government, if we can say so, and most of the service responsible for is close service and direct service to individuals in the community. Thus, this is a ministry that is of great importance. Therefore, after the experience of being a member of the United States government and now at the General Assembly, I want to emphasize the importance of the communication between state and rural society as closely as possible. It is very important that the government considers the community to be, not an independent party in town, but an important partner in holding on public service and services to the people of the country. Here at the Council, we make laws and regulations. We are always making laws and regulations to ensure the rights of our citizens, the performance and quality of our service here and there. Based on this rate, a large proportion of this service is rendered to the responsible members of the community. We have to look to that also when it comes to earning a country or a country partner. I think it's very important that there's no fixed conversation, i.e. that we constantly revise that arrangement. Tourists'bombings in recent years have changed much, not only in how government income is combined but also in how services and responsibilities have been divided between rural society. [[The president calls.]] It is very important to revise both, and I want to introduce it in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u56	A respectable president. The ongoing mission of state and community is and will be revised to work and income share together with the development of society. In fact, that work involves every aspect of society, and it really matters to all of us. Trust and cooperation must exist, and both parties must shoulder responsibility and take into account the different needs of both the smallest and the largest groups. Society's wealth is a key factor in this work, and it is long ago time to revise the tasks that have been entrusted to him gradually over the years. The objective of this review should be more transparent and simpler in the role of the fund. At that time, all those with financial resources, democratic elected representatives, whether of the general council or of the local government, need to know the role of the fund at one time. Granted, travel services have changed much in recent years, and there is a need to clarify the role and review income exchanges. One of the factors to be found is some way to give an answer to a smaller rural society, where there is a high annual crisis in number of jobs and who are working in the tourism business does not lead to a country where income is purchased. I don't think there's going to be any coming fees that could take place between the projects of the state and of the country's society and a bedmark tax that goes entirely to a rural society is worth a closer look at. It is also important that, during the coming years, the development of resource reimbursement guarantees that part of the budget will flow to the rural level in some way. The current urgent tasks, except for this, are e.g. The business of immigrants, developing a good partnership, as well as the work of urban activities in rural areas, especially where there is an increased burden on public interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for calling attention to this huge, important matter about how we divide the income products or the tax that people pay to the state between the state and our rural society. I think that as soon as we look at the discussion, everyone sees that our rural society has been overborrowed, and especially since we're trying to have a variety of services in the vicinity of the environment. Then, in particular, I talk about moving school to the local government level and, of course, when we took service to the disabled people and so on, on the streets. They need to meet that challenge. At the same time, much more people are using our infrastructure because we have arrived with this similar tourist stream. I don't understand why Iceland always has to be picking up the bike, over and over again. This is a solution, called a host fee, which may cover up to 5% of the price for up to ten days in some countries. Our images, if that kind of price goes directly to the countryside. We're talking about a couple of crowns, 200 miles. on head at night, but it would make a difference for the communities, for the small communities in the country, but also for the city of Reykjavík. Here, more than a thousand more are using public transportation, using the infrastructure, and somehow we need to respond. It is absolutely unacceptable that we are constantly walking around ourselves in a ideological crisis of whether or not we can reimburse new charges. It's time to do this and stop doing nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u58	Madam President. This is a good discussion and need and is required to be needed, I think, in the years to come, because as mentioned earlier in a changing environment, where projects are being moved to the rural community, it is necessary to consider what is being discussed here, i.e. Trade between state and country. At this morning's financial conference, I took a stand. A minister said that this could be solved without new income companies. Then I ask which companies he prefers to raise. It has been observed by the rural community that, for example, the answer should be raised in order to make up for the great issue of disabled people. We also agreed during the days of the United Nations Convention, which has to do with the better - disabled people, and that is good news. This, of course, results in an increase in cost, not just for a state but also for a community. The rural community has also requested that all constructions be dependent on real estate values, i.e. that the currently in force will be taken away, and they will also be involved in the revenues of electricity production, e.g. Real estate taxes from all its manpowers. I'll ask the secretary how he feels about it. This morning the president of the United States of Iceland also observed that it was reasonable for him to believe that his rural society would earn a lot of traffic according to their transport expenses. Actually, before I finished a conversation with them, I would like to ask if something came out of it. Because the minister himself mentioned the real estate fees, that it would now achieve an increase in income as well as the answer, of course, the building is primarily in the capital area. The increase in tourism that has occurred in the country involves not much building but more work on the increase, and unfortunately, tourism is low - paying jobs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u59	A respectable president. This is a need for discussion, and thanks to the circumstances. A pilot for starting it. At times, I feel that the debate on how state and community work is not appreciated, and when the high school talks to high school that the numbers coming from high school cannot be trusted when they move to high school. It's somehow like this: You don't do things well. We do things better, and you need to be careful. It may be a little bit, so I often feel that we are nearing that project, financial contact with the state, and rural society. Rather than look at us as having two administrative points, which, in fact, should be equal if it is done and in all discussion, and that there is respect in this room as well as anywhere else, for these levels individually. It is clear, however, that the opportunity of a rural partner to increase his income is not on many fronts, unlike those of a state that can put taxes on a variety of tasks or factors that may be made into a government fund but that may not go much further. To me, and I speak here as an ex-communicator, to consider this exchange in a different way than we do today. In one way or another, we need to increase the income of a community. I can even see that. and through traffic tax revenues, by fuel costs, because cars drive through rural areas as well as on roads set by the State. Second, I'd like to say about this real estate tax that many people say I'm one of the local leaders who thinks it's supposed to be decommissioned. This is nothing more than a possession tax on what you have in your community, on a house you've built and worked for yourself. [[The president calls.]] Of course, you can rent the property from the local community, but spending forever paying taxes on what you've gotten is ridiculous. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u60	A respectable president. It has long been awkward for the council to complete the pay of tourists. Nothing has happened during the reign of this government. Therefore, there is good reason to use this opportunity to encourage the secretary of finance to introduce here the suggestions of a solidarity in the National Expert Board on the increase in prosperity in the country during the days and years. Jón Gunnarsson, president of the trade station, has expressed support. There, a group concluded that the currency available was to be used, made small changes, and allowed part of it to flow into the rural communities. This can be done by experts of all major national stakeholders, and we're just supposed to do it over here across the council. Second of all, I want to take this opportunity and challenge the highest. Secretary of finance, to take in the pride of the skull of his representatives on the Environment and Transport Committee in a similar way that he has dealt with his representatives in the budget within the last 24 hours. Of course, it is totally unmistakably unannounced that here, on behalf of Iceland's government, a matter has been brought in following the contracts with the rural communities to bring what they have in the country and that the bill has been taken hostage by a small number of members of the Parliamentary Committee and is still there. You must just ask, is there no government in this country? Are there no rules? Do not political ensigns come before the judges themselves? Is it not to rely on an agreement that the government makes with the rurals? Or is it only lawful to agree with other administrations of days on a committee and be taken hostage by the irresponsible actions of men there?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u61	A respectable president. I don't know if that's because there are a lot of former local managers in the hall, but the discussion is very good and deepens as the process goes on. I'm especially glad to hear it. Rather than repeat what the senators have been discussing before, especially with the tourist industry, I'd like to state that there is every reason to review the host's fee and to include some of it in the countryside. It could be a very simple, easy way to make a move, and I'm telling you, it could be the easiest way to make a move. Secretary of finance to examine that implementation. All I wanted to do was continue to communicate between the state and the community because there have been grey areas in the development of project split and income exchanges that have caused the present state and rural society and that have often made service an unfunded service, even a long time later. A fine example of this is contracts involving an ambulance drive in the capital area that took years to negotiate. Then it took even more time to finish our contracts with the State, while our rural society went on an endless way of asking for a store. The same can be said of the time when a contract finally reached its end when it comes to the career of the music schools, which was used as an opportunity to end all sorts of cases that had gone between the state and the local community. This suggests that it is very important that these communications are limited, and problems are solved as well as not collected and fixed every ten years, as you sometimes have a feeling. Finally, I wanted to encourage the highest. Secretary of finance to use his influence in order to get the bank tax bill to the highest level. The minister described the support we had, extended through the council as the first thing to make the income that had been negotiated with our rural communities return to its rightful place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u62	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for this need for a discussion about the income-and-work division between the countryside and the state. There is one thing that I think we need to keep in mind in this relationship, and that is that we must be bold about reviewing the experience of how it has worked out when assignments are made from the State to our community. I can, for example. mentioned that very many of the people I have met have expressed doubts about how things were handled when basic schools were taken to the countryside because there has been no peace in the activities of high school and there has been a great fight, etc. It is also worth considering the experiences of others, e.g. When areas of the disabled were moved to the countryside. In Denmark, where I know fairly well, a rural society has a degree of 75 thousand people just on the ground of being able to cope with this series of issues. The question, then, is this: Are we getting ahead of ourselves when we do this? Third, I must look forward to the position of the rural society in this country being naturally very different. It has been discussed here that rural society should be involved in the increase in transport income. That's right. That is why it is very sad how it is in the largest rural society in the country and here in the capital area where there are 4 thousand units rented out to tourists and probably 13% recorded, and it has been passed by the legal process by the General Assembly since spring what is called homemaking by itself, which means that 31,000 units are wishes out here to carry higher property fees. I present the initiative of the city's authorities to get these assets into registration, thereby increasing the city's income instead of planning to add the city's income to it. [[The president calls.]] One must first fight for himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u63	A respectable president. I want to thank you for your discussion, and for your benefit and for the highest. Minister for the answers in the first round. I would like to bring up a few questions at the end and try to be a little more specific. First, I'd like to ask: Should we as a community make it a major challenge to reduce the number of rural areas in Iceland, i.e. Is the community a targeted unit? Then I'm talking about working with them myself. Is this the subject we must take in view of the size and scope of our tasks, as well as perhaps the environment, organizational matters, all sorts of technical processes that are very complex for rural society? Of course, many rural communities have cooperated with such projects as well as other projects. I'd like to ask the Minister if there's any policy, whether this was specifically discussed in the government. I realize that this may be more a matter of the trade party than we are approaching elections, so maybe we can break that conversation. This is part of this financial relationship. I'd also like to ask the Minister if there's an opinion in some Norwegian states at least. of Denmark, i.e. that rural societies themselves are free of paying credit taxes for their activities. I don't know exactly how much money is under there, but this would be something you could look at, and I'll ask the secretary if it was done. Third, I would like to ask him to try to answer me as to what can be done for the capital area, especially because of the tourist current. Here we are under intense stress, for example, in the spa, because of the high and increasing traffic. Some people have been talking about changing answers because of the seasons fluke, and I'd like to ask him if there's something he's considered specifically. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I'd like to ask him for a direct visit to reconsider and raise the cost of lodging, if it might be considered to divide it so that some of it goes to the local community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u64	Madam President. Thank you, too, for an excellent speech today on a very important subject. As I took steps to think that it is important to me that we have put it in a formal approach, and I have high hopes that it will trust more fully in this conversation for a long time. The question is, how do I look at reducing my population? I've believed that it must be done in good cooperation and that the benefits of reducing my rural society were only to do well with the work they already have, and that many rural communities are too weak administrative measures to do those tasks, that I don't talk now if we are going to continue to move projects and paintings to the country level. But it has advantages and faults. I don't think it's to be overlooked because there has been a tendency to do so when a project has been transferred to the rural government level, and thus the service reaches the population that expenses for the case have taken place. It must be taken into account when we develop a further discussion. With regard to the value tax, I have not had it in my mind that you, of course, are not in the system, except for the other member of your community. This means that they will sit on taxation when they engage in such service. For tourists and for the stay, we have announced a triple charge in our long - term schedule. According to this, a bill should set before a year's matchup to triple the balance fee. Whether or not we share it with our communities, I'm ready to discuss it. I've just called out that it would be clearer on the part of the community any budget that's the most difficult thing for them to do because of the more tourist arrivals. It is clear that if we move on to multiply the host's fee and split it with our rural society, the percentage of the new income stocks would remain in the capital area, especially in Reykjavík, but we would not be doing much for the communities that we specifically mention in our conversations earlier in this conversation that are the small rural communities that do not have hotels or such. [[The president calls.]] They couldn't get anything out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u65	Mr. President. Whether the president is here to postpone a meeting or not is absolutely clear. If there's still a meeting on the board and surveillance committee, I don't think it's possible to continue a meeting here. There has never been a custom at the council that at the same time as the meeting at the council committees, people have also continued a meeting at the council. Then I want to make it clear that I've been received to my ears that at the meeting of the Commission and Control Committee, it's not to find the Björg Thorarensen Director for which the meeting was specifically held to hear. I'm told that only Skúli Magnússon is there, but it's impossible if the meeting is about his opinion. Skúli Magnússon, chief of scholars, on the other hand, is the author of the solution to the executive authority I mentioned earlier that is not good enough. They do not go and ask the Source of a solution that is considered unacceptable. That's what I wanted to be very clear about. A meeting that is held for such reasons does not lead to subjugated waves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u66	The President wants a trial postponed at the hour. One to two o'clock. 1:30. The President received a request from the Board of Directors and Control Committee that the meeting be postponed until the end of the session. 14th The President has not received any request to delay the meeting until the end of the appointment. On the other hand, it has been announced that the second part of the program planned for this morning will not be the same until the end of the day. 17 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u67	Mr. President. I'd like to inform them that we at the Group of Congress thought that a meeting would be longer and past the clock. 14th Therefore, because one of our nobles in that committee needs to disappear for personal reasons from the meeting at the Committee. 14, we had preached to meet a substitute. I think it's a black minimum to the highest level. The President will make sure that a meeting of the Board and Control Committee is completed before a meeting is held at the General Assembly. That has not been the case for the past 18 years after members of Congress protested that they held meetings at the same time in the Synod committees and here at the council. It's never been so I know, under the direction of the President, who has now been very tight to direct the council for the past three years, being made that way, so I ask that there be an end to a meeting of a administrative and surveillance committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u68	That's right. A senator says. It is always so contrary to the fact that meetings are held at the General Assembly at the same time as the committee is present when the council meeting is delayed. The President looked so on, after having received a request for a meeting since the time of the appointment. Half to two and no further requests had been received, the president felt that a meeting could be continued. The president was trying to take steps to find out what the situation was about this particular meeting as well. A senator refers to and to paying for action and to ensure that they can succeed below will now be held off by the president for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u69	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the law on the Penitentiary Fund of the People of the State. The bill is that the main policy is based on an agreement made between the General Association of Public Workers and the Economic Ministers for the State and the Union of Iceland. It is a new common pension system in which all remuneration employees enjoy comparable pensions whether they work in a public or a public labour market. The main points of the agreement are: Public and public labour markets will be consistent and balanced according to a specific book on this subject. Salaries will be better able to move between public and public employment markets at any time without any significant impact on the processing of pension rights. Official employees in the Pension Funds will have comparable rights, and they now have 120 billion dollars. The government's contribution to the unfundable future commitments for them. The welfare system of public employees will be fully funded and the system will be self-sustained. The origin of this agreement can be attributed to discussions between the labour market partners on the need to establish a uniform pension system for the entire population. One of the reasons to achieve such harmony is to bring the pension rights of public employees to the usual labour market. With discussions on the altered order of the Department of Pension of Public Personnel, a staff on the scene for the MSR set in March 2011 are represented by the joint representatives of public employees and representatives of the European Union and Economic and Economic Ministers. The bill suggests that the Regulation on A Division will become the main policy to be suspended at the end of 2016 and that the department will be from January 1, 2017, based on law No. 129/1997, of the related insurance rights and the work of pension funds, and of the approved ones. This changes to the fixed rights of a bank member based on a wide range of laws, as is now being done. This is to be expected that the management of the fund will suggest changes in the approved fund, where a new right system will be installed, in view of fixed benefits, and other factors of importance will be discussed in order to form some other aspects of the fund and investment policy. The bill expects the government fund to pay a donation, called pensions, i.e. the differences between the rights of a cashier according to the rights of a 65-year pension period and the rights of a donor according to age-related rights work and a 67-year-old pension policy, and place funds in special precautions. In agreement with government and rural society, it is a common estimate that in view of the financial status of the State Fund and the local community, it is in the interest of established financial goals that the state funds cover about 20.1 billion dollars. A commitment that the rurals would have made, by the way, due to financial contributions to the A Company. At the same time, it is common to understand that in the future business talks of the state and rural society, financial relations, including Because of the influence of law-changes, the support of the State to rural areas that take over commitments will be taken into account. Still, the rural communities will be costing the A House Bridge and will greatly increase the debt of the rural communities. It has long been aimed at creating one labour market in Iceland, but one part of it is to coordinate the pension rights of public employees and workers in a general labour market, both to facilitate comparison between the eligible groups and to ensure that employees and those who practice employment or independent work can move to a labour market and between pensions at any time during their working years without having a significant impact on their rights. The general market has already adopted age - related work, but the European Union of Iceland and the Employment Organization made an agreement in December 2004 to set up age - related rights work in funds on their contracts. She was placed in funds with certain adjustments. Thus, in general, funds companies who paid for the change generally held the right to equal rights to the limit of the work end and the cost of living beyond that maximum are counted for rights according to the general age-based rules. In this regard it is proper to consider that the criteria set out in the sentence of law No. In reviewing insurance benefits, 1/1997 has not been able to walk. Thus, at the end of 2015, the insurance status of the A Company was negative at over 57 billion dollars, i.e. about 8.8% of the total debt of the fund. Moreover, that situation calls for changes. For the funds to be balanced, payoffs would have to be raised from 11.5% to 15.1% in total to 19.1%. In the present system, rights will accumulate on equal rights. Such practices lead to a dollar paid for by an employee, e.g. 66 years provides as much right as an employee who has, for example, an employee. 20 years of age, despite the fact that the younger one will collect fruit for 47 years and the older one for only one year. This results in young generations passing down the rights of older generations. As the situation is now, it is impossible that Ward A can be sustainable while the department has equal rights development because of the dating of our financial institutions. Age - related rights management corrects this indiscriminately, since the system assumes that pay is due according to the time it spends in the fund. This results in the removal of the pension fund regardless of the dating of a bank partner. In recent years most of the online pension funds have corrected this discrepancies and it is urgent that the same route will be taken to balance the A department. So the bill suggests that the A Company legislation will basically be removed, and together with the approval of the fund will be changed, stipulated that it resides in the age-related legal year and the 67-year pension period. As a result, age - related rights practices are being established in the Icelandic Pension Department. The bill includes the fundamental changes in the order of pensions to the majority of public employees as I have tore. The quality of a cohesion in the LS and Bridge departments will be age-dependent, but in parallel with the change in the future debt of LS and Bridges will be fully funded by public paypayers, as well as the pensioning age will be increased from 65 years to 67 years. These changes are consistent with what is commonly used in the public market. In order to ensure the rights of your existing trust partner, remuneration will be paid to the legal department and will ensure that this change will not be done at the expense of your creditors. The change ensures that the fund will become sustainable, so there is uncertainty about the future debt of state funds to the funds as well as destruction by this operation. The bill is an important factor in the equal pension rights of an Icelandic labour market where the balance of pension is expected to be 76% for the entire labour market. Earlier this year, the general market took a step when the European Union of Iceland and the employment organizations signed a contract where employers' biofuels are increased in resources to the level of contracts made in a public labour market. This adjustment will be fully implemented in the middle of 2018. Overall, the change will have a positive effect on the workforce as it increases the choice and flexibility of workers. Workforce will be better able to move between the public and the general market with a more variable market demand. Also, the long - term effects of an equation of pension rights between the general and the public markets are to have a positive effect on the entire population, where uncertainty will be eliminated for the future debt of state funds, the operation of the public pension fund will be sustainable and the flexibility in the labour market will be increased. It is evident that following these measures and related plans, Iceland, one of the few countries around the world, will be able to provide financial resources and a coordinated pension system for the entire population. Such places include a tremendous amount of lasting strength for both the public and the economic system as a whole. In this context, it has to be possible that the Penitentiary Department of Pension is still having quite a wide variety of limits on its commitments. The fund's place is not likely to live up to the commitments that have been made, and it is not worth much. It is on that basis and on the grounds that the last few years have brought this error to attention, and we plan to start right into the next year's deposit in order to minimize the amount of money that others will have to make in the future. About 2026 C.E., the purchased Penitentiary Fund of the State of B Company is emptying against commitments, leaving the commitments behind, and the state's budget will then be emptyed, if nothing will be done in the meantime, have to pay out from the range of 25 Been 30 billion each year to meet them when commitments are made. Presupply to this commitment, which has been announced in a long - term budget for financial matters, reduces the impact or extent of the future state and spreads out over longer periods of time. I believe that is a very reasonable arrangement we should agree to support, or we're pushing the problem even more ahead of us. I made it clear that Iceland is one of the very few countries in the world that, by the changes we are here, will have an active and fully funded pension system for public employees. It's not a small deal, it's a huge deal for future generations. In the context of the section, it is really remarkable how little one can be viewed as a factor like this when considering the status of individual nations. I mention, for example, that an assessment firm completely ignores the cumulative commitments of state funds when it comes to evaluating their ability to live up to their commitments in the future. In general, the menu companies look forward only to commitments that fall into place over the next five years, which includes the accumulated Penitentiary of Pension commitments entirely apart from the ratings of the companies. This is remarkable, especially because many in Europe are based on a flow system, i.e. From morning to evening, there are promises that the government will be entitled to pension at some future time when the taxpayers of that time will have to take care of. At the same time, there is a demographic development in these same countries that numbers of children, the border has become open, the European Union has become one large labour market, and no guarantee that the taxpayers will be there when these huge commitments are tested in the future. In addition, areas such as the European Union are competing with other world areas such as Asia, which are rapidly growing, Southeast Asia, I don't now speak of South America or after African and India's experiences that are predicted to grow faster than these areas, I'm getting a pretty dark picture. Let us always bear in mind when discussing the status of the state's funds, the standard of living for us Icelanders, and the foundations they are built on, and the prospects in Iceland for a long time, how fortunate we are to have made a long time ago a decision to put aside to earn the commitments that are here. This is also important in another context. I mention, for example. that they look to the pension system as a result of the fact that today we have a few generations who do not have more than a year's work to build adequate pension rights. This will mean the future. Therefore, it will improve the social security system through the collection that has taken place. That's well, because it will ensure that we will be much better equipped to support those who are in need of social security and the support systems we are going to have in Iceland to support those who are living, those who have suffered tragedy, those who need support from their fellow citizens for each occasion. The concentration of the welfare network will be the better it becomes when other systems play it more closely, like the pension system. I'm finally going to put this matter in a slightly larger context, in relation to our task in Iceland, to work for an increase in stability, lower inflation, and lower interest level over a longer period. The annual growth rate for the households is about 100 billion per year, with an average interest rate of about 5%. That means that every percent of the population we manage to reduce the growth rate of the households would relieve them of about Twenty billion interest per year. Two percentage points would lift 40 billion interest payments a year. This case, an equation of pension rights, is one of the stages, one of the watch on the way toward a new Icelandic labour market model, which is absolutely necessary to get on and continue to work in order to bring us closer to the northern labour market model. It has become more difficult to create a labour agreement, both general and public markets, that much less efforts have been made to include extreme increases that are in excess of growth in the economy, and as a result, less frequently have been made by contracts in the labour market leading to inflation pressure, which has resulted in increased prices and subsequent growth rates. In other words, the labour market has been more supportive from public action to maintain stability. Here I would be tempted to talk about what the government can do, but I'm just going to refer to my previous talks on public financial matters, that we've done a lot, our rural society and the state, to work on the same goal. However, this is also a matter of concern to the labour market and is not only a prerequisite for continuing with the SALEK agreement but also a prerequisite that over a head can continue to talk about the potential to balance pay between general and public markets and that it can be talked seriously about providing public health insurance to government employees in the spirit of the North countries. Public market insurance is required and understandable because experience has shown that the public market will take place particularly during the labour contracts provided by public employees. This has led to tensions in the huffing business, even leading to strike strikes, this has led to a repeated fracture and a dolphin's leap in both local and public labour agreements, as well as between the two markets. Surely all of us want to work at preventing this in the future and to continue our work toward making a new workforce. One cornerstone of such a new work model is the expansion of pension rights. I think there's a reason to use this opportunity here to thank all those who have been involved in this work over the years, it's work that's been going on for years, both in the administration and in the unions, in their overall organisations, and at the scene of the rural government in the country. It is so far from the default that years of working on this end with a broad solidarity and agreement, as is the case here. We know from the discussion that there are outstanding cases of lack of commitment in the agreement, but, of course, the state cannot have a conversation and make agreement with each partner in the country but must always focus its words on the entire labour market. What a joy it is that it seems that the overwhelming majority of their companions have provided support for their leaders in handling this matter! I'm also going to say that there was a basic approach to all work in this case that we were going to protect the rights already acquired in the system of public employees. This means that we had to arrange for the negotiations to be made so that no one could handle a single item at the same time, but at the same time never were there to improve specifically or further the position of the individual groups of public workers. This aim is achieved by the Annex Program, the Penitentiary Service, and I think it is safe to say that the timing is fine because the government fund stands strong at the moment and is able to cover the A department. It is not default for a government fund to be in the coming years while men plan on building a new Landhouse, wanting to support the social security system, to take special care of the patient's income, to watch for further transport improvements in Iceland, to want to increase the educational resources to approach our neighboring nations and control countries in donations at a university or elsewhere. It is not necessarily possible for the State to care for all of that demanding work and to close unsaid commitments in the pension system. But these conditions exist now, so there is the opportunity to bind this matter. I believe that there is reason to thank all those who have come to that in the past. As we proceed further along this course, we will see a step towards a new work model I have traced here, where the basic thought will hopefully be, in the future, that we will have developed an agreement on how we put our fingers on the leeways that are present to the level of pay in the country. We need to find some kind of groundwork to take that conversation, a means to measure the space available at any given time so that there will be no disagreements at the same time that we need to discuss how to divide the space. We've been over the years discussing whether there was room and how much room would be for the increase in pay and then we've had to deal with how to divide the space, in line with the last cycle that discussed that the highest pay, assessing education for pay, and that in this country, experts would be able to move abroad if their terms were not to improve very significantly at the same time. In the future, we may be able to get out of that position with a new work market model, which means that we've developed a model to measure and reach an agreement on the scope of the situation, and the dress code is then about distributing it, dividing it into agreements. One of the basic elements of the work market model, as I see it, will be that the general market and, in particular, the export branches will be responsible for the collective agreement, their public market will follow and will receive pay insurance with automatic pay supplies at the time of the collective agreement, consistent with the pay raises that occur in the general market. This would be a model that would be very, very, in the spirit of someone who has proved to be good elsewhere. An important part of getting to this place would be to eliminate a conflict of pay balance between markets. With the agreement here that lays the basis for the equality of pension rights, there's a book that says we put money in researching pay between the public and the public market. We're going to develop a methodology to measure this amount of pay, and we're going to handle it in particular. We're going to try to make it within the framework of the SALEK meeting but we're not going to take it into the collective agreement. I intend to keep it in mind that it is not, as it is, and has never been a common understanding between the public and the general market on the scope of such pay, or whether it is visible above the head if it is to be divided. In itself, it is a challenge to find out, but we go to the work of full integrity and listen to what is required, such as. has recently appeared from police and other trade unions on the importance of working on this. We go to the full - time work on the basis of the book on this subject. A respectable president. I hope that here at the council can form a good agreement to end this matter. It's very important to me. We are faced with the fact that without an agreement of this kind, we either need to raise the tax paid by the public because of the error in the rights of property or to postpone it again. Besides, expectations are bound to that, on account of all of our parties, which are of little less than all the public market organisations, that the matter will be successfully ended by Congress. All of the main stakeholders who have something to do with the changes being made in this bill are parties at the same time, with the warning I've mentioned earlier that we have not been negotiating with each member body of the UN. For this reason, I believe that the matter is well developed for stakeholders that men should be able to get very well prepared for discussions in the Council Committees, and the council should have all information before them in a short period of time. If the bill is legal, the change will take effect on January 1. I propose, Mr. President, the case will be referred to a second. and to the budget board at the end of this discussion. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u70	Madam President. As shown in the history of the highest. A minister is an enormous figure in this regard. Since we're dealing with national pensions, it's important that we carefully cover it and try to work. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to the interaction of this system and the general system. This bill suggests that pension age increases from 65 years to 67 years. However, for the council there is also a bill from the Supreme Court. JIS Minister for which there is a change in the social security system, i.e. that pension age increases in classes from 67 years of age to 70 years. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether or not the combination of these two systems was in place in the processing of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u71	A respectable president. You're right next door. There's a senator that we have a relationship with him in these two systems. But, of course, we hope that those who are active at the labour market over their lives would prosper in building a pensional rights on their pay payments that will not test the rights that are present at any time in the social security system. The increase in the pension age according to the global social security system referred to to to take place over a very long time period over decades. So I don't see it as an independent problem, but it's not a secret that it's happening here that the retirement may be about 67 years old, but at the same time men don't get the rights to pension until they're 70 years old in the future. [[The president calls.]] But this does not necessarily conflict.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u72	Madam President. I'm that way, because people's pensions are people's forwards, and therefore they're so important, we have to think about what the effect in one place might be to do in another place. So I think it's important that this be checked in the overall context. Of course, it is possible to hope that people will earn a good pension over the years, but the reality is that people will face all kinds of situations throughout their lives, which, of course, come to the State's hands. That's why it matters. Both systems have a flexible retirement, a potential for flexibility. I'm very into that princely gesture. That is why I believe that it is absolutely necessary to try to determine the best of what any interaction is. [[The president calls.]] Well, that's the forwardance of the people we have in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u73	Madam President. I think it's important that we get into the discussion about these two systems, general and public pensions and then the social security system on the other hand, because they're both rights systems. So we are talking about the right to go to the pension of 67 years after we have built specific rights in the meantime. We're not talking about the obligation to go to the age of 67; we're talking about that the person working full-time has the right to start a pension on a certain date. Then, whether in the public sector or in the public market, you can choose to work longer. I don't know if I'm missing something here, but I don't think it's possible that even if we put a right to start a pension in the pension system at the age of 67, we need to have the right to take a pension according to our social security in that same year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u74	President. It's really... [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u75	President wants to ask for one meeting in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u76	President. This is certainly a remarkable bill, and it does not just take place for the present day. It takes on the future. We're talking about the pension of people far into the future. I realize that it's been working a long time and expected, not likely, probably very well, too. However, I am concerned that at the legislation of the legislature agreement, which is ultimately responsible for the laws and regulations that will be introduced into the future for people who have completed their careers, they are scheduled for a week to do that work. A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Doesn't he share these concerns with me just a little bit? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u77	Madam President. Yes, I can totally debate that I would have liked to have more time and more space, longer notices, etc., but I still believe that we have a duty to fully test whether we can't form a partnership at the council. The thing about which is optimistic is the fact that all interested people are in the agreement and have already studied the matter. All of this would be different if we were going down here after a failed attempt to achieve a bill in which we said, "We've had no agreement, but then we're going to cut the knot with this bill." If so, we would be in a very different position. It all depends on an agreement. That's why I believe it's possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u78	President. Large groups of professions have appeared and expressed their concern for this. Nurses say that they have observed this in the magazines or in the news. Police unions, orderlies, there's a lot of big, important unions working for the government who say they're not informed about this. I'm really worried that should be run through at this time. A respectable president. That's not gonna be the end of October 29th. It will be expected here at mid-November and New Year's Eve, so there's plenty of time to leave this behind and people realize that this is now a final case that many people have just not realized was so far away. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u79	A respectable president. Of course, I don't have anything to say about this point. I believe it was important that the council take the matter for physical treatment and payment. It can be reasoned that it could be done later and more calmly, but I say to the point that this case is mature, it has come to its disposal, and the agreements on the case are signed after a presentation for all the agencies and votes there, and the bill reflects that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u80	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is reasonable to fund up as much as half of the budget that the state fund has to deposit, these changes will be in the law of LIN bonds. The WIN bonds are a very special bond in this regard to investing them in education. This is going to be a major change if we're suddenly going to hand over LIN bonds to finance the state's Pension Fund. This is a fundamental change in the way the loan fund was originally thought. There's not been that way up here to hand out LIN's bonds, so I'm amazed that it doesn't say any more because it hasn't been done before. I don't even know if there's a law in the current law to hand out a bond. I wondered, " Is this normal, considering what kind of debt it is? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u81	A respectable president. I don't know about that. But maybe there's some misunderstanding here. When we discuss the financial fees of Icelandic students, we are discussing the demands of the State on the loan Fund of Icelandic students. It is not to speak of the credit fund's requirements for the students'loans that students have borrowed from their funds. It's the opposite. This is simply a matter of the state's requirement for the loan fund because of the financial dealings of this fund as lawgivers and State. He has funded himself with price - secure, well - growing letters and may be considered a suitable property for the pension fund and, at the same time, an excellent contribution to this arrangement because they remain bound in letters and do not go out to cause any expansion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u82	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. At least that explains what I was wondering. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, if all the conditions in the bill are aimed at the future yielding of the pension fund, it will be 3.5%. Is it something we can permanently attach, i.e. Is this a fruit requirement for this pension fund? Besides, I'd like to ask if the highest. Ministers have figures on how many sources of funds in the Department of Pension Services pay extra pensions. This is the scene for us to find out. That's not shown in the report with the bill, to my knowledge. These are the two questions that are quite simple: Is the pension requirement being attached to 3.5%? Are there any numbers on how many sources of funds in Department are paying extra pensions?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u83	Mr. President. I don't have any information on how many of the A Company pay extra pensions. They may be available in the committee's office. In the case of 3.5%, looking back has been a success for the pensions to work on the basis of that formula. First of all, there is nothing to change about that calculation or the basis for the bill. However, the answer to whether we can based on calculations that yield 3.5% of the production results will be shown whether we can maintain at least 3.5% of interest in the future. There is good reason to wonder. They should not be given anything to them forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u84	A respectable president. I would like to agree with others that this is a huge and important matter and that it is very important that the council work out carefully. I'm not minimizing the abilities of members of Congress and members of Congress, but it's certainly a concern how short time will be available. I wondered about the financing of the State, i.e. The 90 billion to be introduced into the system to fulfill the State's commitments, which so far have been an idea because they have not been in the financial system. But now this money goes into a pension fund and goes on. This is the amount of money such as the degree at which it is likely to have an extremely high and convulsive impact on the financial system. I just wanted to hear a thought. The secretary of finance to this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u85	Mr. President. As you can read in a bill paper, this remains for observation in a certain way. The report puts it this way: The use of a donation to the RSR has been mainly considered to contribute part of the government's loans to the Icelandic loans (INNU) to the Icelandic student's credit fund. But the foundation has been thinking about this so that the state would be in a position to lower its financial status at the Federal Bank, which would be sensitive to a third of the effort. Possessions such as those mentioned here may be considered as the next third, and then the final third, with the release of new bonds. But I agree with what. A senator's concern here is that this will not result in a stimulus. This has been handled in an excellent way with the LS, and it is a mutual understanding of its importance. [[The president calls.]] It is expected that the final outcome of this case will be in the suit that such harmful effects will be minimal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. This is certainly a concern. We've had no time for anything else, on the bill, and the report is certainly mentioned, but I think it's important that we keep this in mind. Already there is concern over what the investment needs of the pension fund are becoming a major impact on the most amazing fields in the Icelandic economy after the capitals were placed on it. It just seems to add all the time and here we are talking about a huge addition into it. So it is good to know that these matters are underneath. I look forward to hearing more of it during the hearing of the council. I'm worried that the pension system and this money is playing so much part of the economy over its head that it is becoming responsible for the economy that it is going to be the highest. A minister mentioned that there was a foundation under the whole ice. [[The president calls.]] Doesn't Minister worry about whether the system can normally be self-sustained for a long time?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u87	A respectable president. I'm very interested in discussing this aspect of the matter, not just with this bill, but in a larger context of the parts and thinking that it opened up a chance for us Icelanders because of the changes that are occurring in the composition of the economy. The rapid growth of tourism brings much currency into the country, which can again open the door to us from foreign countries. Heavy investments in foreign countries on the part of the pension system without influx of currency at the same time could put a lot of pressure on the currency. Without currency articles, it would really be empty talking about the vast foreign investments of these funds. Since the currency flow is so rapidly increasing, it seems that we are opening up a new door in these materials. There is more than good reason for us to take note of Iceland's pay model of payment, how far we should go at the same time as we secure the strong position of exports in putting almost little in the foreign investment of the pensions instead of wondering where the maximum is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u88	A respectable president. I don't have a place in the Economic and Business Committee, let alone a financial committee, and I just want to say, first of all, that pensions, pensions and commitments aren't my strongest aspect. I think it's important to put myself in this situation because it's huge and important. I'm glad it has come to a conclusion, has reached wide peace with apparently how we hit this knot or solve our pensional commitments, the systems that are not sustainable. There's been an accumulation of tails that we haven't seen at the end, but now we've got a suggestion to change systems and pay on them, so we can start moving this in the direction that we're not going to live in this position forever. That in itself is very positive, and I hope that we will have plenty of time to do so, for it really is necessary. I'll be breathingly listening to what other experienced senators have to say about this, and I think it's important that we do this well. It is important that we not only be filing and fixing this insurmountable system but also that we make our knots so that we don't have to start doing it again after some year, 203/430 years. Of course, there's a set time limit at the SALEK meeting, which is below but it doesn't take any more time than that in at least a year more, if not anymore. 2018 reminds me. We need to find out if these changes are going to stay together, and if they don't, we're going to have to make sure that they do. Of course, we may not always be paying in on this every year. We need to see if certain groups of people are less likely to come out of these changes than others do. I understand that there is a change in the age-related development of pension rights by the public funds, and I ask myself, " Am I willing to risk their high prices by coming to the job market later? ' Often it's women. We know that women are more long-schooled, that's more of a college student. So they'll come into the job market later because they're investing in their education, and what? Does this mean that they have less pension rights? I'd appreciate it if this were specifically examined in a budget that covered the matter, and she considered a whole line of groups that might be sensitive to this change. Of course, we need to be on guard against equality. With the pension fund, I heard the highest. The secretary of finance only came on when he answered the counter, investing the pensions abroad. There he noted that the stability of currency was a bit difficult; there should not be too much emissions from the land of capital. In a perfect system, a system where we wouldn't have a small currency that is sensitive to the fluctuations of the in-and-out flows, it might be best in my opinion to have the most investments abroad to have a kind of reserve in Iceland, if all of which has happened. A large percentage of the population and all reserves in foreign currency are then owned. The economic environment has been more stable than what we live in Iceland and it would be nice to have some of our savings in this system. Similarly, with all this pension fund in Iceland, they are many and they are inconsequential, if we can say so, you may get into paying some particular pension fund, which, of course, is legal, but you can decide what money it is, but then perhaps later, when you're taking out your rights, that the fund is pretty poor of something, maybe because there's a lot of microchip in that fund, there's a lot of classes that work and lose jobs, and then you're going on disability, and you realize that you have some way of it, too, because there's a lot less money in your hands. I think it's important that we start thinking about growing these funds, reducing the risk by having our investment more abroad. Of course, we haven't been able to do it so far because of the currency and all that, but now we're looking ahead in this regard. Another factor in this is that the dyspnoea in Iceland makes it possible for those who are in charge of pensions to be often those who own businesses and have their interests at heart. They may have to make decisions about where to invest, and they are very bad, and they offer corruption and also suspicion that the entire national pension fund is investing in linked companies at the head of the pension fund. It doesn't make sense. However, the weight of the country may not offer anything else, so I think we need to start thinking about getting this thing into another shape, having more abroad. I'm not going to extend this much, I'm just looking forward to listening to the discussion, and I'm looking forward to the speculations of the senators on what has to be considered specifically. I've said and stood by the fact that I think it's important that we work well in this matter. This is not to be done by some lesser baptism, and if we ever need to do so, we will just do it. That's what we're here for, and that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u89	V.E.G. President. We deal with the vast and large interests of all the people of the country, especially the public employees, who are concerned with the rates of pension and the systems we build up around it. I'm going to like others to be happy that this work has come to this stage. She's been standing for years. This is not a group of political subjects. It is something that, of course, we are concerned about. It is a work that began in the past government and has actually been a long break in that work, but the basis was the fixed - up agreement in its time. According to a bill in the bill, the letter of business has been reviewing the funds' A and B status and offering proposals for future solutions to their problems. But there was a considerable lack of funds for future commitments. In the shortest case, chief. President, is not being addressed to the B department's problem or, in any way, entering it. Now it may be impossible, I won't say, but it's not even being suggested in financial terms what it takes to meet the commitments that are hundreds of billions of dollars of money in the B department. So this will solve only part of the problem, and for any reason, the B Company is taken out of parentheses, and it seems to have nothing to do with change while the A Company is doing it, because it's different. I think there's a lot of interest here. I also know that there's been a lot of work to do, and the stakeholders are involved and they've done this job. It does not change that the Council makes the law, and it is important that we understand what it is that we are doing, what decisions we are making regarding the future of retirement living. I'm going to admit that I haven't figured it out yet, but it seems to me that we, who are paying now at the A Company this year, are coming into this pension system. But those who were in there before won't, and those who come in next year or the next year will not. It's, like, a... Just such a simple thing I haven't figured out yet. There's a much larger opinion that I think the General needs to discuss. You're absolutely right at the highest. Secretary of finance that the current work is being done in cooperation with the unions, which often negotiate these items in collective agreements, and then it enters the law. This does not change the fact that the legislature authority cannot deliver this power to the contact in a town. We can join them and benefit from their work, but we must also understand such complicated matters before we can make it a law from the Council. Then I'd like to step in on what was said in the opposite direction. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir earlier that we are also here at the council dealing with changes in social security laws. It's an important system. There have been ideas that we can handle it in just a few days. That bill contains one factor that raises more and more challenging questions - 70 years of retirement, indeed 24 years, than this bill is to move retirement age from 65 years to 67 years. According to the bill on changes in social security law, certain laws will not take effect until one year later because they will change the law on pension so that they can come true. This project is not being addressed. I think it's very unwise to make fundamental changes in both of these systems in a completely isolated work from each other. I think it's quite a song now to take all the work done, and there's a conclusion and work at this same time at the council. We're talking about important system changes in two important systems that play together and common forms of rights and systems that people establish in up to 30◯40 years. Now I may be exaggerating, but we can say that average age is rising so that for less than 20 years we can say that this is supposed to provide for our livelihood. We're not going to do it just in a few days. I don't quite understand that idea. It's not a group of stereochromes. This is just the desire of members of the Parliament to get a little better at their jobs and to make good laws that benefit those who fall under the law. It's certainly getting on to equal the pension rights to everyone except those in the B department, so we're going to support it, and it's in the agreement, and it says that it also needs to be met by the general markets and public markets. I'm standing here as a female senator and I'm well aware of the sex pay in Iceland. It has been almost unfair to overcome that amount of pay. When I read some wording about trying to level these terms, I'm afraid not that I agree with that goal, but how are we going to achieve it? Yes, public markets and public markets will need research. We've spent decades trying to figure out how to work against gender income, but I'm just really worried about that job. I don't doubt that the wonderful promises are behind us, but I want a basic discussion about this. We are talking about large classes of university students, such as teachers and nurses, as well as of any class with special education, such as. HCPs, and have been able to earn a lower salary in exchange for job security and safe living in later years. So there are great interests at stake. Just like what? paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir mentioned this case, and we must consider it with a generation cock. We need to realize how this will affect the benefits of the following ones. Then he spoke up. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir about 3.5% of the Department of Pension. We'll take it from here that it will remain the same. They all know that this is the reference to the growth floor in Iceland, which, in fact, makes them. makes it very difficult to dissociate the insurance policy of commitment, and this is the government that was about to get out of the insurance policy, a fundamental factor that needs to be discussed as well as the size of the system, as has been introduced by various members of the council. We are also talking about a public system and a general system. The public system is a more insecure system than the public, but it has actually been subject to state responsibility through the letter of the Substitution Fund, which the pension fund has invested in and is subject to state responsibility. Pension funds have a basic place in the Icelandic economy. They are crucial for the advancement of older people, and we need to look to many factors when we make the basic changes in these systems. Now, of course, so that we too need to set boundaries. All these bits cannot be chewed at once, the elephant must be cut down and taken in steps, but I feel it is important when we make this change that we have decided what is needed to be examined. Of course, we take these steps, but when we take this important step, I feel that it is necessary that we discuss the steps that will follow. It has also been discussed about the size of the pension fund within the economy. Of course, they are trapped within the bounds, although they may be able to invest more in foreign lands, but they have become very large and demanding in the Icelandic economy. It is vital that they begin to get out with some of their money for investments. We also need an overview of how this is likely to develop over the years. But I think it's risky and almost incorrigibly reluctant to settle the matter just like that in a few days. I respect your agreement. We are to strive to win the law in the spirit of that agreement, since it has come to those who have a higher interest in it. But we must do so with our eyes open, and we must do so so, so that we can understand what changes we are accepting, and we know the context in which we are accepting them and what we are going to do next. I've heard the idea that this bill as well as the bill for changing the social security law should be made up for a joint discussion. I take my mind to these ideas. I think we're supposed to try and solve this, so we have a real understanding of what we're doing and are actually taking care of people's interests regarding their progress in later years. I repeat, it's not a group of political issues, it's an enormous interest in all of us. We can easily work together on this and take the time we need to do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to admit that I'm still a little trying to get myself into this situation. In these days, it is this way that more and more major matters are being thrown in, as silly as they are today. I was thinking about two things about this. Now we have a problem. A health committee, where there's trouble. A senator who is chairman, was discussing the social security issue, and found that there are other matters to be considered, but in reality, it was very clear to the point of the matter, i.e. when it went to a committee after 1st. it was clear at committee meetings that more was needed. I've come to put a little bit of pessimism into this experiment unless we're about to start changing the work programme with its members, especially when we're so close to elections, it's more natural than usual I would think. This case seems to be much bigger. I'd like to try to understand, if there's some simple way to explain it, the size rate or the context of these two cases. I think it's obvious right away that we're going to bring this matter up to some extent when it comes to the social security and then the other way around. However, according to a talk given by the Supreme Court, this case is addressed. Minister. I thought about the treatment and the size and how we try to get over this matter so that we can get the best of it. First of all, I'd like to ask you why. A senator with whom I trust to keep the right interests at stake when it comes to this case: Count back. A senator for this bill solves the problem? Is that the solution? Or is it likely that more matters will later be needed to resolve these issues? I'm a little bit myself, so I don't believe in free money, at least not in a simple form, but I'm not sure if this is the solution to being planned or if this is a step towards some solution that we haven't quite figured out yet. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u91	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. This, of course, is a solution to a problem. What was suggested in this work? On one hand, equalizing pension rights between the public market and the public market. That means that the remuneration rate on the public market, which was better, could be inferior, but I don't know that because I don't have enough perspective on it, and the market is being recovered from it. Exactly what that conclusion will be, I don't know, but the goal is to match the rights. However, solving the problem in the A League, which has an unfunded commitment which should have been legally increased by law, but it was delayed because this work was being carried out. Then we have the third size, the B department, with hundreds of billions below us, and it's uncontaminated on this case. I think it's an important solution for the future, but whether the funding is sufficient, it's at the council after review. How are these two groups chosen and so different groups, to be viewed? Communicate with the new social security system, if it didn't go through the same way, it's obviously not just an old problem. So I can't say if it's a solution. However, I allow myself to assert that this is a very important step to balance my rights and that it really is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u92	A respectable president. I heard everything that this is a step in the right direction and it doesn't seem to be controversial. Then I thought about something that's a fact, if we think of it as simple, the social security thing went to that. The welfare committee, this case goes to what? The budget board. I strongly assume that the reason why things are going into two different committees is that these are dealing with financial foundations of how the system will be financed, while we speak of the user's rights in the social security business. I can't quickly see that I'm still studying the matter and I don't know these things very well, whether this has any effect on users, or whether it's going to have any consequences that would either affect the rights of users or be their rights for improvement. I'm not sure. I wonder what. A senator can teach me something about it. This seems to be the case if you look at it in a comparative document, it's a little taken out and a little bit put in. I am always vague in these matters, as it were, how it affects the real rights for the future. For this class of changes, it appears that there is a tendency to make changes that have unforeseen consequences for the user's rights, something that is not completely clear when the bills are written. True, we are prepared for these problems when it comes to the social security and that part of the jury, but I'm not aware when it comes to this part, i.e. these financial, financial, or financial aspects of finance, business status, and all that. I wonder what. A senator can teach me something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u93	V.E.G. President. Regarding the demonstration and the effect of this, I think it can truly be found by reviewing the matter with specific grounds to see what this will do for us. About that's I don't think there's any doubt, but there's a need to make time for that job. Not only do we know of committee work at the council that it takes time to get involved, to think about different questions, and to draw out different stage illustrations. That's what our work is all about. I'm not quite aware of this because I haven't had a chance to study this in particular. And from now on, it was brought in a bill to a budget song that I've been trying to study. It was taken on a different program. There's nothing wrong with you coming here all right ready for a game, let alone a few days before you can settle the situation. The effects vary depending on the age and extent of exposure between markets, i.e. Public and general. I think there are a lot of differences in the effect of this. Maybe it's all for the better. I just don't have any grounds to appreciate it right now. Then the case goes to the budget board, that's right. It's under the law on the Pension Fund of the People of the State. But now they have the right to enter a pension fund under a financial committee. Then we're on welfare committee with the social security system. Of course, the national pension system has three supports, the social security market that is being covered by one of the committees, the pension funds that the budget is going to cover, and then we have the special savings that is now in the Economic and Business Committee and are making up some kind of housing savings. [[The president calls.]] This fundamental right is now made up of three committees, not a uniform career. [[The president calls.]] It's not good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u94	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for her speech. As the subject of the matter says, this is a very broad subject, it was in many parts of its talk, one of which is almost inevitable. I want to continue from where I left off in my last answer as well as from what I came into response to the highest voice. Secretary of finance earlier today, but it's about the interaction between these diverse systems that hold together on people's pension, which, of course, is a very important matter, because it's the forwardness of people. So I agree with what. A senator says that we must be very careful. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she doesn't believe that these two matters must be discussed together, for in the form of a dog. In his speech, a senator must consider this with a generation's glasses, as well as the pair of glasses. She kept large groups of women, such as teachers, nurses, and medical staff. It is in these large groups of women that the rate of disability is highest in women who go into disability just before the end of their life. I'm asking if we're not going to have to look at this interpolation between disability, pensions, and the changes in the pension age. Whether we need to approach this collective and whether we are really under obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u95	V.E.G. President. I believe we need to examine the interaction of these different systems. In terms of changes in social security law, it is just a matter of laying up a 70 - year pension. It is being transferred from 65 to 67, so it is said to be driving another program. We were told at a presentation that this was the next step. I think it is most unfortunate that we are taking different steps in the development of these systems at the same time in different committees of the council. It has also been observed, in our global security coverage, that with an increase in pension time to 70 years, we will increase a significant rate of disability, since at every year above 60, the number of those with diseases increases and have to reduce the work or leave the labour market significantly. At that time, the energy load will increase on the pension fund. Now I don't know how it affects the fund's position whether I start at 67 years of age taking my pension or the pension money out of my pension fund. This is something that needs to be considered, an insurance math basis there. Of course, this affects a variety of pensions. As I said before, there's a lot of money in this. Somehow we have to keep our distance because we have to take one bite at a time. However, we must have the overall picture to decide which steps we can take in order to take each step.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u96	Mr. President. This thing with the elephant and the pieces and where to start biting and working, it's big and big. It will be, I think, not repeated enough how important it is and how important it is that there's a problem. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, antiquated earlier, also mentioned the unforeseen consequences. I think we need to be very alert, because in the social insurance system, people can go to half the pensions and half the pension money from the social security system, and then get involved in it in a different pensional age, so we've got a lot of different variables that need to try to control just to know how this all affects people's living. So there's no small thing that's underneath. Hv. A member of the council mentioned earlier. Now I have to admit that I have no experience with them. A member of the Parliament named the PEC and also for this pension bill in which it is scheduled to enter two different Senate Committees, and it is correct on the third issue of the third committee. Don't you think there's someone who's going through this whole thing? Doesn't there have to be some sort of linkage between committees so that we can control these Gagitic changes, which most of us agree to some extent that they are important? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u97	V.E.G. President. I certainly believe that, now that all three of the biofuel systems are under, for changes to the General, it needs to be examined overall. In terms of this work with the social security and the effects into the pension fund, the work is so when we get a bill for committees, we start by getting a presentation from the Ministry, then sending the bills out for reviews, getting visitors, and gradually, you go deeper and deeper into things. We're on the welfare board. There's a lot of things you can see in there, like with that half-money that's supposed to be taken, but it's a very nasty case, it's going to be almost unfair to do it. We began to ask ourselves, " Why are these increases being raised to 70 years? ' We have more chance of dating than other nations, are we also going to have the highest pension age? I haven't had the proper answers. Some have said to me: It's because the pension fund wanted to do so, because insurance statistics are important to them. There was no particular case in the National Union of Pension Funds when representatives from there appeared before the committee. On the other hand, when you look at the calculations, you see that with this increase in pensional age, the cost of it will go out after 10 years because of an increase in the pension age. There's no particular evidence there. [[The president calls.]] We have a bill that doesn't expect this change to happen. We just need to take some time, and we need to examine all of this together as soon as we respect all the work that has been put into it by various sources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u98	A respectable president. I'm rather positive about this case. I have felt very important that there was one consistent pension system that created the public market and the public market at the same table. But it's clear that there are challenges here, and this case needs careful coverage. One of the points mentioned is that there should be a level of pay between the public and the general market. Of course, it is very important when we are creating a shared pension system. But it is at the same time a very complicated project. Remuneration and terms may not be exactly the same. Since we have large classes that are actually only with the government, it is difficult to compare them with or find similar classes in the public market. These are often big women's classes. As already mentioned in previous talks, we have been unable to balance the salary of the sexes, in effect, with a tremendous amount of difficulty. Then you can imagine how complicated this could be. But we also have a variety of rights in some public classes, certain rights classified as remuneration, even though there is not exactly money in our pocket. How to calculate it, e.g. the ability to go to a school permit? Business security is also another quality that some classes enjoy, while others do not. A certain class of government has, e.g. a permit for a certain period of time, even for congregational or other matters. Other classes don't have it. It's a big, complicated thing. I would be very happy to see that if you really wanted to get your salary level, because it is not a matter of whether people are on the public market or in the public market, and that wages may be simpler and therefore easier to compare them together. It is sometimes complicated, and even in collective agreements there are classes, instead of negotiating to raise your salary, to negotiate other factors. Then, when we're going to level this difference, it can be really complicated. I think it's also an opportunity to go through this thing a little bit and maybe reduce the complex level. In some cases, e.g. unions agree with the government to obtain simply better pension rights. If so, we are simply rolling the ball into the future. The reason I'm very into this is mainly because we're creating a self-sustaining system. Then, of course, I'm not saying there can't be any obstacles. I saw, for example. it was noted that a change in age - related emphasis on rights could result in a long - term school event, perhaps more women. There are all these things that we need to look to. But the important thing is to create a sustainable system where, in particular, the government doesn't provide more services than it can afford at any given time, there will be no such thing as pushing the problem into the future. We know what the situation has, e.g. The B department and the A department that was supposed to be self-sustained, but isn't it? The B Company is so that if nothing were done, in 2030 many billion people would be dropped every year to live up to their responsibilities. It's a big responsibility for us not to deal with the problems right now and that's what I think people are trying to do here. So I'm going to go to this job reasonably optimistically. There is much work to be done. You've heard that there are some classes that don't agree, and I need to learn more about that, because this case is likely to go to the budget committee, and we're just discussing it in 1 Corinthians. Um... you have, like, one. Heard it with police and women. In fact, I feel sorry for the class that has composed the strike rights but does not seem to enjoy it since then. There are many things to consider, that's clear. The change, however, is expected to occur in different ways. We had an example of this. I hope that when we discuss the matter, we will find an example of how this can happen to various groups. The example that was mentioned when we received an introduction was, for example, one. that there is a difference between whether an employee who goes to the job market starts with the public and then moves to the general market after 40 or starts the public market and goes to the public sector at about 40. Then the person will earn a much better rights as the situation is today. I think we're supposed to make sure there's nothing in the system that makes people stick somewhere. We want to improve flexibility so that people can go from public to public market to public and back to public or whatever they are and never lose their rights. I think it's absolutely fundamental. And then we'll probably know a lot of people around us that if the financial funds that are in the public market are badly invested or are somehow badly affected by the fact that they are being bitten by banks. It is perfectly normal for people in general to feel that they are unjust. It's not like someone's bankmate has a huge impact on what's going on in the pensions. I know an example of a pension fund in which highly educated people have been selected in governments, and the pension funds were basically shattered in the collapse. At that time, funds are stuck with the damage, and unlike what happens in the public sector, the government does not improve anything. I will not keep this speech longer and will follow up on the case and examine it on a financial committee. We're running out of time. According to the Council of Congress, next week's work is to be completed. I think it's very sad how many things, many good things, are coming into these last days. But I'm going to let me believe that even though many of them do not run out, they're going to be gone when a new government takes over, hopefully in November.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator certainly has a hell of a lot more sense in this matter than I do. I have very little knowledge of these things, but hopefully I'll give me more time to learn about it before it's done forever. But I have to say, as it is, when it comes to this category, my concern is how it overlaps with another case, which is the social security issue. Hv. 3.m. The city of Reykjavík, in the South, said that most of the time, life - saving age was involved. But as shown in a talk given in the highest. Secretary of finance will proceed. The budget board, but I'm an emissary officer. True, we have an officer on a budget board without vote. I must say, as it is, I would have felt better that the matter would go to the welfare committee if I was going to make a deep impression on it. I'm a little worried that these matters go a little wide during the council and are not discussed in the same area. If so, we may miss out on some context that might be important. Often, it comes up only after the committee itself, and it may reveal that there is some overlap, perhaps even something important. I was scared a little in speech at any moment. A senator when she said that these things would somehow harm people or would not do so. Named why. A senator of police in this regard. It gives me a little fin. I think it's important that everything that needs to be shown who this could be the cause if it is already there. There's something else I don't know. I appreciate all that you've done. A senator can instruct us in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u100	A respectable president. I agree that if this case overlaps with any other subject, it's not good. But I think we must be able to think in terms. I've never understood why I can't hold a joint committee meeting and then be a little open to that, for example. if we make this a matter for a welfare committee to invite them to meetings and so forth. I think we just need to be open to that. We've done just that in terms of the budget when the issues are under other committees. I don't know how it's going to affect people yet. Therefore, we will call for real examples. But I can totally believe that there is something in that this system can do worse to those who later go to the workplace, to people who are longer in studies, who are women today, even in more parts, women's classes, nurses, and other such classes. They need to be considered how they deal with them. In the same way, as one senator puts it, this may conflict with matters that are part of a welfare committee. It is also the loan Fund of Icelandic students and the way things should be done for students. It may well be that he somehow cut into this matter too. This is huge. But I find this interesting. I'm so glad it's at least come to this place. The case has long been in the car, and there has been an enormous amount of work behind it. We need to look at this with extreme criticism and to try to improve it. But I have to admit, I think there's a system change in the pension system. In fact, it's amazing that the government can now put 100 billion into the system. In seven years it may not be possible, so we cannot argue about it for many years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to make sure that this is a good thing when we get it out of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is true if it is assessed from the subject of the bill and the talks that have been discussed in the past. of the highest. Secretary of finance, that there is considerable work to do, which is, of course, good and especially important when it comes to this case. However, it does not help when we approach elections and the end of Congress to get a case that is overworked, but it is also an overwhelming work. This means that it is more that members of the Parliament have to enter if they are not in the category already, which is certainly the case with what is right here. More time is needed to cover more material. And the more it's worked, the more we need to consider, even if the results of the various groups and experts involved are consistent with the political goals each time, which are not necessarily obvious, let alone when so little is left of the council and so many major issues are being discussed. Hv. A senator entered another account, i.e. when people come into the system. There is another connection that we have freely discussed in the social security committee. I feel that it emphasizes that this matter really needs to be discussed in both places. Some of these are very similar concerns, comparable challenges. Although this is a feature of a particular system, see financial foundations, it is such that if it affects people's rights, it must also belong to a welfare committee. Without any formal suggestion here, at least not without consulting with other non-pontists, I wondered if the case would also need to be discussed. The financial welfare committee can then take into account the opinion issues that arise regarding the welfare of all of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u102	A respectable president. Yeah. The senator's words are true. I didn't realize in my previous answer that, of course, other committees often ask for opinions. That would be perfectly appropriate here. I think it's mostly about equalizing pension rights and equal pay between the public and the general system. That's a big deal. To some extent, I understand the concern we've been concerned about the fact that we're going to raise the pay of public employees so that they can match the pay in the public market. But can we somehow be sure that it will succeed? Have we not been trying to balance the wages of the sexes for a long time? The fact that unions, public and public markets, have come together and have gone to this work, and are content with it in much of the way, I feel that this case has been well worked. Of course, you're supposed to be critical of the situation, but even if it comes from these governments at the time, I'd like to maintain my optimism and say, " Let's start winning this thing. ' What's bad is that the government throws in a lot of big business and hasn't yet told us which matters should be first. That's what makes me uncomfortable. If it was just this case and there were two others, we might be left alone in it, but we have so much to blame me for being the senator's sort of lost hands. I don't know where to start about all that. It would be a very good step if the government would now call us to a meeting and say, " This is what we want to do. ' If it's one of them, we'll be done with this. But for all the other things that are also under, I just don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u103	President. Hv. One senator, who is probably right and has been told many times today, says that this work has been done for many years and is an agreement between the labour market parties. Yet, it is primarily a trust fund of government employees, and somehow it is to try to balance the salary in the state, in the public, and in the general labour market. But then we have the final responsibility to do this in one week. Today, the work is often compared at the Allied Assembly of Iceland and, for example, in neighboring lands. We would like to aim for other Norwegian countries. It contains e.g. has made much less changes in the council of primes that come in than in this country. Perhaps the preparation of this bill is a little by nature of what is known there, and we should thank it. I still think it's pretty steep and I'd like to know if the Senator doesn't share it with me. We have the future, for future retirements, to enter into this in one week, because eventually the whole body will be responsible. It's no good then to say, "This was the agreement of the labour market and came in here." It's the Council that's responsible. It's a little steep to make us do this in a week, don't you think?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u104	A respectable president. I agree completely with it. A senator also says this with the way we get things into the council, how well and how badly they can be done. It is as if some bills do not even have a proper plot or take into account all kinds of things before they come to us. This is precisely different from many cases, for there has been an enormous amount of work to be done. But it doesn't change it, like a cot. A senator says that we are responsible, and we also need to call for references and examine them from all sides. I don't know if we're gonna finish this, but that's the way I see it, we're gonna start working this thing and we're gonna do what we can. That work will never be in vain because the next government will probably continue the case. So voters can ask the groups about it: Is this the case that you intend to continue with? I imagine there's a thing in society that there's a will for this. We at the budget board just got the money. We have a public shopping problem that we will be able to complete. The report is now out of our hands. But like a dog. A senator knows all committees enough to do. It's been a few days, four days, until the council is over. If we were to finish this case, it would be quite difficult. As I said in the antiquities of the day, it would be a great help if the government or the government would reveal something about what people are thinking, which case we should stress on the council. We've got way too much under here. But I'm pretty sure that whether we can finish this or win something, this case will be held up by the next government. I'd be very surprised if I didn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u105	President. I agree with the senator on that. I hope, for the most part, I'd like to say, a respectable president, that men have the right mind and don't even think it'll be over in a week. On the other hand, I believe that the matter will be recorded during the next term. It is not a matter of life. There was a discussion earlier on which committees discussed the subject. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson emphasized that he felt the need to discuss it on a welfare committee and in the context of the social security bill. I'm not quite sure about that. A social security committee is discussed. It's about the Department of Pension of Public Services. This isn't all about us. The management committee will discuss this. I don't agree with what was said in the case of the highest. Ministers that at some point we don't have to think about social security for some group of people because people will have earned their pension rights. I don't agree with that. Of course, things are getting more public insurance. Social security is supposed to be for all of us, but not for anyone who is, if I allow myself to say so, out of society. Social security is for all people. Besides, there are some who don't have to use them to the top. But that's why I'm against the fact that it's a special place for the entire nation. [[The president calls.]] It's about the State Department of Pension, and we're not all its employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u106	A respectable president. I may as well be about to quit the council because I always agree with the last speaker. I thought why. A senator gives fine reasons why a health committee should have nothing to do with the matter. On the other hand, I think it's really painless when it's called by the other committee's opinion. The committee may consider a little whether it counts as a reason for doing so. There is nothing worse than getting more information. With regard to this and many other major matters, I would like to remind you of the importance of the fact that when ministers take over the wind, they take priority in matters and priorities in their schemes. We're getting a case that the Ministers have had three years to win. This case is not necessarily one of them, but if we're talking about it coming into a lot of big cases, it's better to recall that the first year and all kinds of disorderly issues were spent in debt. The first matter was to cancel raising taxes during the stay that the previous government had decided. I don't think they've had their priorities straight. Now it is time for the government to decide for itself to shorten the terms period, and then it must live with and prioritize what it will do. I'm sorry, this case comes down to all other issues, very late in. I'm not optimistic that we can finish it. If we're gonna stay here for a week, it's clear we don't. So the question is, are we going to be here for the election? What's the rush? Will they be local senators? It may even be difficult for men to ask, to get the Minister for unprepared inquiries, and at the council's work, to get senators to be here to accept inquiries if you wish to do so. We're in a lot of time here. It's not good. But this government has had three years. She could have done much better in those three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u107	A respectable president. When I began studying at the fine school of Hamrahömund, I think, from that very hour on, students from school began to play sports at Vals' gymnasium at the other side of the gang, which was then in rather a grueling condition and far away from school. This brought much criticism and led to the development of one thousand students of the school to a mass strike that I believe lasted for two days, and the school authorities did not know how to deal with it. After a lengthy negotiation, however, the school authorities abandoned their plans to leave their high school students in gymnasium, while the students agreed that no comment would be made that students who came to school from school from then on had to do physical exercise. Thus, in time, all students at school were able to do physical exercise, but those at school right there, when it was due to be introduced, were spared. It's not quite easy for me to think of this little unholy deal when I saw this agreement on the pensions, because some of them seem like at least a man. be obliged. Of course, a person always had certain moral doubts about this agreement made in ancient MH. What you are concerned about in this agreement - which is remarkable and I believe it is important for the council to look at it with a positive mind and to consider whether it is really the important step taken - is to finance the rights of those generations who are now sitting at the table, perhaps our generation, so that those generations will well escape from this showdown, while the rights of the generations that follow will be further lost. So it would be a bit related to the M.H. Convention that the following would have to go to gym class -- even if it's a positive thing to do in gym class, I'm not saying, it's good for all men. That must be what we must primarily look at: Are there any generations to follow? Of course, it may also be that those generations who have now earned these rights have been granted, and that is whether it is so that future generations will have to pay them, if not in their less legal rights, simply by higher tax returns. That's what I think that must be the biggest concern of all when you run this bill. We've seen international developments in this being, and the council recently received a very interesting report on the position of the young generation, to which we members of the Union called after spring. There are many indications that it lives, not only in Iceland, but in many lands, for the first time, under less economic conditions, when it is taking its first steps in adulthood, but that of the parents'generation. We have not seen in the past a general rule that children in their early teens are less affordable than their parents did when they were setting up homes and family. If that is happening not only in one area but in many areas, it is a serious development. It's obviously happening in the housing business. There is no question that these conditions are worse than they have been for the generations before. Similarly, the share of young people in employment income is lower than previously, i.e. They simply have less money. There is also reason to worry that such things as growth reform and child - rearing are generally not as powerful as we would like to be. This gives us even more reason to be concerned about the situation of this generation. It is not as good as their pension rights to be inferior to the parents'generation. I'm sure it'll look good. Economic and business committees to see how these changes affect so-called generation accounts. The ocean said this general warning then, of course, it has been a rivalry for many, and our people at the Ministry of finance were working on it at the time, trying to work out this project, which is financing a substantial amount of pension bonds established by the A Company. It is beyond the reach of joy that this has been accomplished. Of course, it's the agreements with the requirements that, in part, create the economic conditions for this now possible. So on March 12, 2012, the then greater part of the bill was moved to a law forbidding the money of broken - up cells from the land. The program continued to talk about how they could be released from great libraries, allowing Iceland to have an economicly independent and strong share in it. This is now, and it is an opportunity for this year to deposit a considerable amount of money, and it is important to take advantage of the unique opportunity that the Kingdom Fund has made during the present year. It is also a joy that so many unions, with so many interests, have come to an overall meeting on how to resolve this matter. It certainly was not an easy solution, and there is good reason to thank the many sources who have come to process this big and complex matter. At the same time, however, certain unions have disagreed with the conclusion. I would like to make it clear that although this agreement was an agreement between organizations, it is reasonable that the committee, which is involved in the discussion, would call a representative of the unions who have expressed themselves in agreement with this agreement and who will present their views on the matter. There are unions that concern us with the great Icelanders, welfare services and security in our country. We're here to talk, if I understand correctly, police officers, firemen, ambulances, nurses' union and medical personnel, maybe. More communities that have overlooked me or have recently joined this group. These are such key classes in our country that it is absolutely necessary to get their point of view and to examine in particular whether there are any factors that specifically depend on monitoring, or rights associated with such requirements as this agreement, or at least Try to determine if there is something that these communities share and cause them to fail to agree with this conclusion, whether they could possibly be met with the comments made by these communities. It is extremely desirable, if possible, to balance the pension rate for public employees on the other hand and for a general labour market. This makes it easier for both the public and the private markets to transport people. It is also a requirement for equality. It causes suspicion in those who work in the general labour market that the remuneration rates of public employees are somehow better, even if public employees and government authorities explain that the terms of the convention, the rates for the work itself, are inferior to public - than the public market. If so, it is much better that this is both beneficial and relevant, it is simply for similar jobs, whether in a public market or in a private market. On the other hand, there is reason to be concerned about the intention of improving the ideal class of unions that follow this agreement, that such romantic wishes, lie, and are not involved. It is essential that this should work for a certain transfer in a certain period of time that particular classes take place in excess of others. We have often seen such uninhabitable plans. Therefore, it is important to build on the outcome of this at the council to try to trust in the application of these schemes as best possible so that those involved can have the greatest confidence that they will succeed. At the same time, it is important to consider whether the separation between the pension reserves of various public people and the pension funds on a public market is unnecessary, whether this should give further opportunity to manipulate our pension system, to combine funds, to make them more efficient units, to reduce their operating costs, so that as much of the funds they have can go to the thing they were founded on, to pay a pension, but not to spend money at any kind of operating cost. We, as officers of the past, have talked to the idea of a single pension fund for all the people of the country. I think that because of themselves, they can now be something more, but I think that they're way too many of us now, and unfortunately there's a lot of waste that follows the number of funds that are now fired and full of reasons to think that they'll trust even more fully the rights of the funds companies by making the most of their operations and striving to ensure a direct effect on their management, perhaps not by choosing the whole administration of their pensions than at least ... thatcreatemates are allowed to vote for a few direct agents themselves in the management of the funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm wondering what. The senator, and the officers with whom he is, to have one pension fund for all. I think it's an interesting idea. However, it has often been criticized here and said that Iceland's pension funds have become overexploited, overexploited in the economy, and that this is not necessarily an desirable arrangement. Then I wondered: " If we had one pension fund for all the people of the country who should care for this commitment and needs for us all, would this not be a pension fund that would have been such an intervention in the Icelandic economy that it would be double in how it should go up without a radical change in how the economy works? ' Can the economy tolerate a single pension fund for the entire population? Is it really economically reasonable that one huge pension fund that handles the needs of all the people of the country is there? Is that not an overexhaustment of financial authority? Does that not mean, then, that it would be the fund that would be a vast source of power in the Icelandic system? That's what I'm thinking. I find the idea of having one system for everyone interesting, but I don't quite understand how this would be accomplished. But it would certainly be more fun to talk about it than any of these different arrangements we're talking about here, trying to figure out a solution of hundreds of billions as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think questions are why. A senator is perfectly normal. We must bear in mind, Icelanders, that we are only 0.3 million people. There is simply no basis for running all this amount of pension money that we do for so few people. There may be a point of view with the need for some variety or competition, perhaps three, four fundes, or something like that. But there is no basis for more than two, three, or four employment companies in all of the largest sectors of the country and for the pension fund. We do not have 30 oil companies or insurance companies or business banks. It is simply too small to allow someone to be in the business of acting in this way. When we talk about large funds, we can only look to our cousins of the Norwegians who have shown tremendous discipline in their collection of funds and the fruitage of their pension fund. Of course, the Norwegian oil reserve is a Norwegian pension fund, and all of it is collected in one place. This means that there is an enormous amount of discipline in the investments of the money and its fruitage policy. I think we certainly had the privilege of increasing the resources, discipline, and monitoring of Iceland's pension funds as much as we did for their investments just a few years ago when huge sums of money were ignored.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u110	A respectable president. I have doubts about such a system, i.e. if there was one trust fund. I think we're right next door. A senator that there is no room for more than three, four companies on this market in such a small country, perhaps the banking system. But then you have to ask yourself, " Is it not best for me to think of Pension bonds more clearly so that they are not locked away in this small economy? ' That's what I was wondering. You can hear everything around here that the pension fund buys a lot of real estate, they pick real estate bills, especially when the money's stuck within the budget. We get older, and there's going to be more and more problems, as we see from the social security that's going to treat it. The welfare committee. The problem continues to grow, the problem that we need to provide for people who are too old to work, apart from those people who just deserve to enjoy our lifetime, as we peers certainly agree. I think we must need a system that is either an overwhelmingly important economic system for property and just the economy in general that I think is not good for, and an even less insurmountable one fund. Hv. A senator may be more referring to one system, I'm not going to go any more into it, I'm not sure that I can understand it correctly if I'm going to say it just the way it is. Then it is the question of whether we should look beyond ourselves and try to ensure future ties abroad where markets are more stable and more affordable than in Iceland. Is that not the case? That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u111	A respectable president. The Norwegian oil reserve, which we mentioned earlier, is in all respects, I suppose, by their investment outside the Norwayns, at least. to a large extent. This is because it is a temporary income, perhaps for decades, that the Norwegians consider a reason to do this. Hence, it may be wise to do so, depending on the amount of money it contains. A popular opinion now is not to take the money of pensions out of the country and increase them there. Still, I have been amazed in the discussion that the young generation is invited to do so, not object. While the world's highest real - life interest rates are in Iceland and the apartment loans of young people are calling for a much higher interest every month in them than in any other country around them, why would the young people agree that the amount of loans has been removed from the country to continue living in Iceland? It is the interests of the old people to move the money out of the country so that there is a limited amount of money available here and growing ahead of them. The interests of the young generation seem to be quite obvious in the fact that the old people are not allowed to take their money out of the country and thus keep their actual interest in the land. Rather, they should be here to finance new generations' houses in an ideal setting. This, which I would have thought was one of the biggest political economic issues in Iceland, is not discussed by any man.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u112	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. It was very extensive, and what really stung me was already there. A senator spoke of sports in MH. It's a good metaphor because it's how we're going to keep things going. In Germany, the pension fund is transpiration funds or a flow system where the money placed in the pension fund at any given time is for the pension of those who are in pensions at the same time. What is suggested here is, in fact, a collection of pensions, a collection of pension systems, where each one is expected to live under himself in the future. There are defects and benefits to the two systems. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it is possible that it would be better to have a simple flow system in which the pay and contributions to the pensions were lower, evaluated at any given time, and that it would be a social agreement to see about each other at the time we live, instead of trying to save in the future. I'm going into my pension fund, I'm not 67 years old after 40 years, I'm 67 years old after 41 years. For me, that's a very long time. I ask: Is it not better to try to think about the present rather than to think so far ahead? That's my question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u113	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think this is supposed to be a combination of these things. I think social security should be for everyone and be a flow system, but collections in pensions are to be added. I'm thinking that while much of the pension system is being run over in Germany, we also have a large and powerful collection system, such as Allianz. In Germany it is, in fact, that the German pension fund owns about half of all the housing, I think I'll handle it correctly, running more or less as tenants. Maybe that's what's been happening in the Pension Systems both in Iceland and elsewhere. I think there's too much effort in the pension fund to try to fight from that to some market deal. The pension system has financed loans to an apartment house house in the country. That's about two of you. Billions of the Pension Fund. Home in the country owes you two. Billions. It is a political and social decision how much the interest of our own pension funds is going to do to our mortgages because it affects us in different times of our lives. I have believed that we have been overemphasis for the young generation and that this factor has primarily to be revised. But in terms of the question, I think we should have a mixture of flow systems in our social security and then an additional collection.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u114	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think that to a large degree, I agree. A senator about this, would normally be the best thing to have a mixture. But isn't this bill really the step we need to take? The current biofuel structure in the RLSR is rather absurd, it must only be recognized, so it is quite time we re-evaluate the assumptions of how this is financed and also what people's pension rights are, because there is something special that individual classes have it much better than anyone else. I'm asking if it's not those who get the most out of the present system that will have to take a degree, because they get so much more than a person who ran his own business all his life, such as. My grandparents, who are now on the insurance system, and that's not good enough. Overall, this is what we're looking at. A candidate's step toward correcting a certain discrepancy that has developed in the system and is actually created by the system itself? We must not forget that we are creating a pension fund, our pension fund. Not everyone has that privilege. Is this an equation or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u115	A respectable president. I think it's an equation. I believe, however, that our pension system is sadly characterized by too much inequities, the examples we have for ourselves about that are far too strong. But back to this with the collection fund of pension rights and a spill fund. After the collapse, the pension fund was more and less nationalized. In fact, they changed in a relatively short period of time through a flow fund, but they may have felt that way because of the very nature of their possessions, they were naturally just debts made out of public authorities in Iceland. What's the difference between a pension fund that claims to have money for its future commitments and what it has is just a bond of state and country, or that it has a fund that claims to have the government's commitment to pay money in the future? In fact, it is just a flood of funds for the future, so that, as we discussed in antiquities earlier, only property must be involved in anything but public paper or foreign property. It may be asked, " How wise is it for the Kingdom to have its head over it? ' Was the State meant to be with an apartment loan fund, which involved the loan of the pensions and then taking in 200 to 300 billion losses in that business? Why are the pension funds just not to care for their housing loans directly for their own bankmates? You ask yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u116	Mr. President. This is certainly one of the bigger cases that have come on our bodies during this council and even if more council members were taken. It's kind of a big case for two reasons. On the one hand, it's because the figures in it are very large, it's taking steps in the economy up to 100 billion plus/minus, and then, of course, it's a big deal and it's been a long time in our pensions and one of the big future questions about the pension system in our country. Of course, it is a cause for rejoicing as far as the conclusion has reached after years of conversation and effort to achieve the table and to coordinate the pension rights, the pension rights of the country, and to make the system more uniform than ever. Those who have long observed these issues know of the natural tensions that have often existed between the general labour market and the general pension fund on the other hand and the public labour market and the public pension funds. There have long been discussions about harmonizing these ideas and making one pension fund for all the people of the country. It is not in itself a matter of whether a pension fund is one, two or more. Rather, it is the pension rights and rights process, which is the big issue in that subject. I would like to make it clear, however, if I recall the following questions and particularly some quick payment on the subject that, of course, I am a firm supportist that at the national constant pension rights and then the work market and then the society of the uniform rights process so that the status of people is equal to all, regardless of whether they are in a public or public labour market, they will have no significant effect, whether they move between or during the course of their life. Everyone must see that this is a huge improvement for everyone, for those in the labour market, for those involved, but also for the employers and the job and the public. In 2009, in the matter of so - called stable agreements, many of which were successful, people agreed to put strength in this work. I watched her for the next few years, trying to help her get the job done, but the conclusion that it was always more reasonable to give time than to drive things over. This has also happened in the past. Secretary of finance, he's given this time for over three years, and an agreement was reached by the dawns. What a milestone that is! I think you can say and say yes with the highest degree. The secretary of the economy, who hopefully isn't far behind when I talk so beautiful about him, of course, it's a huge deal for Iceland if we succeed in building a full-finished and coordinated pension rights system for the entire population. We have strong material in it, although it was an unsolved project like this one that is involved in the split-weapon market and certain future commitments that we still have to make. V.E.G. Ministers mentioned, and I enjoyed it, that the menu companies do not do much with the way different countries stand to a stronghold in their building up and setting up for future pensions. Now it's like Iceland that we're in the world's top row together, and that hasn't really changed much, the Netherlands and Switzerland, we have the highest share of pure property compared to the gross domestic product of property to pay off pensions, about 150 to 160 percent I believe it is with us right now. The Netherlands and Switzerland have been in a similar area. Norway, of course, with its oil reserve, which they other strands view as a retirement fund, although it is the primary investment reserve for removing the oil supply from the road and not turning into the Norwegian economy and setting the future, e.g. When the intake of oil decreases, you can balance it with shock. We calculated it sometime for fun that the Icelanders had more money in pensions and it was soon after they crashed, soon after they had been hit, yet Iceland had more money on you than Norway in its Norwegian oil fund. This is ignored very often when the national situation is compared. That's what I was feeling, just as I did my present peak. The Secretary of Economics and Economics said so. I used it, e.g., pointed food companies and investors on this 2011 when we were on a big presentation session in the direction that the state published a bill on a foreign market for the first time for about seven years, or five, six years, 2011. I helped people to see how we were in this area compared with other nations, which, in my opinion, were too high a credit rating because of a great built - in weakness in that subject, so you don't talk about nations that are in babble economic distress like the Greeks. I'm not going to go to that sad story here, but it's like... one thing that is very difficult for them and that is that they have virtually no pension fund, very reserved for certain groups. The land as it is practically without any money in the future is a retirement age of over 55 years. You can imagine what that example looks like. The United States is here to create a crisis there, if all of it were taken to a book. They have enormous financial commitments to soldiers, public employees, and other such. [[Up front.]] Yes, yes, and more people. I'm sure it's lifting up. That's why I've always given it a good step-up and talked about how it was a good way for Iceland to get on that track in 1970 to start building museums instead of betting on a flow system. In view of the conclusion, I understand that those who look at their positions and those who are already inside the room consider this to be a good conclusion. It's mainly because the government is now exasperating on funds all it takes to straighten out the A department. In fact, it's a generous conclusion on the part of the State, but I believe that there were people who often agreed that there would be some mixture to go, an increase in pension age, even the higher paid rates, and then the state would bring something into the bag. Here, the state is angry with this, and it also does well with its societies, taking an obligation of some 20 billion dollars. I understand, therefore, that those who are looking at their positions and already inside the nest think it's pretty good. It is especially with care funds and pension funds taken into account that no one is missing anything about the change, those inside today. The situation looks very different to the future. I think I'll wake up the worry, and no doubt it's one of the factors in that four large companies in public employees and, for example, in the same way. An independent society like the Society of Nurses disagrees with this conclusion. This may be because there is more to the future than present and/or that these groups do not consider themselves to be enough of the problem. Of course, this needs to be considered. It can't be the intention of exasperating this enormous issue through the General Assembly without everyone being able to be comfortable with their views. We can be careful that we do not make mistakes when we are pleased, for of course we are tempted to lock this conclusion away after this agreement. But it's not gonna happen either if the council is integrated in working out this case well, it's just gonna have to decide if it's acceptable as to how to get it done right now. So, the A Company is treated this way. But this is followed by many other cases, some of which have been mentioned, such as that here to raise the pension age by two years. That is consistent. There is a smaller gap between the public and the general market, just when there is a trend to rise, and in social security laws, however, a month before it increases the pension age from 67 to 70 years. Unquestionably, there are many big questions regarding all these matters. I mention in the process that much too little attention has been given to the fact that individual groups, different professions, differ greatly when the time comes for the rise in pensional age. What about the hard working classes that are very worn out already in view of their current retirement years? If we add three years to fish farmers, walled men, would it not be possible that the incidence of disability would grow rapidly? Of course, we know other castes, such as sailors, policemen, and those who have felt that they should have a flexibility in order to start a pension earlier because of the heavy strain of work and wear. This needs to be considered. It is inevitable to investigate how this applies to individual groups, etc. The social security and pension funds need to be carefully studied too, but this gives us reason to look at things there. V.E.G. Ministers say, and quite rightly, there is no great philosophy, that this structure of the pension fund and the increased payment from them relieved the government of the social security system. This needs to be thought of two things. On the one hand, it is the spacetime we are on. The pension system is still 15 to 25 years away, and it can be said to everyone in understanding that it is far enough since 1998 that everyone has paid off all his income in a pension fund. But it is not until a few more years that it has, in effect, become overwhelming. Let us not forget that until 1995,1998, when the last big change may be said to take place after a long process, it is not until all are required to pay off all their earnings. Some were in the past outside of the pension fund, and they had paid only from their day - to - day jobs. Now, this is counting on a growing weight in the system each year, and it's going to have to be the main way in which people are entering a retirement age that has paid off of all their incomes in a pension fund for the vast sum of their lives. Still, it will not be so that everyone will be in that position. Hence, we need to consider that context too. Clearly, two groups will not be in the position of having a decent pension out of a pension fund after 10, 25 years. These will be the natural ones who have never made it to the labour market, the poor. It will be those who have lived and lived and worked abroad for a period of their life, and after experiences, they will develop a pension right elsewhere and will be able to take it home, but not necessarily. There will be one more group, Mr. President, who is growing into our system over the next few years, and there are people of foreign origin who move here and into the labour market or in mid - age community, and therefore will never reach up except for half of the pension and who are not entitled to pay from a social security system because they have a so - called farm ratio with history and men making up right there, according to the number of years they have had a legal home in the country. This group is growing. That's why the old model won't be what they once thought, that it was a unique community where everyone will have a full pension course and that's where the social security system will be covered. It won't be like that. We will need a powerful social security system to back up the less justified ones if we are not going to have the standard for living that is entering the retirement year in the coming years. That's why we'd have to be able to make a good deal of time to review this case, review the big social security bill, look at this, peer into the future context. It's kind of chilling in me, I have to say that I don't think I'm a workaholic man, Mr. President, but it's a little chill in me if you're going to land these big system changes both, the new social security laws and this basic change in pensions, within a few days. I just have to say, if you want it, you'll find that you've got enough opinion. I'm all prepared to do so that we try to cross-blownize these important issues and do them as well as far as we can, and that's the way it goes, that's the way it is. Then it would have been desirable if the highest. A financial minister would have given us only a clearer picture of two very floating in these materials. It's first, how do you get paid or reimbursed by the big business people who are going to take their money on account of the A League, make it up to the state? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How will the payment be given to over 90 billion dollars from the state? [[The president calls.]] How will it be arranged precisely, but perhaps 1/3: 1/3? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator gave the talk that was informative, as it were in advance. I think there's a chance that we can get these things together at this council, especially because we haven't got any priority on the government so that we can't prioritize our work in harmony with it, a problem that we in my classes constantly wrestle, not knowing what tests we're going to learn at home, let alone whenever, it's intolerable. Enough about that, it's not a what. A senator's fault. I'm just as worried as what. A senator of the social security system in the future when it has become clear that this will not be the way they planned it would be in the first place, assuming that society would be very uniform for a very long time. This is because different groups of people acquire different rights as time goes on. I am deeply concerned, as is true in general, with the way society responds to such large and dramatic changes in the makeup of a nation like ours, and I think of most nations as well and will continue to do. Then I wondered if the next step is not to consider some form of international cooperation on social security. I'm throwing it out because I know why. A senator, who knows the seminary very well and has spent a very long time at the General Assembly, would like to ask if something like that is practical or what the first steps would be if he wanted to consider doing so. I'm alone and afraid that if there's a very clear difference between those social groups that have these rights and those who don't have them, it will cause the conflict that we want to avoid if possible. All I can think of is an international cooperation on social security. What other means, if any, could we go if not that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u118	V.E.G. President. I thank Mr. President who was able to arrange for me just in the end. Sometimes I get to tell the Northeast standard or something, so I understand a president. With regard to the handling of these big cases, it is somewhat reversed because, to a degree, it would be good for a member of the Senate to do this with an overall perspective, but it is not. Now we have that position on the social security issues that have a lot of overlap into this and the other side of the welfare committee, and this case has the highest priority. The secretary of finance to be referred to a financial committee, not to the Economic and Business Committee, which has, in general, been the case. It's kind of messy, isn't it? Maybe some of this is due to the pressures and the work position, this is a shot to the budget because the economic and business committee is loaded with projects. Now I have a great deal of respect for a financial committee, and this is not said in any disparaging sense toward her, but, of course, it has not been of particular interest to these matters lately. Regarding the future and the situation. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son rightly points to my meditation, and we must be very careful. We cannot draw into the future a group that will be judged to be much inferior. Yes, international cooperation, e.g. Norse cooperation is important. One thing that helps is that if you have worked part of your life in one country and a part of your life in another, you can easily transfer a pension right from one country to another. But there are problems in that subject, even in the North countries, and despite all efforts to reduce the barrier, we are always dealing with problems resulting from different taxation, different rights, and age limits, and so on. I have one big dream about what was best in the world, that from 16 years of age, everyone in pension money would be paid when they reached the age of 67, 70, or what it will be. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u119	A respectable president. Of course, there is one way to cope with the problem in any of these groups. Another thing that I have come up with is that individuals who may be late to building rights simply need to build them up faster and to contribute more. On the contrary, people don't have time with them, which is so important for long - term money marketrs, such as building a pension right or that I would think. I agree with you, too. A senator tells me that I feel uncomfortable with the way this group of cases goes to different committees. In fact, I talked only about it earlier, and others mentioned the point. As long as the social security business is up to it, it's up to you. The welfare committee, and then there is another issue that is also linked to this issue. A financial and business committee, see what gives some people a chance to use their money to pay on mortgages. It also matters in this regard, especially if we are going some novel ways to build for the future and even if it is a home that we all need, however, it is still relevant. I wondered if it's just about time that in the near future there will be a panel on this issue on its own, i.e. how we react to the problem that the team over the age of work and that problems become so characteristic of the future community that it should really be a special Senate committee that keeps their arms around it and copes with them at all times. I think it's a group of paintings that smell so many that it can't be torn all over the council, as it really is. I wonder what. A senator feels that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u120	The president must now begin to correct himself permanently, has already identified this incident. A senator so many times to play here in the hole. Had by means of penouts, he confused himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u121	Thank you for being a respectable president. Although sometimes it has been said that I would be transferred from a ballot, the conclusion has always been that I've stayed to the north, and I intend to do so for a while. [[Up front.]] Well, first of all, about the job, it would be, like, a what? paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter has mentioned yesterday, a typical major case that the council would have to take a good time to discuss and would be a good idea for forming an intermediate committee. Thus, it was won in 1995,1998, when the last major change came in, that was the result of collective agreements by the end of 1995, which set up the issue. It was worked here for two years on committees, then on the council and on a panel and another Senate committee, and it went into effect 1998 if I know that story correctly. For other things that change to the future. I mention this idea again, as if nothing new, and maybe not just mine, it would be best if everyone's pension process was equal in their working years whether they were in a job market or not. Those who need community support for further development, disability, and others like that, those who spend part of their lives studying - the system would be designed to be paid for them in a pension fund, they developed a pension due. For the State, this was the case when there was no necessarily worth more, but the big difference would be that everyone would be the same in retirement. If we don't get the hang of ourselves here, they'll also be the worst pensioners who've had the hardest days of their lives. It is so unfair to leave hard labor for low wages, or moving abroad, or so much as to spend the upper years under adverse circumstances. Then there is the right thing to do. A senator said that certain groups, sailors, farmers, walls, police, had to be faster, so that they could start a pension without their present rights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is a need to build faster work done with special contracts for those groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u122	Mr. President. What an interesting discussion! Especially would I be interested to hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon explains more about the calculations behind the claim that going the way he described it, that the state paid the pavilion fees for certain non-employee groups, remembered when the state is not paid anything more. If so, I feel that there is a way that should be examined very carefully. Hv. A member of the council expressed some doubts about the right thing to do. The legislature committee, specifically stated that speaking it on the part of him was neither a glue nor a scavenger. I have to agree with what. A senator, I feel that more of the legal committees haven't exactly been able to demonstrate by their actions that sending the case there is a very successful check. What I wanted, however, to say is that I am far more positive in this matter than I am. Senator, I think the goal is very good. I think what they're going to do with this, trying to balance between the general and the official labour market, both the pension rights and then, as is a declared goal in the parties' declaration, to balance the salary in the next ten years. This is a wonderful goal, one of the things people would want to do for a long life in politics. I can so share with who. A senator is concerned that the matter might be taken care of for a brief period of time. He's been the secretary of finance. It is possible to resolve matters such as this without allowing, for example, all members of the body and professions involved in a wording with the members of the Parliament and to give their opinion on this matter. the four colleagues who have described the opposition and union of nurses that I seemed to express outright opposition perhaps primarily on the basis of lack of communication? [[The president calls.]] But can such a big matter be taken through the council without any groups being allowed to say it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u123	Mr. President. Time will not allow us to go further into these speculations about a different system in which pension pay would be built for all groups, including those not in a labour market on a certain lifetime or even for the rest of our lives. [[What about the promise of...?]] But if we use simple examples of a person, a young invalid, who will not even enter the workforce. What would simply happen is that if the state added the disability pension money to the pension fund and that pension fund is productive, then when the invalid comes of retirement age, his pension savings are in the bag and replaces it with the need for the state to continue through a social security system to make a decent contribution to his not having a pension. In one way or another, the standard of living for those who do not have their own resources to be decently saved, microlouds, middle - aged people who do not have full rights in pensions or social security, etc. No, it's hard to deal with this kind of big deal. First, it is so big that a person must have a good conviction that he is being done right. Secondly, it's so closely linked to elite groups, it's actually so intertwined with the terms they own, that those who don't share in the agreement are also negotiaters, they also have their own accord. It is impossible to overlook the fact that not everyone is behind this. It is large and large groups that can take their rights and apply them. Of course, the Kingdom must realize that it is extremely important to listen to all the views and to try if solidarity is possible. We need to talk with those who make comments, have a problem. Is there anything you can do to get everyone on board? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u124	Then I'll ask why. A senator's opinion of the following: Does he believe that there are any odds when such a broad agreement has been achieved that it would be damaged or damaged, even if it waited for three, four, five months, or would take the time needed for such a normal pregnancy? Does he believe that this would lead to failure, even if a government was to be replaced? I don't think so, not all of it. In fact, I think that such big issues often improve with being under more than one government. I'd love to hear what you're thinking. It's for a senator. The question I would like to deliver is, How do you feel about it? A senator's consequences of the interaction between these changes and the raising of his pension by two years? What does that mean for the future? Is it true that it might lead to the fact that the future generations will have a relative lower share of the rights they earn than we or our peers, our peers who are in the systems as they are today?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u125	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks such extensive questions that trying to cope with them is like a man. First, because he spoke of his being even more positive toward this bill than I was, he may have missed the very beginning of my speech in which I took it exactly and rejoiced that it was an important goal that was set up there, and I am, of course, referring to the structure of a uniform right - to - start system for all the people of the land of pensions. It is an enormous and important issue, so the border between the public system will be destroyed as much as possible. It is the rights and rights that matter everything, not the question of whether these are one or two or more pensions. That's why it's about to set the perfect goal of equalizing the pension rights. This is a happy conclusion, for up until now, some have even spoken in the other direction, that it would just have to take away the pension rights of public employees so that they might be able to general employment markets somewhere in the middle of the world. Now it's just settled. We're going to take the entire labour market up to this level and try to level the amount we earn, all of which are extremely important. Then there's the big question about the future. I said exactly in my speech, I understand that those who look at these things in the present and for themselves and who are in the room today feel comfortable because nobody is to be missed. But this is much more of a question about the future. Of course, they take on the prolongation and the fact that the state is no longer responsible behind the A-U.S.R in the sense it has been, that although it should be sustainable, the State is committed, under measures, to guarantee human rights and to a higher level of pay, if necessary. If I get it right, this responsibility will be gone. After that, the system must stand on its own feet. Hence, it is understandable that those who may have doubts about how the balance is going so well as when they hope to achieve it in six or ten years are agitated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u126	A respectable president. First, I'm going to talk about Šrealismann to see how the treatment in this case can be done at the council, and actually only about the fact that the situation here has become rather typical. You expect to finish this case, that's probably why it's presented here, without preconceiving any priority on the issues established by the government during this council and as a result in this election period. It makes it more difficult for others to prioritize on what subjects they should study. I often like it because you don't know what test you're going to take and when the test will be held. When we discuss one huge issue after another, there is an intolerable situation. It's an unpleasant situation. It has to be changed in the future, not because it's uncomfortable as it is, but because it affects the potential of members of Congress to study things properly, especially young members of the council, such as those here that have not been for a long time at a council, and as a result, it has not had much time to study these huge issues, as is true. I think it's important to keep that in mind when we handle such a big issue - or we're going to make such a big deal before the end of the council. I'm going to make it do for the case at 1st. and continue with the fine discussion between them. The fourth members of Congress, Smokejav. n. and North. "The very honorable terms. There's a lot of work behind this bill, as we've seen, when you read the bill. There's a lot of background and obviously a lot of thinking about how to deal with the problems the bill is supposed to solve, i.e. to equal the difference between the general markets and the public markets in this regard, as well as the long - standing problem that has been overwhelming, that it is predictable that a great deal of commitment will soon be handled. The bill named the highest number I've seen on the bill so far, at least in a bill of this kind. It is 100 billion that is vague, anyway, as far as I can see, exactly how long it will be due or how it works. I'm going to get it right and it'll probably be settled on a committee, maybe a financial committee. I would normally expect, although I would not formally insist on it here and now, that there would also be a discussion on the welfare committee because these are related matters and involve people's rights, apparently by the members of the other members of Congress who have spoken here. Then it is important to remain clean on the welfare committee, not only because of the issue but also because of the work of the welfare committee and its role, in what way it is so that such effects can be evaluated in relation to other issues, such as the social security involved in the treatment and, of course, the rest of the seminary. That there's a lot of work behind this bill and that much has been put into it means that it takes time to get into the basis of it, no matter how much peace is made because if one or two groups disagrees, you need to understand why it is and it's important for the high General Assembly that it's a good awareness of why things are done the way it really is. Here we are in an environment, as history shows, for we cannot entirely be sure that things are all right, but it is said to be in peace. So it is important that the council be given sufficient space to discuss this matter. I'm telling you there's no scope for a current work programme. That's for sure. Even if we were looking for elections, the work plan would change. If we change the work schedule so that we finish the election, it will also end up with the job because such an arrangement at the time of the High Council would make it more difficult to deal with other matters, except that, based on experience, there will be an increased possibility that there will be additional issues that will fit in with a constitution or something like something else that we also need time to discuss properly but will not have time for it. I just wanted to mention one point, it's actually quite a while since it was mentioned here in the last of the years. Senator. It's another aspect of the pension rights we've been trying to fully investigate; it's not just balance between public rights and public markets, it's also the gender difference. While Iceland remains among the world's foremost nations today in regard to sex equalities, which we must be proud of, though much remains, it is part of a recent development in which we have recently achieved spectacular results, or results that one might say are something close to being magnificent. Since we are discussing issues that concern the decades, in fact a full age of work, people will now and in the near future take advantage of various pension privileges or the social security system. It was in the workforce - or not - a time when women and men and other genders would not be expected to be equal by law and rights. So we need to think about it for ourselves. This issue is not intended to solve this problem, but it is very important if we look to it, for while it is an important goal to balance the difference between general and public markets, we must not forget this objective. It is, of course, a class that is widely known for its lack of attention to the Council, and it is even worse that the end of this council is so close. I imagined I had more time to talk about this, a respectable president, but I think it's time to mention this because it has to do with the subject, not the bill as such, but the language group, and it's important to be clear. An excellent idea has been developed about a panel committee, which, in fact, I don't know how it's worked out, since I've never been at a council meeting. But if it turns out that the matter gets a better review of the council, I think it's a very good solution, if that's a solution. I would support their idea in advance that I have only heard of it in the discussions today, so I do not know exactly how it would be implemented. Then I'd like to discuss an interesting thought that I heard from what I heard. It is the idea that if need be, the Council of the North-Currituit District will always be paid payable in any way so that a pension rights will be built up for everyone, everyone will have a pension right when it comes to it. Without taking credit for the idea to someone else, this might remind me a little bit of what they call a citizen's salary, perhaps even a civil pension rights or something like that. I just throw it forward to have a label for this great idea. But I have some concerns about this and other problems that will arise or that have developed, which is that some people enter the job market very late as compared with what is possible. There are Icelanders today who went late to pay off a pension fund and earn their pension rights. People moved from country to country, foreigners to foreign lands, and foreigners to Iceland. Then there is the possibility that there would be a clump in which they would not be present when they set up the pension system that we have today, and calculated full function after 15, 25 years something like this, according to the members of the council who have been here today. Whatever the case, the problem is that young people like me feel that they have been solved long ago in our childhood and during our childhood. It's certainly a childish thought, but it's instinctive, I think. I think it's instinctive for us to imagine that somehow the obvious problem is that when people grow old, they end up being able to work to some extent. Then you'll imagine in a modern society, where we have a smartphone and a god knows what, that this is a problem that has been solved long ago. Of course not. We're here to solve these problems and, of course, come back. The only good thing about this is that it can be seen with any certainty about the future, except, of course, when the premises fail, as such. It was 2008, which can happen under extremely large social changes, such as when dating changes faster than you expected or any other combination. To that end, we need to be ever alert when it comes to this issue. I think, though, that the idea that was tore up earlier, which I'm going to allow myself to call a pension, would certainly be able to meet it. I take examples of individuals who grow up here, or those who go to school at 16◯18 years of age. They may run into disability, or whatever it is that makes people not go to the job market, but there are some people who may move here and have come to their age that they never get to build up any relevant rights. There is another problem we need to consider. The only thing I can think of is that these people need to build their rights faster, which is not obvious how they should do so in view of the fact that long-term investments in general require the long term nature of the matter. When you go into long-term investments, you work at a different budget than in short-term investments, and especially if you need to make it fast. In turn, when you are only at work for 10, 20 years, in some cases you have to assume that inflation is only for 10, 20 years, so it is something that would clearly have to be discussed. At the end of minutes, I'm going to propose an idea that I think will be necessary to introduce someday in the near future. It is that all we need to think about is the community situation that people in general are not in the job market for much of their lives. This can happen because of advances in technology. Of course, I'll have to do something in advance. People have been predicting this for 150 years or since the industrial revolution that soon it will be so wonderful and awesome that it will take away all our work, and we will all be out of work. Today, Iceland's unemployment rate is 2.9% despite advances in technology far greater than we have imagined in the past 150 years. It's the bad guy I do. On the other hand, technological advances, such as language analysis and other features of what we have so far, have been made that one could never have imagined would happen. I'm not going to say law or programming or such high-priced jobs - I say I watch the 5th. Smoke. n. But still, maybe it will happen in the next few decades. I also think that with all these technological advances in the future, we should be able to afford more leisure time in our lives. I don't think it logical to think that we are working at an average of eight hours a day in relation to some industrial revolution. I think it's much rather that we should make use of the tremendous increase in values that occurs in the community through technological advances in order to do less. But that means we need a system that assumes what we don't have today. Civil pay is one of the ideas proposed to try to create in some way a reality. It will show how realistic it will be. It won't be obvious almost immediately. But I think it's worth thinking about how you would create a system that doesn't mean we're always working until we're suddenly unable to work. I think it's time for us to come up with some big solutions to make such a reality without a raffle because we forgot to assume that one day we'd all be old, or hopefully most of the at least. Now I don't have time for any more, more dignified president. But I restate on the fact that this case takes a lot more time than we have left at the council to discuss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u127	V.E.G. President. This is where we kept it. A senator's long talk, a ten - minute talk, began by saying that it was a huge matter, and we didn't have enough time to read it and then spent the rest of the session discussing everything other than the language. [[Quarter.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] True, it's a big deal in the sense that there's a huge interest in a bank bank in a government pension fund, but it's not a complicated matter. What's being done here is that the government is laying up the money so that the fund will become sustainable, that there is no need to raise the pay. It's a huge interest issue for a bankmate. It's been talking about for a long time. They're also synchronizing and equalizing pension rights in this country. It's all a well-known discussion. They've been trying to make this deal a long time. So, next up to the agreement, they don't think they can handle this every week because there's talk of something else, talking about civilian pay, whether or not to pay for a pension and pay for a pension fund right away. It's just another whole different conversation, different stuff. I want more support for why we can't do these things, this bill, in a week. This has been won for ages. We know all about this. It's just a matter of making a political decision. Do we want this, or are men and treasurers really going to fight this and expect to be an up payment for the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u128	A respectable president. First, according to a document I prepared earlier, four and a half pages, an entire chapter, from the law. It's good if it's so ideologically simple like that. A senator mentioned, however, that is the way for us young ones in the High General, who simply do not know the sect well enough that we need time to study the matter. It's just like that. A senator must do so well and live with it. The other thing is, I was told before I stepped in Ponta that my case would be the last one, so I have no reason to stand here and delay the case. It's the last speech, and it's going to be the last answer, and I suppose, unless someone else asked for the word that I don't like. I'm talking about what I'm talking about here because I think it's important to talk about it. If we are just going to stick to the points of this matter, it would be best to skip 1st. to begin with because 1st. The objective, as I understand this, is that we discuss the issues involved so that they can be taken into consideration and into the context of the subsequent committees, it is expected that a greater issue may be made with the 2nd coverage. after considering the committees and the listeners. But it remains that I have no reason for this to be here and talk something into the night because this is the last speech as it was explained earlier. Now it may well be. A senator has no interest in the civilian trades and has no minds on the ideas that tend to create any future solutions in the seminary. Furthermore, in fact, I'm going to claim that it is, at all, that it is. A senator has far more understanding of this class and is far more experienced than the one standing here. But that means that the person standing here must consider additional possibilities and must take more time to study and talk about it. It's just that way. Hv. A senator, with perfect respect, must live with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u129	V.E.G. President. Of course, I can live with all this and much more. I just can't figure out what it is in this case that calls for so much time and lots of speculation. It's finally getting things out that I've been talking about as long as I remember, yes, my memory isn't long. [[Which is longer than I have ever lived.]] Here's a relatively simple point. I'll admit it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, I'm not interested in the burgers any more than in the Swiss taxpayers. Just nobody. I don't think it's a good idea. But there is another discussion. I think, yeah. A senator, that we are to take this matter, of course allow those here who have made comments that are one of four societies to express their comments and arguments. We've done much bigger business in less than this, things about the economy of the country and huge interests, and I don't see any reason why we can't handle this. I have been surprised at how many members of the Parliament have discussed that this matter cannot be resolved because of the shortness of time. I don't see any evidence of that, and I ask for it from what. A senator to know the evidence and what makes it impossible for us to handle this matter in a short period of time which is an enormous interest for the individuals involved here, that we make the fund sustainable and compatible rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u130	A respectable president. Hv. A senator may want to consult his own chairman and council leader in order to answer that question because the reason here is going through a difficult situation is that there is no priorities and has been waited long enough, much longer than it should be necessary. During this term, I have noticed that if you say so and the administrative part becomes impatient, you will always start to blame the lesser part of your language, sooner than later. I know that there's no running here, no, as I say, I know it's not going on here. [[I didn't even mention it.]] Then I will note that since spring the council has been very successful, and everyone agrees on it. So on the final meters, they throw in a case after a case, including this. This may not be a big deal for you. A senator named Brauns Níelsson of 19 members and has several ministers to explain things to himself, except, of course, that he has long experience in both his profession and his life, but that is simply a situation that not all members of Congress live in, it is not. There's a lot of other matters to be discussed on the welfare board and on the General and Education Committee, the committees I need to monitor, for example, that makes it more difficult to handle and complete all cases. It's simply the heavy language, especially in such a short time. That's what makes this situation happening. If we're going to finish this, we're going to put it on a list of priorities. But it's just that I don't decide. It's more of the part that decides. We wait and wait for priorities. If we're going to finish this, I can justify spending some time putting myself in it. If we're not going to finish it, I'll let it go and spend my time on something I know will run out. This priorities are missing, and they are responsible for the greater part, not the smaller part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-22-155.u131	This case has to be finished.
