ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u1	Borist has a letter from the 7th. Witchest. " Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, that she can't attend next week. Today, then, at the Second Council, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list of districts, Anna María, the Elíasdóttir of Elias, who has announced predestination. María, the Elíasdóttir of Elias, who has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome back to work. Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary Party of the Left Motion of the Green Mission to 8th. We're out of here. "Ögmundur Jónasson, can't attend a conference next time. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as his assistant, Mt. 1 of the left movement's list of green bids in the district, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir. First, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir, who is invited to serve again at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u2	At the conference of the European Parliament on April 14, last April, Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir was elected the vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u3	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 747, for travel studies, from Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u4	A respectable president. Less than a week ago, on Tuesday morning, we had a meeting with the directors of the anti - anti - generals. Prime Minister to his wish for a review of the government's issues and projects. There was a promise of elections in the fall of a source and a lawsuit, but neither has since seen, or has seen, a date of election, or a lawsuit on the part of the government. The situation at the council is now that it is difficult to find a subject for the program. The committees hardly discuss matters that can be discussed, and no one knows what the fundamental purpose of the government is as to the nation and its righteousness as it sits until autumn. Moreover, when she cannot explain when she dare meet with her voters, this crisis in politics continues to be acceptable to no one. To be honest, it is beneath the dignity of this institution that there is a government that can neither tell why it exists nor when it dares meet its voters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u5	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Árni Páll the son of Árnason. It is very strange to be invited to a meeting on Tuesday to indicate that a date for the election must be established and that it should be determined exactly what matters need to be completed. Then it goes and waits, it's Monday, and there's still no result of this meeting. I don't know what conclusions to the presidents of the government groups should draw from this, whether the government groups have found no time in today's busy affairs or if they simply don't agree on these matters. It doesn't take a space scientist to see that a very different tone is heard from the directors of the administrations on what matters to be concluded. I would be honest with the Council of the Council, with respect to the respect of this institution, that the directors of the administrations had a meeting with the council president and, of course, with other members of the council, because these matters need to be resolved. We need to show that we can handle something as tangible as choosing a good day and set a future schedule. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u6	A respectable president. I agree with them. Council members here have talked about how embarrassing it is that the Council's work programme is unclear and that there has not been a date set for elections announced in the autumn. We here are primarily responsible for the work of the council, and we know that there are not very many days left in this council. For its organization, there is good reason to spit in the palms of our hands, but then we should not forget that we are not elected by the general council. An election is a means for the nation to express its opinion. Of course, we owe our nation a special day, and we cannot have them wait for a vague day in the fall. We often compare ourselves with the northern countries and other countries as to what we want to be, but I'm afraid this situation has not changed in neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u7	A respectable president. As the council works longer without a vote date, the risk is that the date of the election, which, of course, will be determined by the greater part, in fact, the government, at least to appear to be some kind of instrument in political affairs. If it happens, it really hurts. It hurts, even if it just looks like that. Therefore, it is extremely important to know as soon as the government intends to vote because as the years go by, this question will become harder and harder to deal with. Moreover, it is quite right. Senators have told us before, I'm sure it's for the nation to know when to vote. It's not about us senators, but as time goes on, it can have a very bad effect on Congress, so it is important that we get to know this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u8	V.E.G. President. It's an unusual occasion that I have to expose the President's conference board to discuss the case I would like to make up for the subject. I've done it before. That, on the one hand, is an insufficient written answer to the highest degree. Secretary of finance for my inquiry on various topics regarding the sale of pay. It has been observed that there are quite inadequate answers that I received in two copies in a letter from the Bank County. However, from the same time of January 26, I have been in question for an oral reply from the highest degree. The secretary of finance on the matter of paying, and there's still another Monday off. A respectable president. This is insufficient, and I wrote a letter to the president today asking his help so that the Ministry of finance would answer those queries as soon as possible. I want to take this opportunity to ask the highest. Financial Minister: Why is the inquiry for the verbal response not ready to appear on the day of inquiry here today? [[The president calls.]] What's being hidden? Is there anything uncomfortable and cloudy about this case that can't stand the daylight? A respectable president. I notice that the highest. A financial minister gets rather upset when you mention this matter, and it supports me in the belief that something is unnatural about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u9	Letters anyway. The senator will be presented at the highest. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u10	V.E.G. President. The public has not forgotten the pay matter, although the company of government ministers in the tax industry has temporarily overshadowed that matter. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, it's totally unacceptable to the top. The secretary of finance has not answered this inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u11	I already answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u12	This is a request for an oral response that has not been received here on the program and was submitted by the end of January. Of course, we become suspicious when a senator's request, the legitimate wish, cannot be answered by a minister. This government is getting better at convening on litigation and election day. It is only hoped that failure will succeed when they do not even trust in answering simple inquiries. V.E.G. President. There is good reason for you to join us and voters and insist that you make practical plans and answer their queries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u13	A respectable president. I don't fully understand the atmosphere and the attitude of the Ministers here on the bench with us in the hall and what the more important things are about us in the lesser part. Here is a request and then a man decides, as if it were a box of chocolates, whom they're going to answer and who they won't answer, so it takes months to answer queries like that. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller came in. Then you step forward, the highest. Prime Minister and secretary of finance are standing down and saying: "It will be chosen in the fall. In fact, the minister of finance goes so far as to tell us that one legislature will be taken from this elected period of time. Still, people cannot decide our day and say: At this time, these are the issues that we are going to finish first. What kind of attitude are these? Why can't anyone come forward properly, submit the file, set up a date, and respond to inquiries? [[The president calls.]] It's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u14	A respectable president. Because this is a question for the minister of inquiry, I think it would be next to them who complain that questions are not answered to examine the absolute facts in this subject. I don't suppose that many ministers of the Minister have answered as many questions as the one mentioned here. In fact, the government has set a specific record in asking for the Ministers. They have been answered to an unprecedented degree. There are no answers as many by previous governments as by this government. It's just not an example. The person here has done everything in his power to respond to all the requests he has been asked directly to, including I have answered in writing and had a place to speak to. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, saying, "All right, then. A senator is not satisfied with the answer; we can discuss these matters more fully during verbal inquiry. It's just a matter of time to put it on schedule as soon as possible, but it's not all happening at once. [[The president calls.]] Depending on what the people of the country call them, they will be told. I think the people of the country are calling for something different than the bullshit that runs over the council hall. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u15	Mr. President. I'm more tolerant of the highest. Secretary of finance, but many others, but that was a very low answer at the highest level. Secretary of finance. V.E.G. Secretary of finance says the people of the country have no interest in such nonsense. And what's the baloney? That's a question from what? paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, who's been waiting for ten weeks. What's the question, chief? President? It is asked if there were prices at the Borg when the Lands Bank sold its company to the highest level. The secretary of finance has the counts, and the SEC has the same. This request has been available for ten weeks. I have a clear understanding of the Supreme Court. Minister be busy, but he's here today. Why is not a ten - week - old query answered? I understand that the Ministers have a lot to do, but it doesn't work out. The secretary of finance come here and talk about what some English blunder may be saying is that a senator uses his right to ask whether paying was sold on merits or not, if there is any merit, and if he is allowed to see it. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u16	To answer, financial and economic ministers, social and housing ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, foreign ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u17	Mr. President. I don't think any of us here in this room is necessarily a better idea than the public what is interested in the public or what the public is interested in. That is why it is important that we in our position of government perform the role that we are meant to play. Of course, what we've got at the highest point is the Panama Documents and the large number of cautionaries that seem to have been established in Iceland, especially before failure, for the advice of a US bank under insufficient supervision and perhaps a weak legal force. Tomorrow we expect a special discussion between me and the highest. Ministers on action against national and national taxes and what can be done to change legislation and work better on these matters. One of the main issues in the discussion, and I would like to ask the highest. The minister for now is the fact that the government has repeatedly said that it has to continue to complete its execution. There are steps you need to complete, such as exits, and those measures will require adjustment. We have stressed in the government that this is supposed to be a parapolitic subject, and I would like to ask what would be the highest point. A minister finds the requirement for today, that it is right to publish information on who owns bonds or bank accounts in the snow-engineering box, whether these are African societies owned by Icelanders, and if they do not want to give up real estate, they will not be released. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is this possible? Will there be some action to prevent those who do not want to reveal their real estate to be released from the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u18	Mr. President. First, a few words about the parties, the Senate work, and the progress here, just so that it's perfectly clear. The administrative body does not intend to negotiate with the smaller portion on what to do and how long to work. This discussion is completely off track. The smaller parts of the council, the 38 members of Congress who are supporting the government, are saying: "You are not working hard enough. We just disagree with your priorities. Why don't you just stop? If this were so simple, the government that was formed here in 2009 would never have been able to understand because the lesser part was opposed to it. He didn't like her emphasis, etc. It's important to abandon this extraordinary reversal of the law of the objects here at council and democracy in Iceland. The proportions of authority here at the Council were formed in the last election. It may well be difficult for some to live with it, but that's just how it is. The government groups have said that they will continue to work on the basis of the agreement, the government covenant made, and the election plan in the fall. The government may not approve of this, but it will not change anything. It will not change how the government parties intend to continue their work during this council, so that it is simply said. [[Up front.]] For what resources are there to fight on the implementation of taxes in Iceland, whether it needs more tools to be delivered to the tax authorities, we will not be left behind to react to comments made by the governor or by other taxpayers, such as the taxpayer. If there may be some success in asking for more information from sources or further means of compression, of course it will be considered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u19	Mr. President. I would have chosen to have a clear answer to my question, but a talk about this blessed 38 members of Congress more than we all have heard a number of times. It is only natural for the members of the government to ask themselves what is going on when they are called to a meeting, to discuss a scheduled day ahead, and what language to pass, when no more is heard of that meeting. It is perfectly normal for members of the government to ask themselves: " Was this meeting just a dream? Was it just something that didn't happen? True, we have seen pictures of ourselves at the meeting, so he happened. I would have expected some answers to come out. [[Up front.]] It's not about the fact that we think we have something to do with it, but we thought we were having a conversation. It's not working out. A minister would come up here and join us for wanting to be a part of that conversation. It was a good time to have such a conversation. I asked the highest. Minister, whether in the snow-engineer, we may be hiding from the Icelanders. This information has been required to be made public. [[The president calls.]] This was discussed at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee this morning. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to ask the highest. Minister how he felt about that. I would appreciate the answer to that question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u20	A respectable president. Here's a question that came up at a meeting in a committee this morning. I don't know about this discussion. I understand the inquiry is that we are being asked to take action if it is found in the Panama Documents that have been required by some Icelanders. I'm going to say in general that it's obvious that the tax authorities will use the data that were bought and any other resources to get information about whether the taxpayers are supposed to hide, take advantage of national or tax countries, to avoid legal tax returns. That's all I really can say. With regard to the other thing, I'm going to arrange for the directors of the board to meet with the prime minister. I noticed, but I wasn't at that meeting. When they came out, I watched. [[The president calls.]] It was as if they had been for some other council but are at the council later that day, because there was someone completely different. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u21	Mr. President. This year, under the laws on government finance, the highest value was the year. Financial and economic secretary to submit a plagion arrangement for financial programmes on April 1 or 18 days ago. The law states that the most recent financial programme for the next five years should include a report which presents policies for the unique area of the A State Fund and how it harmonizes with the economic development and pay targets. A letter received by the General during the days of the Ministry of Economics, which states that the project was not successful in time but that it will be submitted on April 8, and today April 18th. Since the early year of the year, prime financial bills had long been in preparation, and it became clear that the law went into effect and that budgets were expected to cover financial costs, among other things. What a surprise it is, then, for the contribution of the plan! I'd like to ask the highest. Financial and economic secretary when it's due. And in spite of an unconvinced political situation, and although such planning will be subject to a warning about changes in government policy, the election to the Council in the autumn is still important to have a plan for a number of years that has been discussed at the General Assembly. This point is emphasized in a paper entitled Follow-up information and the debate at the General Assembly, which contributes to a greater firmness in economic management and stable basis for public opinion. This is the core of the matter and one of the important objectives of government law. The schedule is legal and you cannot choose when to submit it. So I ask, when does she come?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up and saying every word about the importance of sticking to all the spirit and goals of the Law's new releases on public finances, including building up a discussion on the development of public funds in the budget. Later today, the plan is to sign a agreement between the state and the local community on public financial matters, i.e. on financial policy. That is, for the first time, an agreement with rural society on the basis of financial policy has been established. What a cause for joy that is! I'm sorry that it took longer than it was to finish the plan, but long before we could complete our work before Easter. I think it's pretty clear that we're going to accept both, i.e. The financial and financial policies, the government this week, and the subsequent steps of the case into the council. There are, however, some extensive documents, especially financial programs, on a different hundred pages of policy. I hope that when the document shows that we will succeed for the first time in this process for a good discussion and deepening our discussion of public finances, what the State will do to sustain stability, and what we can do to achieve better results for the people of the country in different areas. It's the broad lines. Then there is further progress to the budget of each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u23	Mr. President. In order for the plans to be implemented here at the council, it is important that it be performed as soon as it is done when discussing how things will end at this council, but at the highest level. Financial and economic secretary has insisted that budget needs to be submitted in the fall just before election. It is certainly a solution to determine the contract and contributions of a budget bill in a state of unsecured politics as it now prevails in this country, but it is simple to sit down and figure out a solution to it. I remind you that in the fall of 2013, the contributions of a budget bill were postponed because the government did not believe that they had enough time to win the bill. I think it's more like political charismaticism than a government government in the last days putting up a budget bill in the middle of an election campaign, a bill that is not being discussed at the council and will surely make a big change in the hands of a new government. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not consider that to be contrary to a law of firmness and of public financial transparency. Why is this so important? A minister stresss that this will be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u24	Mr. President. I think it's just one of the political problems today, that people call it odd to perform a legal function, such as preparing a budget for next year. It is the law's duty for the government to continue working in all its means to prepare budgets for the next year. Given that the law will not be changed at a council to gather here in September, and it should be the first thing to bring up a budget bill. Someone may feel that it is better to work if the existing management parties take up their work and turn to something else, not to care for the budget, or some plan over the head. I don't agree with that. What we're doing here to maintain control, stability, and some success in the work of the entire administration, is to continue to carry out our legal assignments, from whether or not they're renewing the council's commission. [[The president calls.]] It may well be that a new government changes the budget. But who knows, maybe a government that agrees with a budget bill and puts the bill in place almost unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u25	A respectable president. Today, a great deal of talk about government elections is being discussed, and we are all eager to know when that promise will be carried out. But then I'd like to recall that in the leading of the last election, both members of the board gave out that continued communication with the European Union would be chosen during the term that is due to come to an end. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of state when this vote will take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u26	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. An arrangement on this matter is not planned, and I don't see that it will have time to do so. Besides, I don't know that the group I've seen here has promised such a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u27	A respectable president. That's, I must say, frustration. It is quite certain that before the election, prospective members gave it up that the continuation would be so in the judgment of the people whether the meeting would be continued. That was absolutely clear. With that, people went to their homes and chose. You see, even if it is the highest standard, it is. The minister of state has dropped into Brussels, the General Assembly of the Icelanders has not retracted the application.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u28	It doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u29	The General agreed to conduct these negotiations, but it has not been decided to retract the application. It has to be done. That's the process we need to find. That is why I say it is a tremendous disappointment to know that the current minister of foreign affairs is not going to attend to the approval of the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u30	A respectable president. The policies of the government party were very clear to elections. Very clear. Iceland is no longer an application state, and it's clear. If it's the will of a new government, and I don't know how that case will be handled, to vote for the progress of these cases, it does, then it's no problem. This is the situation, and the policy was clear and carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u31	A respectable president. It's always interesting to get to the top. The counsellors of this country must now say. The lights of the world have been directed to Iceland over the past few weeks and days following information that protected the relationship between Icelandic rulers, including the then prime minister, with a tax industry, including Tortoli. It can hardly be considered acceptable for Iceland's image out of the question that a key member in Iceland's government, not one, but three, was implicated in this Panama leak. There's been a lot of media, as I think everyone here at the council noticed, the lobby in here was full of media people. A media request came from Japan, Norway, Hong Kong, I don't know what or what. These media from abroad describe Iceland in detailed news reports as banana republics. I don't think that's a very nice word to say. Iceland. So I'd like to ask the highest question. Minister of State how she intends to react to this media coverage, whether there is something to help correct Iceland's image and what action they will best follow, including whether it is time for Iceland to have a big reputation as a democracy that is supposed to be a model for Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u32	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. What we've been doing: Our information department immediately began to analyze this discussion and see how extensive it was and how it could respond to it. One of the facts was that the subject was, of course, by the time the prime minister resigned and was formed a new government. But the discussion has been very factual. We have not had to correct much of it. All of this has worked out relatively well. But what we're doing, the Ministry personnel, is answering queries. We are working to learn a little more about the good things we have been working on in recent years. That's what I'm talking about. Of course it's uncomfortable. I'm not going to get in the way of that and say something else. Still, we must make careful answers and approach them with a measure of calmness and not with the idea of creating new news, which may not be good. And then there is another: Although some may find it a little difficult to admit, it's going quite well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u33	A respectable president. I couldn't understand the highest. A minister may be somewhat different from the fact that we should be careful when talking to reporters and just saying nice things about Iceland. I think it's a little strange in itself. The arrival of people, and especially those in charge, that taxes may not seem to be a matter abroad. There's a reason that even today articles are being published two weeks after the scandal, about exactly this and how Iceland is dealing with this or not dealing with this. There are many things we have to do, that must be done in politics, so that we can be considered trustworthy. As the situation is now, I don't see it. An election in the fall, maybe. Paint file, possibly. But there seems to be little more to it than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u34	A respectable president. This means that we are not the only State in this discussion, but more countries have been in the discussion. Clearly, we were very early in the discussion. But here, some people speak as if we were the only state under discussion. That's not true at all. With regard to the tax cover and the coverage of that subject: All the nations of the world are coming together and working on it. Hv. A senator knows that well. This is not entirely isolated from Iceland. I agree with the appeal of those who want to handle these matters, just mind you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u35	President. Both the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance and then the highest. To this day, secretary of finance has put much emphasis on recent matters to the great and powerful conniving section that the government groups have at the General Assembly. I don't doubt it. When asked for a file and when it is submitted, they say, "We have a strong share, and we are not going to let the lesser portion oppress us. " I'm fine with that. I would now have thought that the agitation in society would cause us at the council to try to sort it out somehow and show that we could work together. I'm sure that once there's a file, the government's work will be very much on the subject. That's why I must ask the highest. Minister to this: Is it likely that much of this legal record will be such a subject of controversy to test for the great political part that the Ministers reiterate over and over again? Is it likely that the government is going to contribute, in the world's environment, to some major problem? I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u36	Mr. President. No, I don't think so. I don't think the government would follow the advice of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, who brought a new fishing system by the end of May and wanted to finish it by the end of Congress. I don't think we're gonna do that. Besides, I don't think that the government that is supporting much of the rest of the sector like this would follow the management of the 1997 State of the State of the less part and provide a number of changes in the constitution to complete in a few weeks. I don't think we were going to do what that government did. That's not what we were going to do. I don't quite understand why so many people are unsure about the issues we want to stress because they're over a day of contribution at the council. For this reason, there are dozens of cases known to the entire council. Senators of the Senate's individual committees are familiar with these issues. Tomorrow's program will be a transport plan. It would be good if we could complete a transportation plan. I hope she can be accepted by someone. We usually try to win it over as much political solidarity as possible. There are very few new cases. We've mentioned cases related to delinquency of the past, and after the cases, the government has given us the right to make important issues, and we realize that it is better to accept them than to be less at peace. The reason why I'm here is that there's a good part behind the government isn't that it's wearing claws and that it's going to make a black man steal, but to remind the principle that while the government has a strong part at the council, it's probably going to continue working. You're welcome. It is a variant that a government with such a major part intends to shorten the terms of the election and announce an election sooner. [[The president calls.]] That's the main thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u37	A respectable president. I think that one of the most sensible things that this government did was to respond to the pleas of the people because of their lack of confidence in the politics of the country. That is why I would have wished that an election had been announced immediately. I wasn't asking about any past history or anything like that. I'm sick of these ancient stories. I was asking if there was a problem now. The secretary says no. He's not expecting it. I'm glad you're here. But I'd like to ask the minister, because there's a lot of pressure in the Senate and this party is running for 51% of the people: what do they think? Minister of mismanagement in the country? Is he willing to fight with me for being equal?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u38	A respectable president. I would be delighted if we could spend more time in material discussions on such important matters as this, on conflicting votes. I have always felt that areas in the country need to be taken into account. The current procedure is to vote - it's not a constitution - it's up to twice the value of the vote. There are other ways, such as by binding members of Parliaments to specific areas. By doing so, we might on the basis of an equal application of votes throughout the country, even though they were bound to certain areas. But we have had very little success in discussing this at the council. I don't know. I'm feeling a little upset about that. The situation of the country as a single-scale example with a constant vote has always been in my mind that it would be removed from the voters and their representatives to increase. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u39	A respectable president. We live in a packaging society where the collection of plastic packages is a serious environmental hazard on both sea and land. Despite this fact, and increasing weight in discussions about ways to reduce the use of plastics, it seems that the use of plastic wrappings continues to increase. The dressings in which plastic is mixed with other materials are constantly increasing, such as in drinking products in the cardboard carton with a plastic cap. An example is the product of 6 bridges. 3 g coffee is packed. Carton containing both aluminium and plastic. Then we will remember the Easter eggs packed in cardboard and plastics and then each containing ten small plastic bags around different types of candy. This package allows for recovery and classification in households as well as in categorical centres. It is estimated that each year Icelanders use 70 million plastic bags of over 200 plastic bags per person. Last January, the highest standards were made. Workgroup environment and resource administrator to implement measures to reduce the use of plastic bags. The team is in their line of work to look to the General Assembly's resolution from July 2015, if I understand correctly, change of the EEA contract due to plastic bags use and the EEA's proposal on how to reduce plastic sachet use. So I want to ask the highest. Environment and resource minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, whether we need another group of workers to look for ways to reduce use of other plastic containers or whether it would be possible to expand the group's tasks so that it covers all plastic containers. Then I would also like to ask if there are any rules for limiting the use of plastic dressings in Iceland and which methods of managing plastic stores are best disposed to reduce the use of a plastic store and which options are best used to reduce the use of a combination package which may be difficult to recycle. That's the questions I've been asking for. I would like to start by thinking about the motivation for innovation, the ways in which governments use it, whether or not to use motivations or restrictions or bans; whether it is more likely to look to the public and consumers or to those who pack the product.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u40	A respectable president. I thank you for your excellent query. The task force is working and aims to develop suggestions to reduce the effective use of plastic bags. That group should report to me no later than June 15 of the second. I'd also like to be able to make a proposal adopted here at the General Assembly of July 1, 2015, and the EEA's proposal on how to achieve policies and measures aimed at reducing plastic sachet use in this country. How extensive it is to reduce all plastic use and still be taken seriously! The EEA is launching a microplastic project, which includes cooperation with Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Portugal and the North countries. The aim of the project is to create a definition of what is a partial thromboplastin, how to monitor the problem, and how to act wisely. The plastic is so much of our day - to - day life that it can become difficult. Apart from all the results of plastic usage, it takes about two pounds of oil to produce one kilogram of plastic. I'm sure we're trying to set up, and we have it in preparation, another group to call for further suggestions on how to limit plastic use with special emphasis on a single-use container. I would like to thank the General for inviting people to the lakes and be able to pour them out in bottles, not in disposable plastic containers, which are, unfortunately, very widely in public institutions. It is also asked if there are limits to the use of plastic containers in this country. Whether there is a reason to use the law No. 52/1989 of the measures to protect the environment from contamination caused by the single use container for drinking products, which may be in accordance with the regulations for the use and sale of a single-use drinking container which cannot be used or cannot be reused. This document has not been modified and refers to a drinking container made of so-called PC-plastics that cannot be recycled or a plastic cool drink bag and an aluminium which is mixed together and is nonrecyclable, which is very low in labour. First, we need an increased awareness of unnecessary plastic dressings in order to reduce the use of plastic containers. It's the most important thing. In order to promote the change of mind, it is important to increase our education in order to counteract the waste. This all points to our waste prevention policy, combined in waste management. The latest research has shown that plastic waste is a hazard to its ecosystems and is introduced into the food chain. Reduced production of plastic waste may reduce the use of the resource, mineral oil, and also reduce distribution of chemicals that are harmful to the environment such as hormonal substances. I find pleasure in seeing and sensing that the public, business, and institutions are sorting waste far more than has been done. But we still have a long way to go. At the same time, people need to know that multi-use containers, multi-use bags, etc. to reduce the use of any plastic, e.g. disposable food containers in cafeterias. You must also prevent the use of plastics that are difficult or impossible to recycle, as previously observed. I think it is very important to cooperate effectively with producers and traders to reduce the use of plastic stores and nonessential packaging materials, as mentioned here on Easter eggs, and to help the design package take into account waste prevention. What action do Ministers intend to take? I've mentioned instruction. I think it's a key. It's really important. However, there is also a way to ban production and the use of plastic stores and other materials that are difficult to reuse. Taxation may be considered or subsidized on packaging desirable from environmental sources as well as the use of economic catalysing to green product innovation. But as the leader noted, it is extremely important that we be able to contribute to the innovation of green matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. The leader and minister for the important questions raised here. I remind you of a case quoted by the minister, which was about reducing the use of plastic bags, which was to be submitted to the results of November 1, 2015. As the minister said, it has been postponed until June 15th, 2016. I would've liked to see it happen sooner. I agree with a minister about things, such as plastic bottles we use, of course it is a disgrace. I was at a meeting in the EEA this morning where the impact was observed. We need to think about this whole thing, i.e. plastic bags and other items. Somehow the organisms, the fish, are making plastic food that falls into the sea and transforms into undesirable materials that we consume and sell abroad. This is a huge problem that we have to try to find ways to deal with. If large nations can do that, we must be able to do the same. I sure hope we can get our hands on it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she knows where the changes to the European Union's package directive, which were discussed when this synopsis proposal was submitted, are in place in the process and if it has been approved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you, both of you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir desk as well as the highest. Minister of the environment for this discussion. I couldn't quite care when a minister stressed awareness and education so strongly, although I completely agree that it is important, but when she began to mention ways of improving, to create a prohibition on the production of certain plastics or their use for a purpose, taxation, economic motivations for environmental dressings as well as subsidies on better options. I am happy that a minister has mentioned these advantages and would like to strongly encourage them to apply themselves as early as possible to reduce plastic pollution. As the ozone layer was ensuing, we reacted well. There's a lot of damage to plastics already, like cot. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen came in here, is returning through the food chain because of massive pollution in the sea as well as land pollution. This is an urgent issue, and it must be approached with a sense of urgency, not just by a conscious awakening.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u43	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for presenting this inquiry. This is an extremely important matter. In my opinion, we have to do something right away. We don't have time to wait, and we've got to figure out which roads are best, but we've got to start. I also want to thank the highest. Minister for her answers. I don't think that's enough. Environment Minister to state what you can do, but you must make decisions. It is not enough to name the routes; it is a big challenge to take action. I felt that there were many ways that were the highest. A minister spoke very highly of the sound. Because of the enormous and massive problem of plastic wrappings and plastic pollution, I think there are a number of procedures that just need to be performed. I wanted to be the highest. A minister pushed the points she mentioned into action as soon as possible and made laws that can help us in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u44	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and members of the council who have participated in the discussion. The minister reviewed a number of problems and the pollution of this high plastic use, such as pollution in the sea and the use of fossil fuels. The minister also traced many possible routes, and I join all of them and encourage ministers to take the first steps as soon as possible. I did not notice that a minister would come on the way that has been traveled around us in many countries, where public members have set a clear shopping policy on packaging shopping, both for purchases where dressings are an abnormally high product ratio and for packaging content. I'd like to point out that path as one possibility in the situation. I find education extremely important both to consumers and to the manufacturer's products. After I have the opportunity to visit producers, I have often asked, "Why do you have this double bandage? I always get the answer: The consumers want it. I think it's important that these two go hand in hand. Green motivations are of utmost importance and motivation to the manufacturer to test new packages. I would like to point to the water bottle designed at the National Institute of Art, which may not be ready for production but is a very interesting project.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u45	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this wonderful discussion. I'd like to call Generalis to the attention that this seems to be women's business. I certainly hope that the male coin will also be concerned, for as this fine discussion has been made, so is disaster. It's a real threat, and on this point we should take it with all our advice. A variety of measures is needed. I recently visited the company of Lilliput. They pointed out that plastic bags are actually the smell of something much bigger. These large packages would be considered bigger and worse than plastic bags. We have started this assignment, but of course it is normal to start somewhere. This PC-plastic is a very difficult battle and we can try to help ban it. But here came this golden sentence: 'Counsels want it.' That's why I've been talking about a wake-up call. It's very important, so consumers don't want it. That's what we need to achieve, that producers understand that this is no longer possible. I see it like all of us, young people don't let go of the plastic bottle. Of course, it can renew the water in a plastic bottle, but the problem grows and grows. There's really nothing else on tables where you come to meetings, but water in plastic bottles. Even if we were to handle it alone, it would be a big step.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u46	V.E.G. President. I've been thinking about West Sahara for quite some time. Until 1975, the country had a Spanish colony. Yet, the Spanish did not eliminate the local people from forming their own kingdom. Rather, it became the neighboring state of Morocco, the country, and then the government. In connection with the occupation, the world's longest segregation has been built, with the largest minefield in the world. A large percentage of the Western Saharic people have lived in refugee camps in the neighboring country of Algeria for four decades. The National Parliament has concluded that Iceland should internationally advocate the self - determination right of the WestSahara to be respected in line with the conclusions of the United Nations Security Council and General Assembly. V.E.G. The former minister of the ministry of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson took special turns in his speech to the United Nations General Assembly, and I am aware that it was taken from those who are concerned with this matter. Recently, the Moroccan government of Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations prime secretary of the United Nations, refused to travel to WestSahara and drove out a number of U.S. Peacekeepers, an unprecedented operation. Last morning, reports that a WestSahara conscientiouste died in custody, probably as a result of torture. Morocco Center is refusing to have the case investigated. A respectable president. Marocco's Marokkó of West Zoaara has been characterised by the plundering of Western Sahara resources to form fishing grounds. In the 2010 Norwegian Foreign Minister's answer to a request on the EFTA Free Trade Convention with Israel, and Morocco noted that the policy of Norway is that free trade agreements with individual countries can only turn to their international approved borders. Since Morocco's authority on West Suaara is not internationally accepted, products from there cannot fit into the holiday agreement. Switzerland's interpretation of the free trade agreement is comparable, but not quite as clear as that of the Norwegian foreign minister. So I want to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs in agreement with the Norwegian and Swiss government interpretation of EFTA and Marocco's 1997 holiday contract that it does not cover the safety of the occupied areas of the West-Sahara?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The elements of the West Seara region and its inhabitants have been discussed in the past at the General Assembly. So it is not surprising to remember that about two years ago, a judicial resolution was adopted by the President's permission: ▪ The Council of Foreign Ministers believes to assign themselves internationally to the national decision-making rights of the WestSahara will be respected in accordance with the conclusions of the United Nations Security Council and General Assembly and will support efforts to find peaceful and lasting political solutions. In the treatment of that synonym, the State Department granted its resignation. It identified the Ministry's assessment of a government policy that was in harmony with the synonym. The review stated that the UN General Assembly and Security Council had recently adopted unanimous conclusions that, among other things, agreed that the WestSahaara's self - determination rights should be respected in accordance with the United Nations founding covenant and declared support for continued action by the United Nations in support of political solutions. At the same time, the Ministry stated that the Icelandic government felt strongly that the international community gave the insistence of the Western Sahara insistent attention. At the United Nations, Iceland has regularly emphasized the importance of achieving political solutions, as it were. The senator turned aside, and this solution is based on the self - determination right of the WestSahara people to be respected, including backed by the above conclusions made by the General Assembly. Asking why. The senator is asked if a minister agrees with the Norwegian and Swiss government interpretation that EFTA and Marocco's holiday contract does not reach security from the WestSahara. Of course, this question has not been discussed at the World Council of earlier times, although it is certainly similar to the proposal for Congress that I mentioned earlier. However, the question has arisen in both Switzerland and Norway, as it does in the question of why. Senator. Both countries have concluded that the contract does not cover Western Zoara. The states do not accept the authority of Marokkó over that region. As the matter has been discussed in the field of EFTA, this position has also been uninvolved in Iceland and Liechtenstein as well as the opinions of Switzerland and Norway on this matter. A respectable president. So the answer to this inquiry is clear. We agree with the Norwegian and Swiss government interpretation of EFTA and Marocco's free trade agreement that it does not cover the protection of the Western Sahara region.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for a very clear and direct answer to my question. I am delighted that Iceland interprets this free trade agreement between EFTA and Maroccos in the same way that the Norwegian and Swiss government have made it impossible to reach security from the occupied areas of Western Zohar. I think it's very important. I think this may even be of particular interest to the future now, for unfortunately, the situation in the WestSahara now looks worse than has been done for a long time by the unprecedented exodus of the United Nations Peacekeepers, which, of course, is completely incredible and really international political matters which should certainly deserve discussion alone, which I consider important to mention in this context. Right out of this context, it's so important that Iceland's attitude is quite clear. However, it is also apparent that over the years, it is shown in the import reports, a considerable import has been made on marine products from Morocco to Iceland. In view of the fact that the main fishing grounds of Moroccos are just off the coast of West Zoara, I believe the next very important step is to make a very good analysis of their origins, and I present it here that I will continue to study the matter, whether it will be in the suit of inquiry or Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I'll follow it more closely.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-18-99.u49	A respectable president. Thank you so much. Foreman. Although the affairs of the Western Sahara region have not been prominent in the conference or in the general community, it is a very important matter, and I thank the senator again for pointing it out. I repeat what I said in the first answer that the State Department feels strongly that the international community is giving the serious persistence that exists in the WestSahara deserved attention. I reiterate that Iceland has contributed to this issue in its case at the United Nations. Above all, there is a political solution based on the self - determination of the people of West Zoaara and respecting the conclusions of the General Assembly of the United Nations that I discussed in my previous reply. Question question. The senator was clear, and I repeat my answer that Iceland agrees with government interpretations in other EFTA countries, Switzerland and Norway, that the contract does not cover the protection of the WestSahara. I will also observe the comments and indications as well. A senator mentioned the export of a marine prisoner - import, thank you, i.e. Exports from them. [[Upward: import.]]
