ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u1	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 964, with regard to foreign tax cover, from the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u2	Mr. President. Because of what Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, said. Secretary of State, this morning's TV station, the one listed here wants to account for his best interests in the saying goodbye. V.E.G. The minister of state claimed that the one standing here, as well as the family, had benefited from saying good news when fighting for changes in the fishing system during the last term. In this context, I would like to present the following: The one standing here and her husband never owned or sold fish parvota. My adoptive father was in danger of miniboating because of his age when I sat at the General Assembly in 2009, and my father, a sailor with a small boat, died in 1997. So no direct or indirect private interests depended on my fighting for changes in the saying system, only the interests of the public. By word of mouth, foreign minister endeavors to mislead the debate on the interests of prime minister and his wife, promoting false stories about a signed senator in order to exonerate him on the council and on the social debate and to kill the spread of criticism on the prime minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll insist on that. The minister of foreign affairs draws this false and false record back. I had a bad dream last night. I think it's at the highest. The minister of state has drawn sludge in the discussion, and this is a sludge transfer not to be tolerated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wish he'd apologize and retract this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u3	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney, the daughter of Magnúsdóttir, feels that this statement is the highest. Foreign Ministers are worthy and deserve an apology. To withdraw into the discussion some alleged family interests from when an old sailor sells a small boat after a 50 - year - long career to complete a long life and have something in his old age, drawing it up to compare it with the billions of financial interests of a wife. The prime minister she has in a declared tax charge in Tortula to compare these two things together is so incomprehensible and insignificant that I do not remember hearing another such comparison at the council. Of course. Minister of State to apologize for these comments, and how pathetic it is when people use such methods in the public discussion at the council to blacken the lives of honest people and thus leave this way! [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u4	A respectable president. It seems that the one standing here had the highest. Secretary of state has provided radio programs this morning at 7:30, where the above words are quoted. Thank you so much. Magnúsdóttir Since this morning's statement is sadly not so that it is not the first time that the minister of the State is conducting these trinkets. In fact, during this conversation in the Assembly Hall yesterday, he saw a seamen calling here from the minister class these pimps toward the back. Senator. It is vital that this statement be made. I have no expectations that the minister of foreign affairs would offer any honor or apology for his words, I have not tried to show such honor to anyone, but I believe that a low-depth discussion of this sort of itself, including the foreign minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u5	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers and marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u6	A respectable president. We have discussed many times in this hall how to cope with the challenge that wealthy individuals take their income to shelter from commercial transactions that take place in Iceland to avoid paying taxes. We heard earlier that an answer is expected to be highest. Secretary of finance to what? paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir. It is highly unnatural that income generated in Iceland by a domestic trade when one party sells some things, services or products, moves to foreign tax collections, and, in turn, a local taxation. There was a persistent problem before a crash, but of course a currency holder changed it. But this trend is not unique in Iceland, it has parallels throughout Europe. It has been a struggle of equals throughout Europe to stand up for military action against taxes. The reason for this is obvious. As a result of this situation, the burdens of well - being work all on the middle class, and the richest avoid contributing to the collective service as they should. As a result, tax interests increase between social groups, leading to a growing wealth as normal people remain in existence. It is necessary for me to know that the value of Iceland is taxed in Iceland. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How can we work together to that end? What will he be able to do in order to ensure that he will do so? We must prepare for the reimbursement of that pressure if the head of a currency is relieved. How will we prevent those who are now making money in the community from following the example of the others before a crash and from making money all the way to Tort itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u7	Mr. President. I've made it clear that Icelanders become members of the international agreements for information exchange. How successful OECD has been in bringing together countries in recent years to ensure common measures in order to provide information on business practices between the tax authorities of all Member States. There is a measure of self-activity now the main theme of the information process under these most recent contracts. Hv. A senator comes in here on a few things. Tax gains produced in Iceland should be the least problem in this. The profits made in a trade in Iceland should be taxed here, and we should have the easiest time to cover those cases. What everyone has been most concerned about is that property companies are in the area where property is being hidden, where tax returns are not listed. Likewise, business with such partners in low tax areas is not taxed at the end of the day. The information exchange agreements are specifically designed to expose these issues in order to ensure the transparency and availability of the tax authority in each Member State to the necessary information so that the tax obligations can be applied where it is correctly introduced. We've done quite a success in obtaining data. For the Economic and Business Committee, there is a group of suggestions on whether we can take further steps in these activities. [[The president calls.]] But international cooperation, I believe, is the longest weapon we can add to our weapons.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister responds and shares with him the view that international cooperation is the best way to ensure transparency in this regard. We must think, though, of the motivation then, when those who were making money selling companies and making big money before crash, carrying the profits abroad, and carrying them with the advice of the banks they employed in the Caribbean or in other tax waters. What did it say? What were the benefits of moving the money into this foreign tax area, even if the profits were available in this country? That is the question we need to follow. I understand the highest. A minister may even feel that it is safe to do so. Maybe it'd be nice to hear his better version of it. If that is safe from taxes, and we can completely grasp the profits that will exist here in national legislation, why were men moving all this money into the Caribbean? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u9	Mr. President. No doubt there are many reasons why they choose to establish associates here and where the world is, including those places. They can be as different as there are many of them. What we should be worried about is when trying to expose what is really happening, when property is being turned away, when it is being prevented from giving the right and the necessary information so that the tax office can function according to law. These are the situations we should be most concerned about. After all, the other in itself is less disturbing, except for the fact that the arrangement in some of these places can help to keep people in doubt about what really is going on. Like the person I have recently signed, information exchange agreements are directed towards such cases by the OECD initiative. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u10	Mr. President. It is not boring, however, to be in a position of government during this terms. There are so many things to be seen that mean things. Councilmen of the government may enjoy it. We can review the company's advance on a whole budget bill from the highest level. Minister. We can review changes in the fishing system that never occurred. We can review the housingmarks that lasted very long at birth, and the energy items were at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs sent the highest. Secretary of finance to push her forward. We can only talk about the elimination of insurance and the campaign plans for the forwarding party on that matter. We can talk about the bank sale as high as possible. There's a secretary of finance, but the advance party's against it. We can talk about suggestions about improvements in obstetrical sex that individual members of the Independence Party speak against. We can talk about farm contracts, which individual members of the Independence Party speak in return. And then we can talk about the Land Hospital, which is not just a senator speaking against the location, location that has been established at the General Assembly, but it is also the prime minister who is the leader of the government. This may be the best time for some meanie. Congress officials review it, of course, but it's no fun for those who have to work under the highest pressure. Governments, such as those to direct the affairs of the national hospital. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party: Health Minister has come to the highest level. The prime minister is really just speaking to the air, the leader of the government. Does the government not follow its prime minister? Is there any reason, not for me or anyone in the government opposition, but for those who have to work under the authority of the government, that the government may look at its cooperation and perhaps establish a special Ministerial Committee on improving cooperation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u11	Mr. President. Thank you for your big count. Perhaps it would be informative to make this a little more historical review. [[Up front.]] We could go back a little further and ask ourselves: " What was it like when people disagreed about Icesave, about the passage in the European Union, about whether the national court case should be charged, how to handle the constitutions of the changes, or the seafarmers, and so forth? [[Up front.]] This is what happens when corporate governments are in power. We don't have one category. Thank you for the tip of setting up a special Minister's Committee to Smuggle the wheels. But I'm going to draw attention to the fact that when there are aspects of the government covenant, it is clear what has been the most important issue in this terms. In particular, we have been discussing the economic issues during this terms, in line with the emphasis of the Treaty, and we have had great success in these areas. We talked about a debt to pay back a home. The results have been tremendous in this regard. We've been discussing the development of broilers, and in what way we could contribute to the disposal of currency wastes. Now, for the first time from 2008, we're seeing to it that we can lift the seas. I could count on so long, on increased contributions to infrastructure and socially important factors, such as increasing progress towards welfare. That's what counts with the people in the country. Then, that there is a disagreement on the emphasis on individual issues is only small in the way of winning this large milestone. So I think that's why. A senator can stay quite calm as long as we produce results for the nation in what is most important.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u12	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is totally calm about this matter, but I'm more worried about those who need to obey government and government guidance. That is why I specially mention Land Hospitals ◯ College Hospital as the highest level. The prime minister has been moving to the capital area, not just last week, but a year ago. And it's always the highest. Healthcare Ministers forward and settled that the construction site is being moved. As a result of huge uncertainty, public experience is that the matter is completely up and up. It's not acceptable, and maybe there's a reason why if the government doesn't work as a Minister's Committee for Good Cooperation to establish such a Minister's Committee, because it keeps moving into business. I'd like to ask you what. Chairman of the Independence Party: Has the location of the Land Hospital been discussed, or is there a case for reviewing this in cooperation with the board of directors? [[The president calls.]] The words "counsel " and" union " are a red thread through the government's declaration of cooperation and then will not be enough to do so. The head of the Independence Party is just talking about the last terms. There's only one year left in this term, and it's fine to get in on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u13	Mr. President. Maybe I should have added more about last term just so I could empty it and maybe talk about the state of the council of the left green. At least no cabinet minister has been rushed out of the government during this terms such as the year. A senator on my right and others, at least... Senators who are having a hard time putting up with it. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] There have been at least no members of Congress leaving members of the administrations, as has occurred during the last term. But okay. Do people want to talk about something special? There's a disagreement about selling banks. I haven't suggested to the council that the banks be sold this year. Is it? That proposal has not been made. The bank administration has taken out the position and said that circumstances could arise for sale, but I've not had a suggestion from the Bank County, nor have I brought it in here. For the hospital it has not been removed from its current course. We simply have the matter in a specific direction. It is a measure of financial building. We have a long-term plan, and it thinks. [[The president calls.]] I'm willing to listen to some ideas that they think can be of use to the people in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I will not ignore it. But in the meantime, we just move on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u14	A respectable president. In many respects, it is shocking to the highest. There is no answer here today for the prime minister. But since he's not here, I'd like to direct questions to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers, especially since he is the chairman of the Independence Party, the second members of the forward-class government and the Independence Party. There are so many cases, as mentioned in the question of why. People before me, who are so vague and who seem to be a deep disagreement in the government that you really don't know what you're going to start with. Yesterday we agreed on the Code for the Generals. It says that the general council should tell about all the interests that they or their families have placed on this site. During this season, we have spent a lot of effort and effort talking about the seas, renovations of old banks, status of foreign demands. There is a great deal of money in these matters. We all know that it is vital that these matters be taken care of with full confidence and that there is a solid basis for success. In view of this, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, who has had the problems done, two questions: It's under the roof. The minister of finance that prime minister should have made known that his wife was a foreign demands and that a family was the highest. Why should a prime minister give serious attention to how the council handled these matters? I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew. Secretary of finance because a woman is the highest. A prime minister would be a foreign requirement? Did he not have reason to make this known to the council and to the nation? I have to ask these questions because we were accepting the code of ethics here yesterday. The Congress agreed to accept this code of ethics. If these questions are not part of the discussion, I ask: Why not? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u15	Mr. President. I think it was an important step for us at the council to set up the rules of agreement yesterday after a very big job, and to follow along and fill out in a framework developed by other rules, such as rules on interest registration. I'll have two questions here. The first question is, Have I personally had this information? I didn't have it. The first question was what was normal and correct in this context. I have to state to my point that I feel that the prime minister himself must explain how this matter was presented. In the end, we must measure the issues from the laws and regulations that apply to the material. I've seen nothing else in this case but that the law and the rules have been followed. In that sense, I'm not in any position to say that something unnatural was going on there. But again. It is not good to be in a position to take a stand and answer for what others are best about. I know it's the highest. If so, the prime minister will do so. Like what? A senator said. It would have been the best thing to have him here himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A financial minister for excellent answers and agrees with him that it had certainly been normal and, of course, probably the highest degree. Prime Minister would have been here to answer, but not so. I cut that last year's answer to my first question to the highest. The secretary of finance said that such a matter was undesirable when he spoke of national accounts and such. I have to agree with that with the highest. Secretary of finance, especially when it comes to the council, and it's in the spirit of the rules we agreed on yesterday and we've been talking about everything since collapse, things are on the tables, that we're doing not just meeting the utmost legal code but that we have things on the table in general. We don't have time to get into it, but unfortunately, we're part of the problem that we're trapped in a centennial, Icelandic public, while others, some, have the opportunity to get away and be in a foreign currency market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u17	Mr. President. I would like to state that there is nothing unusual about Prime Minister not being here today. He was here for the previous espionage period of the week and had long ago announced that he would not be present for this question period. What may be unnatural is that questions he may be directed to me. But okay. I've tried to deal with it as much as I can. I feel that, as I said in my previous answer, it's a pleasure and it's important that there's some agreement on the rules of this kind at the council. We must never forget the purpose and purpose of such service, which is to explain to us the interests that may be there and are important and can, after events, influence the progress of the council. To this end, the rules are developed, and I have not yet made any examples of the rules that apply to these materials in any way have been broken. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u18	A respectable president. The news that was now received this week about property and the highest claim of a wife. The prime minister arrived at a rather unfortunate time in which we are completing all that is involved in breaking down the fallen banks. Now we're accepting today's issue of No. 420 that may be the final item in how these assets are to be taken out and how it will all go down. I wish to the highest. Secretary of the budget is happy that it made it through the council. What I want to know, and I think it's very important to know that it's just what's to say. When a contract was made, the prime minister was at the bargaining table. Was he on both sides of the table? Or might he not have been involved in this matter? Second, I'd like to know if there were any more ministers or members of the Ministry, who may have had some interest in caring for the fragments and whether appropriate measures were taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u19	Mr. President. I have to say, as it is, that I now find it difficult to answer the first question because there is nothing in it in itself that is physically directed toward me, but in the case of prime minister, and I have today to the best of my ability, and on the basis of the information that has come up with an attempt to address and explain my vision of that matter. Other than that, we've decided in the administration that those who have been involved meet with all the demands for it, I'm referring to the general laws that apply to the information for government employees. For the advice given outside the administration system, we received legal advice to bind this arrangement specifically. In that case, economic differences were very careful. I believe that it was very comfortable with the plans for the survival of all those who were working toward the implementation of the game plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u20	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. However, it was not clear enough whether there were any other ministers or members of Congress who had some possible conflict of interest when it came to making deals with the worn - out. Are there any other ministers who may have some possessions in Tortula that we will find out more about? Are there any other ministers who may have any particular requirements that we will ever have? I don't know better than that, according to all the best financial rules, people on both sides of the table don't see good rules. For cooperation, to form according to the highest bill. The secretary of finance asked for financial support, and a married couple are partners. Were appropriate measures taken when it came to the political representatives here elected regarding all of this process?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u21	Mr. President. I don't have information like that. A senator asks about the hand. I can't say anything about the position of any individual minister. In fact, I have to say, I think it's a bit of a problem. A senator merely mixes two unrelated items, perhaps a person's ability to own some possessions in foreign lands and the possibility of having a conflict of interest as a result of working on the traditional or renovating of the broils. Not necessarily. However, there is one thing I want to do regarding possible conflict of interest because of the way the matter has been discussed. There have been no negotiations with the demands. The plan of excommunication of the pantheon, and the factor involved in the development of the waste stocks, was based on economic assessments of what would have to be done, and a legal assessment of how far you could go. When that conclusion was made, it was merely taken into law, with nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u22	V.E.G. President. I'm very sorry, but I'm also very uncomfortable and unreasonable that I have to use this part of the program, an unprepared question period, to talk to the highest level. Secretary of finance on the non-responder I received inquiring about the Lands Bank's sale of property in Paying. I mean the written answer that came four, five weeks late. I must say just as it is, as I have previously said from this platform, that these answers were very hairy, both in the sense that when you slip through them, some of it is hairy, but also because the answer is based on the photocopies. This is inconsistencies, and it is not in harmony with the Constitution and the Congress to answer the questions of the senators we have the right to ask. I'm here for a discussion to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether or not he intends to adopt this non-responder and these hairy answers, add an answer, and give the General answers to the questions I asked. In some cases, this was done. V.E.G. A financial minister accused me of the other day, which I have chosen to forgive him, that I have in a rage not read the answer. That's what I've done, and more than once and more than twice, and I've just come to the conclusion that I haven't got answers to any questions there. I wasn't asking about a letter from the Bank Office, not to the secretary of finance or to the National Bank, I gave you 12 questions and asked them to answer. My question to the highest. The secretary of finance is simply this: Do not the Minister of Justice have an additional answer that he will then provide at the General and answer the questions that have been addressed to him? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u23	Mr. President. In the above - quoted answer, there is a river. 1003, 472 issue, reports that the Lands Bank is not an administrative agency that is subject to financial ministers. It's an independent partner. Then the Bank Management Board holds stock, and it also has independent control. The answers to all the asked questions were not to be expected in the Ministry of finance. Therefore, in the meantime, since the questions were asked before the council, I have requested to the Bank Office that all that was involved in the bank sale of the Bank of Paying might be made as far as possible. This has been a failure. I don't agree with what. A senator when he says that in the Councilship listed here there is no answer to such questions as where and when to pay and Valitor Corp. has been advertised for sale. The fact is, things were not advertised for sale. This should be obvious to the package leaflets here. The items were not advertised for sale. It has also been published in public records, letters from the National Bank, and in the case of the chairman of the bank board. The situation is simply that the Board of Banks now has a comment on and intends to respond and be asked to do so soon. In this way, I contribute to the daylight process of getting everything that has to do with the sale of pay. As a result, the Lands Bank holds the terms of a lawsuit for the sale. [[The president calls.]] In this respect, I believe that I have failed in a reasonable and natural way in every way at present. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u24	V.E.G. President. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The minister of finance has not responded to all the questions I asked in the requested inquiry. For example, the answer to one question remains: Who are the buyers of the item, and how are the holdings of the sellers divided? The answer has not been answered, along with other questions. If I were to understand the beginning of an answer, I would. The secretary of finance is concerned that we don't have the right to get information on the activities of the National Bank, but if the bank has 49% to the State's property, the answer to the Council is more than 50%. Here's the real holding part, and the big thing is that the answer is complete to the Bank of Lands. I'm the highest. Minister to have the National Bank and Others write and send answers to these questions to the Ministry. It is unusual for the Ministry to ask for the relevant person that they answer questions for the minister. [[The president calls.]] In the end, the minister is responsible for your response, and I encourage the highest degree. A minister to make an additional answer to these questions and to submit to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u25	Mr. President. I want everything to work for the senator to get the answers to his questions. There's no small reason for me not helping him in that matter. It is disappointing, however, that the senator's assessment does not mean that the matter is meant to subtract everything in the process that I have written to the Bank County. I can hear it. According to one senator, he feels that there is a lack of any particular opinion being answered, as is exactly who bought and how the estate of the sold was divided between the buyers. I hear what you're saying. A senator is still excited to find out, and I'll consider whether he can cope. [[Up front.]] I was only at the beginning of my case to point out that this information is not available in the Ministry of finance and there are two governments between me and the information.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u26	V.E.G. President. We hereby vote for a bill for a change in housing partnership laws, No. 66/2003. As mentioned in the yesterday's discussion, the matter is made in great agreement. The welfare committee. This is where we vote on the number of variations, many of which are in many joints. It is all the welfare committees that meet with all the changes in the subject and the committee's proposals. I want to use this opportunity to thank you again. Councilmen at once. A well - being committee for much and good work on this matter. The bill is designed to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland, but it is important that the aim of such partners'business is that most people can live in security in housing and that their members can gain equality in buying farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u27	V.E.G. President. We're here to take a vote on the bill for a law on housing partnerships, their business, and the legal status of the homeholders. As for this, I'd like to say that there are some changes here that can improve. Hv. The welfare committee has done well with various factors that would have to be handled as a premium where it is actually forbidden, i.e. Unemployable, but it is not impossible if housing partners choose to go that way and keep it on their policy list in their approval. It is recommended that housing partners be prohibited from paying funds to those in the company who are profitless or in the interest of money. As for the bill as a whole, I'd like to say this, a respectable president, that it will be to promote the business of such non-profit organizations as well as to improve the legal status of a homeholder and what may be most important, in order to improve the options and offers of a major housing market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u28	A respectable president. I'm glad we're accepting this bill. I think this will lead to an end to the success of the General Law when it comes to renovating old estates and trying to free the seas, on the other hand, the big deal, the renovation of old residents. I thank the Committee for a very good job and give them the highest credit. Secretary of finance for his conduct in the case. But I also have to say for this reason that I find that at the same time as the highest. The Economic and Business Committee and me and the Parliament and the real society have been discussing these issues, these huge interests that are underneath, and we've come up with all kinds of ways to handle these issues, if it's now to the highest level. The prime minister had more family interests to care for in this matter. Of course, all members of the Parliament have standards of moral rights and honesty. [[The president calls.]] But in any case, in view of the scope of this matter, this course of action completely violates my moral decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u29	Mr. President. As it is known, when this bill was discovered and did not really work out, I strongly criticized it, viewing its internal goals as conflicting, i.e. the tools suggested to achieve the stated targets for metallurgy administration and balance when it comes to managing these assets. On the other hand, I'd like to state that change is what I think. The Economic and Business Committee for significant improvements has supported these changes and considers them a good job. So it does not change the main objective of the bill, which is about moving the Agency's capitals into a unique context that still wars against stated objectives of equality and transparency, even at the same time. A financial and business committee has made changes in the matter. Therefore, I will support changes in the bill but will sit by and not support the ultimate payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u30	V.E.G. President. Here, it was to ensure that the legal management and management of a member of a team that has the task of managing these assets, in a manner that would result in equality, transparency, objective, and practicality in the management of funds and possessions. There was much solidarity in this situation. The Economic and Business Committee to make these changes to the original bill with these factors in mind. It is emphasized that financial and economic institutions could completely harm them and, to the core, lay the terms of administrative and information legislation and take care to comply with Article 45. a law on public financial matters that deals with such principles. I believe, more dignified President, at the moment. A committee has done a very good job and a solid agreement is about the changes made. I'd like to wish for the highest. Secretary of finance and economics to congratulate you on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u31	A respectable president. I wish to the highest. Secretary of the budget is finally gratifying that this matter is being resolved. There has been a dramatic change in the activities of the committee, especially since the original bill contradicted good government. I think the change is good. I want to thank you. The Economic and Business Committee under the lead. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson for a good job. I will support the changes the committee has made, but I will sit by the bill itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u32	A respectable president. In a sentence combined, this bill covers the granting of a secretary of finance to sell or privateize all the property that has come due to the stability of the agreement to the state, apart from the banks themselves. This is the beginning of the Council today, one of the largest personal developments in the history of this nation. Of course, I don't have any information about the property involved. There are hundreds of property delivered to the State, and the demands of the State were sent forth instead of being released. I think it's a responsible part of members of the council to celebrate specifically that it is in the way of a financial minister's intention to appoint three members of a government or company - he is permitted to do so, he is not obliged to do it according to the bill - and to attack this journey. I will not vote for this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the council for the fine cooperation of the changes in this matter. I'd like to recall that the situation was presented in the original suit that followed the late release of some of the legal procedures that were then determined that these assets would be introduced into a society that was under the Seal. Now we're suggesting that the union be not in the Secret Bank, but under the Ministry of Economics and Economics and I believe that we have a very good structure for it. Because of the words given here, that's an enormous privatization, I have to remind you that it all starts with a great government, doesn't it? It begins with a vast area of state, and overall, stability is probably the highest national sector in Iceland if you want to get ahold of it from some kind of term use. We have agreed that it is important to use these assets to pay off debts, make good use of good works, and that is legally bound. The Society will be prepared to comply fully with the will of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u34	A respectable president. The Council is here, as I said before, to agree to commit the secretary of finance to arrangements and to sell and private property up to a hundred and twenty-seven thousand billion dollars. As I did earlier, I do not know that the members of the council have any overview of these assets, so they cannot decide whether it is right to sell them all or to use them in any other way. There may be possessions in insurance companies that are very busy in today's community. There may be property here in some other group. This is under financial assets, for the Council decided to include it in this package with a change in proposal for 2nd. Um... i.e. Not banks themselves, but financial assets. That's what senators are voted for right now, to hide a minister of finance selling all these assets possibly up to a hundred and twenty-five thousand billion dollars. without the presence of the council. With these laws approved, the council must have no influence on the progress of the case. Rather, it must be told only to two members of the Parliament as to how it is going to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u35	A respectable president. Today, for the third time, I report to the minister of foreign and international affairs, which have been given a significant place in the conference's discussions of this vast and important category. Much of the information is being covered in these discussions and the contents of the report indicate that the last loss has been particularly widespread in foreign affairs, whether in international, security, business, development, or national rights. Foreign and home have been an abundance of projects in management and civil services. The report is an extensive document, and I hope that it can be used well by members of the Parliament. It is noted that this report clearly sets out key objectives in each case and looks forward to what will happen in the near future. Is this an important addition to this report necessary to look at the road ahead rather than just the guards who have been on the road up to this point. A respectable president. The issue is that international cooperation calls for all nations of the world, large and small, to care for their duties, and to take responsibility for the better. Of course, this applies also to us Icelanders. One basic obligation to the government is to secure citizens, homes, and homes. The threat of terror has been maintained in our neighbors, whether they are in the northern or continent of Europe. The terrorist attacks in Paris in January and November, Copenhagen, February, Turkey, and the United States, as well as other similar events in 2015, impressed and reminded us that there are no national threats. Terrorism is primarily the cause of innocent citizens. Moreover, events show the need for nations to work together in order to ensure their own safety. The aim of terrorist forces is, especially, to plant seeds of fear and to shake foundations such as freedom, democracy, tolerance, and equal rights of individuals regardless of religion or background. The response of the international community is always one way - the failure to remain in the fight against terrorism and the support of those baseline values. Of course, it is not the exception of Iceland, and we stress that we shoulder our burdens. In this context, it is appropriate to remind you of the importance of setting up a national security programme for safety and protection in Iceland. Last year, I gave a hearing of a national security proposal for Iceland based on the proposals of a Senate committee appointed to all members of the General Assembly. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, and he worked on the basis of Congress since 2011 when my predecessor had submitted. In the proposal, marketed overall policies on safety and protection for the next five years are as well as within which active foreign policy, protective policy and public safety are defined as critical factors such as increasing participation in Atlantic Community activities as in the defense of the United States. Such policies are important and are actually a turning point where for the first time from the Republic of Germany, there is a progressive step toward a global national security policy. I stress that such a policy has never been more urgent to governments. For an armyless country, it is very important to have solid cooperation with our major allies in the security and defenses of the country. The Atlantic Alliance and the United States Defense Convention have the most important support for Iceland's security and protection services. In the case of the defense agreement, the United States and Iceland's cooperation in defense and security has been strengthened again over the last two years, including in view of increasing safety profiles in the European environment. The European Commission will continue to ensure the maintenance and management of important defenses in Iceland, an important link in the common defenses of the Atlantic Community. Over the past few years, the Atlantic Community has worked progressively to adapt to changes in Europe's environment, in accordance with the decision of the Wales summit in 2014. Clearly, the alliance is facing the new security challenges. On the one hand, Russia's actions to Ukraine and the growing business of the Russian military have created tensions and anxieties of many alliances, especially in Eastern Europe. However, the rise and action of Islamic extremists in the Middle East and North Africa have caused disaster and chaos in the region and fueled a century of international terrorism, as I previously reported. Security scourgings on the southern border of the Community, Syria, Iraq, and North Africa are diverse, and it is important to keep them from being solved by military operations alone. Safety is first achieved when divisive forces are removed and people are assured of a viable being based on freedom, democracy, general human rights, prosperity, and justice. In this light, Iceland's voice and contribution can be viewed internationally. Peace, security, and development are interwoven. One manifestation of the dissension produced by wars is the flow of refugees. We watched this last year to over 1 billion. a man fled to Europe from terror and strife in the Middle East. In Europe, refugees lose the hope of a peaceful existence and better living conditions. The situation is truly serious, and this has brought great distress. The situation in Europe is one thing, but looking to the world in general, the numbers are striking. The United Nations Refugee Organization estimates an estimated 60 billion. People are now in a state of security after their homes have been driven by wars, natural disasters, or bad economic conditions at home. The five - year conflict in Syria has triggered the wave of refugees, which is the greatest since World War II. It is estimated that there are now about 6.6 billion. The Syrians are protected in their own country, and well over 4.5 million more have fled the country. In neighboring lands, a large number of Syrian refugees are now starting their lives in an neglected refugee camp. At that time, Syrian refugees who have attended Europe are now 1 billion. There are more than 200 of them. children and adolescents Iceland has put its weight on the scales and taken various measures. Late in 2015, the government decided to provide 2 billion dollars. to deal with the refugee problem and the State Department will spend 750 million. K. to support the world's international and civil organizations. In this context, I would like to review recent trips to Israel and Palestine, which was the first mission of foreign ministers to both states since 2007. The purpose of the trip was to get to know the situation in the region personally and to present the key messages of the Icelandic government to debate the two states, the solution called, the respect for international human rights and humanitarian laws, and the condemnation of all violence. My visit to the Aida refugee camp in Palestine and the Zaatar refugee camp in Jordan, near the Syrian border, gave insight into the lives of these people. Our minds are lost in a discussion of international affairs, such as human rights, human peace, and stability. It is based on confidence in one another and on the preeminence of countries in their relationships. I have previously said from this chair that nothing is better to promote such trust and fear than to promote the commercial affairs of the nations. Thus, our position as a small nation with a highly exported economy is best provided outside the federal alliances and with freedom to operate in the field of free shopping, whether we are one of our own or in other ways, e.g. with EFTA. A very important part of this work is a business contract with other countries that seek to create Icelandic companies and businesses which have access to foreign markets. The initiative at Europe's Free Trade Association, EFTA, plays one of the main roles in our foreign policy when it comes to business, although it is not always high. It is a desirable goal to be able, as we have been able to do, to participate in Europe's Free Trade Associations as well as to make our own contracts. We are currently seeing that countries, even important commercial states of Iceland, are now becoming less and less business ventures, including business barriers. in order to protect domestic food production or as part of an action to promote such production at home. Examples of such are well - known and close to mention Russia and Nigeria in this context. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to give high priority to strengthening the network of free trade agreements, as is required in the government covenant. In this matter, particularly to complete free trade agreements with the Asian new market, to speed up negotiations with Mercosur, South America, and to start a review of EFTA and Canada. Of course, Japan is also on this list, so I take it out specifically. It is also important to stress that there is work to identify Iceland's interests as related to the development of multinational business contracts that Iceland does not have but may open up to new countries. Will be the most direct light to the Treaty of the Pacific, called TPP, and the EU and U.S. Convention, which we call TTIP. The Ministry's export service is a very important part of the work, and in the following few days it will be emphasised on serving as fully as possible in foreign markets. This applies not only to representatives from the Ministry of State but also to emissaries in which clients play a key role. They promote further growth in the Icelandic economy. Advertisers, companies, and individuals who have benefited from this important work know that it is necessary to strengthen these activities, at the very least, to end the application of the Icelandic people in foreign markets. The most important national rights given to the State Department are the lawsuits. They have long established a major role in Iceland's foreign affairs, and Iceland has always been the leading member of international cooperation in this area. We depend largely on this group of languages and laws to develop in a practical way and for all countries to respect international rights in dealing with countries and to maintain peace and security in the international community. Looking forward to the future lies ahead of extensive marine projects that can become a major concern for the oceans and sustainable use of resources there. We are in a special position when it comes to these matters. The responsible fishing management over the last few decades and the success it has produced creates a strong position to actively participate in negotiations to protect from controlled fishing in the North Sea and on biodiversity outside the jurisdiction of countries. The Ministry's focus will be that the ocean's affairs will be dealt with on the basis of the marine rights and agreements associated with it. The rights of coastal countries to sustainable use of the living resources of the ocean and to the fact that fishing is local or regional, not global, will also be emphasized. In general, global resource and environment coverage is increasing. Last year was somewhat special in terms of the end, the historic stage for the UN Climate Convention held in Paris last December. It is legally binding under the United Nations Climate Convention and will take action after 2020. For the first time, all the countries of the world are determined to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, deal with their consequences, and ensure considerable financial support for climate change and to assist countries that will be worst affected by these changes. Iceland was among the countries who wanted ambitious agreements, such as the aim to keep global warming below 1.5 °C. Iceland was also involved in integrating gender equivalents, the use of renewable energy, the importance of forestry and agriculture for carbon binding, etc. We conducted a few publicity meetings in Paris. What a joy it is that an agreement has been reached, and then it is crucial that words be fulfilled! Further implementation at the Paris Convention is now in hand, and negotiations reject the European Union and Norway on how to share the responsibility. I'd like to mention here the Green Climate Fund that we've funded and is extremely important, and we'll continue to look ahead. A second major international milestone was reached last year when the UN's new development objective for sustainable development was adopted in September. Is that a cause for great rejoicing and the result of a huge job that lay ahead of us? We actively participated in these negotiations about the objectives, their implementation and follow-up. World goals are ambitious and valid for all Member States, both within the country and in international cooperation. They form a framework for the United Nations work until 2030 and are intended, among other things, to bring an end to world poverty, to control mankind's environmental problems, and to work on equal social opportunities. Now that the goals have gone into effect, the government has accepted measures and special funding to help achieve them. A respectable president. In the past, I began to conclude that the peace, security, and development of the world are closely interwoven. In this, developing cooperation plays a vital role that is growing. By Christmas, the Allied Council approved a bill on change in law No. 121/2008, of Iceland's international development team, as most people here remember. Working on this by having the entire group on one hand, hoping to get a better perspective and an increased level of coordination and efficiency. In addition, the new arrangement is a strengthening of the link between development and other foreign affairs. Thus, during the first months of 2016, there have been organizational changes that will result in law. The work has been well started and is being done on a variety of issues related to the harmony, the preparation of procedures, procedures, principles of action, a new quality manual, etc. All the employees offered a job accepted this, and their reception in the Ministry has been particularly considered. Work on government policy in Iceland's international development team for the period 2017-2021 is in the final stages and will be submitted to the General Assembly and a plan of action for the period 2017/2018. Our policy, of course, takes into account the UN's global objectives on sustainable development and the chief objective of the work is to reduce poverty and contribute to general well - being on the basis of equality and sustainable development. The development of social infrastructure, sustainable use of resources and work for peace will continue as well as the scope of humanitarian assistance. Then there will be equality between the sexes and the environment and the climatic issues, a subject of the new policy. I would also like to mention continued negotiations at the United Nations University for the United Nations International School of the United Nations. A respectable president. Iceland's foreign service is one of the least in Europe, even though the nation is few. In recent years since collapse, foreign services have had to cut down significantly on their business, as do others, and we have shown the most objectiveness in the operation. The results have naturally been the inevitable result of our gathering in the ministry, but the Ministry is primarily a service agency. Although the demand has increased, especially when it comes to business services, the number of employees'budget is steadily decreasing. No matter what the size of the nations, there are tasks in international relations. I'd like to mention the civil service, where the pressure has increased, but it's expected that your civil service will exceed 30 of you. Events every year. Then an Icelandic e - mail office finds a growing interest in Iceland and Iceland's products and travel to the country. Therefore, the restoration of foreign services is to be welcomed. In this year's budget, 2016, the General Assembly decided to strengthen foreign service by less than 5%, and I am delighted to do so. A respectable president. The international exchange and the di·po·loʹa that we do not always have to deal with. I'd like to mention that our equality cases have made a great contribution to our work and that we, along with others, have been standing before so - called barbarics, which have drawn attention to the importance of their male equality. We recently held a conference at the world headquarters of the Atlantic Community, and we also held a conference at Geneva in the United Nations with the UN Refugee Institute for Refugees. [[The president calls.]] More such conferences will be held. A respectable president. My time has passed. I could have said a few more words, but I would have stopped studying in my background and hope that there will be a good discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u36	President. Thank you very much. Minister for this detailed report, which he put here for the council and intend to try to review it in a few words. If I first mention the report itself and its presentation, I would like to commend the minister and his staff for setting up this new chapter at the end of each chapter on goals and work ahead. This certainly helps and shows that people look forward, not just back, though they also need to be done. I'd like to be glad that the structure of the foreign service is restarted, as it were. The Foreign Service is that I know one of the most important aspects of the administration. After the economic disaster and the collapse of the bank here on the country, she suffered a major cut-off. I'm glad that her structure has been restored. Although I may have had other priorities than the highest. However, a minister in the manner in which this was done should rejoice that this structure has begun. I also want to, as I think I've always done since I've been here at the council and started to participate in this discussion, specifically mention the role of the foreign service, which is one of the most urgent but the least is spoken of, and it's civil service. It is a job that may not be too much to shed on, but it is an extremely important work for people living abroad, for people traveling abroad, for people who find themselves in trouble, so to speak, and it can be for little reason and not serious, but it is important to people. I'd like to mention an emergency service now, so people can send questions at any time and say they're in trouble; and they get answers, even on Christmas Day, about that I have personal knowledge. I'd like to commend people who work in civil service. There is no too often to commend. I would also like to mention Europe's work, which is of utmost importance. Once again, there are pledges to put power in the EEA and to bring in a new type of Icelandic law and to conform to the commitments we have in that area. I really hope that's going to work. At the same time, I can't help but wonder that when I've been working with people of all councils, working on new regulations in the Constitution, when we thought we were in the last record of that cooperation, it was not said that there was no desire to suggest that a new law would come into the Constitution of international cooperation. I have to guess here, since I'm discussing this report, that it's completely incomprehensible. We need support in the Constitution for this international cooperation, especially the running of the EEA contract. At certain intervals, we members of the Parliament find that there are certain types of bodies that refer to government halls, even a small fine to ESA, and we are faced with the need to decide whether we are breaking the Constitution or not. It's a very difficult matter, especially since our first act here at the council is signing a pledge to the Constitution. I need to express my surprise that there is no wish to be a solid foundation in the constitution of this important operation, i.e. any international cooperation, though this cooperation may not go far. There's no support for that in the constitution. So I come back to the report, the Minister tells us about national security policy. Yesterday or this morning the commission was distributed for national security, so I expect it to be discussed in the next few days, if not tomorrow. I'm not going to put any more words into it. The tide of refugees is a real challenge, not just for us. We hear from the news every day what challenge it holds for the successful nations of the world. How can we best welcome people who are fleeing from disasters at home? I believe the government has done quite well in place and spent money on it. This report contains an pledge to continue in that course. I hope they do. In late 2015, the government decided to give $2 billion to deal with refugee problems. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will therefore be spending 750 million on the support of international and civilian organizations on the scene. I think it's a little slower for refugees to come to the country, but we were expecting them to do all the work as well as possible. I'm going to commend the highest. Minister for the way he has responded to the pressure to cancel our partnership with partners and friends, if I may say so, over the Russian and commercial bans imposed on us by the Russians. Then came the demand that we abandon this solidarity that was because of the Russian behavior of the Crimea. I would especially like to commend the minister for his determination in that matter. I thought he would respond when he said that there would be other practical steps to help people, assist them, or deal with people who suffer loss of income. If I recall correctly, a minister specifically stated that he was talking about working people, not about a business that lost money on this Russian ban. I'd like to commend him in particular for this. In terms of free business contracts, it is clear that we need to take very good care of them. The work at the World Trade Agency, WTO, has, as far as I know best, basically fell down and doesn't work as a person would, at least is in great depression. Of course, it is best if all nations can be negotiated, that all nations should be put together as broadly as possible. I think that would be best in the long run. But sometimes the best way is not good, and there is another way to go. That's why I'm so happy that this is particularly about free business talks, and we need to focus on making free business deals with individual nations. I think the free trade and trade between countries is good for the economy, and we need to realize that we are not an island, we are living in a big world. Even now, whether we like it or not, it has been shown that the common interests and trade between nations have also resulted in peace. For example, it was one of the main objectives of the European Union or of the European Community as it was then, to promote business, thus ensuring peace in Europe. This is not a trivial thing on its own. Rather, it strengthens the business of nations, common interests, and hopefully achieves a common view of the world and the future. I've already commended the minister for some things and I'm going to stop praising him. I'm going to express my frustration with the way he was standing here with the Iceland Development Research Institute where he directed his great power - the minister can do a lot of work when he wants to do it - in bad language and in the wrong direction. I want to end my words with regret that the Bureau of Development has been canceled. I think she did a very good job. Now that we're going to find out, but I don't think moving her into the Ministry is gonna help. Now we will see how it plays out. But I would have preferred that the Agency be promoted and released from the Ministry. It wasn't done. But that doesn't mean that I don't think it was a bad choice. A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I wish for success in the many fine works set out here in the years to come. I hope he succeeds, and he doesn't get the same fly in the head as he does with a developing research agency. That's when I'm done with my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u37	V.E.G. President. My feeling is that the compliments have already been filled to the highest level. Minister of state, and I will revoke praise to him at the proper time. However, this detailed report is to be made up of a careful document. It bears witness who its members, the present government, look at a cornerstone in the National Security Policy of NATO. NATO is put first, but what may be uncomfortable for this military alliance is kept aside or not mentioned. In particular, do I mention the scenes of violence in Turkey that have caused 300 of you to suffer. who are now fleeing within their country because of the violent action of the Turkish army that began after the NATO meeting at the end of July, Brussels, where they decided to give green light or leave unauthorized while the Turkish army moved forward to the southeastern Turkey and in northern Iraq against the Kurdians. It's just reality. I have observed news of an outpost that now prevails in the southeast of Turkey in many parts of the Kurdada, e.g. In the capital of Diyarbak, and the fact is, there has been a curfew in large parts of the city for almost three months. What does this curfew mean? That means that people are forbidden to leave their quarters, to go to work, even to obtain food and medicine, and at risk if they do not accept the prohibition to obtain the necessities of life. It is estimated that since the outbreak of violence, 290 people were killed in this way by the Turkish military. This is reality. It is estimated that in the fighting so far, nearly one thousand people, civilians, have died. Women, children, men, civilians have been killed. Conflicts say, from the top to the top, I understand the violent action of the Turkish military, but, of course, this is now developing into a civil war where both sides are acting in terror. It's happening. It was known that this would occur and is the result of the policy that has been followed by President Erdogans and his administration in Turkey all the streets since he lost more part of the council in the election at the beginning of June of June. Then it was known that he would bring about a peace process that had lasted since 2013 and that he would try to earn and follow him in that way. The share of NATO in this is very ugly. Icelanders are somehow responsible for these acts of terrorism. In an indirect way, we're responsible. Where can we find the location in this report? Where can you find this violence in the report? They talk about Ukraine, and they talk about Eastern Europe and such threats, but no mention of what NATO is in any way uncomfortable. Not to mention it, not to say anything about it, or extremely little at all. Only to NATO, the good cornerstone in the safety of Iceland. NATO is mentioned as facing the new security challenges. What are they? Yes, it is because of Russians in Eastern Europe, and it is referred to IIS and other factors and emphasises in NATO, which I have often made and subject to the fact that NATO is more flexible in all its ways. This is a policy developed in the mid - 1990's and stamped on the half century of the coalition in Washington 1999, followed by another discovery that instead of viewing an attack on one member of the United States to which all of them should react, they should also be faced with threats and not only in our area of our world, but everywhere in the world. Who is most likely to be threatened? Could it be those who seek the property of others, the resources? That's why I've said that it matters who is in control of the largest and most powerful countries within this military alliance, of course, mostly the United States, but also Britain and other countries. It's crucial who's the president of the United States. I ask: Could it be that the threat that our part of the world may face within a few months is called Donald Trump, which is doing so good in the pre-election Republicans of the United States? Have people thought about the consequences if Donald Trump became the president of the United States, a man who is promoting and justifying international law? What does he say about ISIS? How to Delete ISIS Kill the children and families. ▪ Go, after the family.How can I help you? When such parties are at the table and come to the control of the NATO military alliance, the cornerstone of our security, would it be time for us to reexamine the political importance of foreign and security? I'm just asking. This is a reality that we face, and we should seriously consider when attending national security policies for Iceland. We have to do this because we have to look at things systematically in this regard. I'd like to go to business agreements, international agreements, TiSA negotiations and other contracts at the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs stepped in, I heard he had a little water in his mouth, he looked forward to viewing the TPP deals and TIP, these contracts made across the Pacific and then west of the European Union, that we must be able to access them too. These are contracts that are extremely controversial. Then there's TiSA. I'd like to, too, because I'd like to commend a little bit, to thank you for the careful consideration of these agreements in the report. The point of this discussion is that criticism is referred to. I don't agree with everything they say, but they're dealing with the situation in a grammatical way. I want to thank you for that. The approach, who is it? This needle is a marketing approach. That is what it says on page 22. 31 With President's permission: The WTO Member States agreed with the GATS Convention, including Iceland, the international rules in the service trades that ensured fair treatment for the services of individual Member States. This is the basis for the criticism that came from the poorest part of the world, from the labor unions in our part of the world and from various public groups, that the approach should be exactly this, to ensure justice for the service providers, for the companies. But the question that has been put on the tip of the former party is the other: How does this have to do with the communities? That was why in 2005, there was a temporary end to the GATS talks that had lasted since the mid-1990s. There had been eating 123 kingdoms, but when those treaties did not enter, 50 of the world's richest nations took off to try to achieve contracts. As stated in the latest report of the Supreme Court. The minister of state might suggest that when the rich nations entered into an agreement with them, the others would have little choice but also to take up the terms. This is what I have criticized as immoral behavior. I give no explanation that this is normal because all the other nations we are in partnership with and the closest cohesive we are doing are doing it. It's not a good idea of herd behavior. These are contracts made on the basis of the big corporations. That is why they have worked hard to see that the negotiations are classified. Icelanders and the Icelandic government and the current government are not aware that it is normal, I know it, and I buy it just as it is said here that they cannot inform the claims of other countries, can only reveal their position, I understand that. So it doesn't change that this conversation should be completely open, nor is it a matter of direct criticism against the Icelanders there, is it not? They're behind closed doors. In some interviews, it's gonna be very secret. The report points out that four types of criticisms that have been observed, first of all, about the secrecy of these contracts and then, and that it would be advisable to consider the issues as well, how the issues should be decided. It is said that laws must not be found in these contracts, although they have not yet been resolved, in the way that critics have raised the issue, i.e. not to be settled outside the national states with so-called Investor-State Late Settlement. I am now going to see how this will turn out, because the criticism has been that the issues related to business agreements made on this basis, on the basis of the worldwide budget, will not be settled in the legal system of those countries. Or will it be done? That's not done in the GATS deal. There is a special court of judgment that transcends the legal system of individual countries. Since then, criticism has been made that the contract is a matter of personal interest in public service. Criticism is more specifically encouraged to make markets available. I'm here with a plagion proposal, very detailed, about the GATS interview at the time that the left movement of the TSA shows up a few years ago and twice as we describe how this process is comparable to what is going on in TiSA leads to market development. Then it is energy - related service. I don't have the time to enter the program, but that's certainly where Iceland's interests are staked in a commercial environment in energy-related industry. What I have criticized is that the states of the world, especially the poor states of the world, are not to be placed against a wall so that they have no choice but to negotiate or agree with what is called a fair ground for the global government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what we've been criticizing. Then, at last, the highest. President. [[The president calls.]] We need to be much more informed of these matters. I've asked what the agreement has been about in the GATS interview, and I'm waiting for an answer to that soon from the State Department. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to take a much more detailed discussion about this factor before anything is resolved, but the minister reports that the completion of the contracts is under stress this year. [[The president calls.]] In the past, a thorough discussion must be made, the highest. President, this room. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u38	The president asks for time limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u39	A respectable president. For a small nation like Iceland, foreign affairs are big business all over the world and are linked to a wide range of affairs in larger countries. I'm glad we're discussing this report, and I wish that more members of the council had been able to observe the discussion, but we were confident that they would do it on tape. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister and his people at the State Department for this fine and meaningful report. It is very carefully and meaningful, all too rich to talk about in such short speeches. But I am also delighted to see that the council has printed a large stack of these reports so that members of the council can take a copy with them on Easter Day. The report reviews the main jobs of the State Department and key positions on matters. I'd like to go through a few points. In general, it has to be said that while emphasis is, as noted in the case of a decision, there is quite a foundation for Iceland's foreign policy. paritaprevir As in the case of NATO and the scope of business agreements and so forth, the 100 percent of Jónasson's son is just a few minutes ago. But there is a very good agreement in Icelandic politics on basic capitalism in our foreign policy based on human rights, peace, Iceland's warfare, equality, structure and so forth. It is very positive, indeed precious, and so far from being sure how well Icelandic politics has been able to agree on this basic princely scheme. It is a pleasure to read this in the report that brings us members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, although not surprising, that this basic prince has been a red thread in the work of the State Department and the Supreme Court. Secretary of state. I certainly don't want to agree with what. A senator who spoke before me that there's some sort of compliment to the highest degree. Ministers, but there is good reason to commend his conduct, especially when it comes to equality, but even more so when dealing with Ukraine and Europe's problems. Many of us are of generations who have actually known only that Europe is a place of peace, but in the historical setting it is, in fact, nothing new. Europe has throughout the centuries, and the millennium has been one of the greatest powder canes on earth. It is quite remarkable in fact that during the last 50 to 60 years, there was peace in Europe. The situation in Ukraine, the takeover, and the indentation of the Monsters are major reports in Europe because, so far, since the end of the war, Europe's borders have been well respected and its sovereignty. There are certainly critical times in Europe, even as we can see that we are under intense pressure in Europe in the Middle East. The Middle East is, in fact, our next neighbor, both because the world is shrinking and because the Schengen community service involved in the Iceland border of Turkey and this region. It is a pleasure to see what the Icelandic government has taken seriously that, so to speak, even though Iceland is in the prom sea, these matters, the refugee problem, we are involved. Actually, I don't like to talk about the problem refugees have as a refugee problem because it's not the refugees who are the problem more than the patients are the health problem. On the contrary, the problem is that refugees are fleeing. But the pressures of the refugee stream to Europe are causing the countries next to the Middle East, and its impact on Europe's solidarity and cooperation are a major concern. It is important for us Icelanders to use us in that way. It is a joy to see how closely we have been observing, and we should use ourselves for the good in these matters. It's very informative and fun to sit on the Foreign Affairs Committee, but it's just as much my experience that it expands the horizon. We're a little used to looking at Iceland and the neighborhood as the center of the universe, looking at the northern states in foreign terms as far as the whole and then Europe, and just knowing the countries on a map outside. Of course, in the 21st century, the world has been greatly diminished. Not only have the Internet been invented but more and more planes have been raised. It is in itself just a question of a thousand times and an additional time on the plane that brings us out of Europe anywhere around the globe. Security, economics have become much more integrated in much larger areas than they were just decades ago. I am deeply concerned about the situation in the Yemen and how more and more people in the Middle East seem to be willing to participate in conflicts. The great nations seem to be getting caught up in conflicts that were once regional. There are reports of refugees from the Yemen applying for asylum in Somalia, a situation that would seem impossible to everyone just a few months ago, i.e. ... someone sought refuge in Somalia. But that's the situation. And, of course, that situation will have an impact and reach Europe, into the Schengen area, which is really our outer borders. I trust that, and I know the State Department is very close to keeping track of that situation. That's important. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister mentioned what the business of the environment has begun to play a major part in foreign affairs. There is, of course, much of the increase in global dimension in foreign affairs that I mentioned just now. The environment and climate impacts do not follow any borders. Here we know how rapidly the most vulnerable areas on earth change under these circumstances. It is not only our responsibility as part of the world but also our personal interests as a northern nation to fight for the unity of the nations. The results of the Paris Summit at the end of the last year were very pleasant, that there was to be some action to be met, even though they can always be debated whether they are sufficient. It's a pleasure, and I agree with the highest. Ministers that it is of utmost importance now that the follow-up is someone and that people are attracted not only to obtaining the agreement but also to get far beyond that. During visits to other countries, I have experienced a high priority on green things. It is very important to bring energy systems to more sustainable uses. There we are happily experienced and shared by Icelanders, and that is what we should do. Iceland has been active in this, especially through the United Nations Schools here operated. That is a very positive work. Even though there are not many students at the geo-grad school, they are international students who graduate from that school very likely to become prominent in geologic and sustainable energy efficiency. There is good reason for us Icelanders to still blow into the United Nations School and strengthen them and draw more attention to them. Because I see that my time is running out, I just want to mention the development teamwork, which is also a very important project. Me and the highest. The minister was at odds when he proposed and received an approved proposal for the development of a research agency to be laid down and inserted into the Ministry. But more of the Generals agreed to that proposal. Now, it is important that the changes in the development team itself, which, of course, are the vertebral barrier and the primary reason why we are doing that work, i.e. The development team, that we put our weight on the scales to assist the state and the people who are under attack, and the areas that need to remain in the infrastructure. Similarly, our basic prince of equality and human rights is of great importance, and we Icelanders are especially willing to contribute in spite of a small and relatively small amount of money. When it comes to developing cooperation, I stress that we will not let down our dough. I am looking forward to seeing the development policy and the plan of action. It has to be said at the moment, unfortunately, that the Icelanders have been embarrassed when it comes to contributions for development cooperation. There we can do so much better. It was well established in a long and detailed discussion regarding the proposal for development in the European Commission for what countries around us, the northern European countries, have done well, and many have been present or knocked on the criteria for GDP, even in spite of economic difficulties. I encourage us and I encourage us at the highest. A minister to the gratitude of that subject. Then I just want to introduce the Civil Service, which, of course, is important but a little invisible to the State Department and foreign services. Iceland is a small country. We don't have a embassy or a messenger all over the country like the big nation. Of course, few Icelanders are few, but it is amazing how many travel abroad, and of course some of them face a particular challenge. I know that the work has been done well and that we are encouraged to do our business well. There are a number of cases that regularly expose Icelanders who live remote somewhere far in other continents who have had problems with lost passports or passports that they have not easily received. There are few instances where I think civil service must succeed in finding ways to solve them. Finally, I have to disagree with the highest degree. Ministers, that it is essential for Iceland to stand outside the economy. The question of involvement in the European Union and application for membership in the European Union approved by the Council is, of course, still in effect. [[The president calls.]] That discussion will continue in Icelandic society, although it remains low. [[The president calls.]] I don't have any more time for that discussion, but we'll do it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u40	A respectable president. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to discuss refugee issues and the threat of terrorism and other factors that connect these two subjects. First, I'd like to agree with what is stated in the report, and I'd like to quote it directly, with the permission of the president: ▪ The aims of terrorist forces are to plant seeds of fear and shake the foundations of baseline values such as freedom, democracy, tolerance, and equal rights of individuals regardless of religion or background. You're absolutely right. That is the goal of the terrorist forces. It is possible to read their own material in order to reach that conclusion. That's a defined goal. Of course, the European refugee problem is the result of war and terrorism and the interaction between these two parts, if one is able to make a clear distinction. All I have to do is discuss religious relations, and I pray for credit if I do it badly. Of course, talking about religion is always fragile, but it is relevant, whether we like it or not. It is vital that we talk about them, of course, always with respect for believers, unbelievers, or whatever they may be. Now that it has become, the war of Syria, the civil war of Syria, has become five years old. It is worth remembering that the events that take place there and the developments that have taken place in context. It's happening in relation to this area. Unlike many in the West, the border back there was determined by the West and regardless of the cultural and religious structure of society in the region. There are also the Sykes Picot line, which separates Syria and Jordan. In all of this, the Western countries have made a big mistake over the years, some of which have been very anticipated. I think it's very important that we face it and realize it. Al Caida had no real status in Iraq until 2003 at the time of the invasion. It was conducted following the attack on the 2001 Twin Towers. Presumptuously, the tanners became there. For those who do not know them, Iraq consists of three principal members of society, Sunniites, Shiites, and Kurdurs. These are more and less all Muslims and several kinds of them, several kinds of Islam. In the Islamic state, as they call themselves, now in Syria, there are people, Sunnitists, who have been at some kind of war for 13 years or even longer. You must not forget that the mental attitude that must have taken place during such a long and cruel conflict is not something that the Western world can easily get into. It is not something that the Western world can easily make wise decisions about. Presumptuously, the tanners became involved when the villain Saddam Hussein was locked away. As a result, there was a conflict of power that was predictable and was known to occur, at least by critics of the invasion. That doesn't have any protection against Saddam Hussein. But it is important that we realize that this is the context of the present crisis. It's from the Iraq War. It's from the terrorist war called. By the way, the threat of terrorism is not very new anymore. Since 2001, a very large part of the world has been fighting a so - called terrorist war. So while the nature and scope of the problem change, in different parts of the world, the threat in itself is not new. Terrorism has occurred from time to time, and actually much longer and, if that is the case, much longer and, in fact, always. That depends on how you define it accurately. But we cannot pretend that this is a new threat. This is not a new threat. At least she's not anymore. It is the stated goal of Islam's state to create a conflict between Muslims and others, and then I want to go into the refugee crisis only. Sadly, in our discussion refugees are often condemned, typically for being Muslims, and they are made up of some kind of behavior or opinion that they do not have, pointing out Islam's state and similar organizations and put under the same hat. Hence, it is vital that we discern when it comes to refugees and Muslims and people in general that they differ. The Muslims are, in fact, very different numbers are depending on who you are asking, we can say 1.5 billion or something like that, plus/minus a few hundred million. They have very different opinions. The situation that refugees are fleeing in Syria is the condition of a so - called waahabisma. Wahhabismi, as he is called, is not just Islam, it is also superintendentity, conservativeness which is not really fair to use the same word as Iceland's conservatives, e.g. Or in the west, for this is the idea of going right back to the seventh century. It's in there, too. There is no one who judges Muslims so hard, I swear, but the state of Islam itself and comparable organizations. Those who accept that ideologies feel extremely decisive in their stand and very quick to judge. According to many of them, if not just all of them, other Muslims are really worse than Christians and worse than Jews because they view the Muslims as having something to put on which they are polluting the faith, which is more sin than publicly Christian or publicly Jewish or otherwise. The refugee problem cannot be viewed simply as the west, Europe, Syria, refugees, Islam. It must also be seen in the light of the inner interaction that takes place in the Middle East and that has occurred in the Middle East within a series of Muslim members, an overly large and varied group, and in the context of the decisions made by the West, the mistakes such as the one. The Iraq invasions were... It is worth noting to mention, too, when the Iraq War was being discussed, and there was not much discussion thus, obviously not enough discussion, before the government decided to support this invasion. Then experts were talking about it, and they were just wondering what would happen. It was seen and warned that the invasion would increase the risk of terrorism. Yet, it was under the merit of combating terrorism, but, of course, mainly to prevent Saddam Hussein from getting over and using weapons of mass destruction. We all remember how it went, or did not get a bit of it either. It was prophesied that this would strengthen the small of al-Qaeda's location back then. It was anticipated. That is what happens when you do not exercise power carefully. It can happen that you create power that someone will fill in and that will not necessarily make it peaceful. Under certain circumstances it is unthinkable to become peaceful. Our support of the Iraq war...... IthinkI'msomething we have to fix up. Iceland is mentioned as a member of the Islam State. How do we get there? It is not just NATO that causes it, our involvement in NATO. It is that decision that most of the Icelanders were blessed with, if I remember correctly. In all of this, the response of the West and the public to these problems is vital to what we should try to protect. We are not just trying to protect human life. We are also trying to protect our freedom and our democracy. What matters is that we do not compromise the fundamental values when it comes to people whom we are in other respects basically disagree or even disagree with them. That's extremely important. I'm sorry, but I sense more and more during the discussion that there is supposed to be freedom and democracy and that we are going to protect it except for this particular group. It is often seen in large legends, which vary in well - founded and authority for which much of the Muslims are accused of favoring all kinds of things that may sometimes involve exactly nothing and otherwise belong only to certain interpretations that a great deal of Muslims reject. Under such circumstances, when there are a lot of new people around us who are generally not very welcome in Europe, unfortunately, there will be cultural conflict that is important that we try to be at least a part of it. Of course, differences in viewpoint and perspective on the world arise when people differ from one another. There is nothing to go to a foreign country or to meet someone who is a different religion to experience it. That's what happens among white Christian men in Iceland. Each group must know that there are conflicts when people differ and have different opinions. But it is important that we recognize this and respond correctly. We must not react by giving up on our freedom and democracy because that is what enemies of liberty and democracy want. That is exactly what institutions like Islam's kingdom want, and they want to create conflict. They want to put it up in such a way that it's Muslim against everybody else. When such voices are heard in our community, we are to react harshly. One of the great dangers is the idea that freedom and democracy are only for some. It's for everyone. Human rights and equals to law are for everyone. There are rights that people should get for just being alive. No one rejoices, I swear, more than a Islam state when walking on Muslim rights or when men don't want Muslims to build moans or want them to don't dress like that or gay or crazy because they don't want to eat pork. In fact, it's one of the things I always find strange, how seriously people take it if someone decides not to offer pork in order to show consideration to Muslims. Like there's a problem. If a basic school would stop offering pork just because everybody would care, it doesn't matter. But these are things people get irritated about. Only because it's different, not because it's dangerous. If a school brought up a bit of vegetables, I'm not sure that anyone would specifically oppose it, except perhaps the one standing here. It is important that we discuss these problems that we discuss them honestly, with care and fairness, and with the guidance of putting up with as much as we believe we can endure, to provide as much, or to ensure, anything rather, as much freedom as possible, and to stick to democratic ideals. We should not get involved in the debate that these values are somehow part of us and only us and that we need to keep them to ourselves. That's the wrong approach. I'll mention it here, Mr. Honorable President, because it matters. The way culture responds to such problems is also important. This involves more than just the lawgiver, and it's not just done, it's culture itself. It's the public. It is the discussion itself that needs to be handled with such problems. Therefore, I feel that it is important that we discuss them not only in the form of the reports and decisions presented here but also in the way these problems affect our community and everyone else. I would like to reflect on the difference in dealing with the refugee problem, so one country decides to give them an open hand that more people do. The discussion is under attack. People look to Sweden and Germany. They envision some terrible problems there, so they do not want to respond like Sweden and Germany by welcoming Syrian refugees, as they did in their time and by my view. The problem is not that Germany and Sweden did, but the problem is that there was no one else who did it, not in that way, at least not so that it would be as famous as that of the overwhelming pressures on these two countries. If the whole of Europe, which is about 500 million. I think this problem was over in a few years, two or three years. That would certainly be much less. There is so much difference between having only two European communities to choose and all. The pressures go to places where the resistance is remembered. That's why I'm very afraid of what seems to be taking place in Europe, that's getting more resistance. It should be the other way around. At that time, however, it needs to be in harmony with the efforts of all nations. That's what's so hard on this one, we can't do this alone. No kingdom in itself can do this unless it is prepared to cope with the consequences. I take my hat off to those who do, and it's admirable. But that is the thought we should go toward, more freedom, not less freedom. More democratic, not less democratic. More equal for law, not less equal to law. More freedom of expression, no less freedom of expression, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson's speech to him, which certainly involves us and affects our foreign policy in various ways. I agree with some in his case, perhaps not everything, but I strongly agree that when we face terrorism, we must be careful not to accept the basic value of human rights and personal rights upon which our organization is built and to build on. I was going to use this opportunity because I'm not sure that I'm going to have the opportunity later in my discussion to do so. A senator according to his attitude and his party has some fundamental factors in our foreign policy. I'm going to give three key elements: the EEA and the close cooperation we have with European nations in that field, the second, our involvement in the Atlantic Community, which is more and more on the agenda, the role of the Community is to increase greatly because of the various factors being traced into a report. Secretary of State and third, I wanted to mention our defense efforts to the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u42	A respectable president. First about the EEA. Pirata's policy is that the nation should determine the future of the country when it comes to involvement in the European Union. It is correct to look up the course, so it is covered correctly: If the integration of Iceland in the European Union is halted, or its involvement is rejected by either party, a review of the European Economic Convention needs to be sought to ensure Iceland's own decision-making rights. In this regard, I think that we're about to have a discussion about it soon. But in my opinion, the European Union is not settled. It is also our policy to maintain a binding national law on continuing discussions with the European Union immediately during the next term if we receive the authority of the nation that I hope will become the case. For NATO, we have not specifically concluded whether Iceland should be a member of NATO or not, but I have now sensed it to be kind of one direction where there is some requirement to leave NATO. According to this, there is something we should always be discussing and considering, because the nature of the relationship changes over time and in the world. As far as I'm concerned, I always feel that this discussion needs to follow, if people want to change it, what they're going to do instead. The only thing I've heard so far, that I think quickly, is, "Nothing." That we are alone, confident that our neighboring nations will protect us if we have more trouble with Russia. I think it's important when we discuss NATO, in connection with membership or not participation, if not NATO, what? In my opinion there has to be something else, I'm afraid that's not a choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u43	V.E.G. President. I'll let me understand what I'm saying. A senator so that he and his party do not have a plan for us to reconsider our view of the European economy or our involvement in it. However, he speaks of participation in the European Union, where the category, as known by men, has concluded that all the steps that will be taken in a national law will be determined. However, there is no question whether members or those representing that party will recommend or oppose any particular course of action as far as I understood the reason. A senator. NATO is a fact. You're right next door. A senator against our presence in NATO has come primarily from the left green. Yet, I draw attention to the fact that last year's United States Summit was almost more of a share in reevaluation. That is why it is curious to know what a category of polls is now over a period of 12 months wants to do in that regard. I respect it for what. A senator asking the question, "If... what is it instead? " But I think it might matter to know which wing he thinks he and his party will lean in the event of a vote or anywhere else on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u44	A respectable president. If there is no suggestion or intention to change, then it is not wise to assume that plans are going to change them. This may change, but it would follow a class discussion of changing things, such as the participation in NATO. In fact, that discussion has not been loud in my class. I haven't experienced it in a loud place, except in the shape of the left green. I'm fine with that. Of course, it is quite possible to criticize NATO and a great deal of criticism to that organization according to their nature. Well, it's a defence case. They're never pretty. But I couldn't answer it. A senator for his cooperation with the United States. The United States is in my opinion, and most of the Pirata I've talked to, which, in fact, will always be smaller and smaller part of the category itself - we face the fact that NASA and the U.S. institutions behave in a way toward friends people that we don't think it's acceptable, how they spy, and so forth. This is mainly the emphasis our category has been concerned about, i.e. how Americans treat their friends. There's something we need to be completely inconspicuous with. The defenses are in harmony with NATO, in the big context, not especially the United States, except for the reason that they are so armed. I'm gonna try to answer it. A senator will determine whether members of the council will recommend or oppose entry. In my opinion, I cannot form an opinion about going into the EU or until the discussion is over. We could talk about it here, but we'd need more time to do that. That's my personal position. Then party members with differing views of this as do the people in general, end up in a national law. Senators don't have a choice. Hv. One senator noted that the recent revision of NATO by the United States was almost more than part of it. I think it's a sign that we live in a changing world where decisions always need to be revised. [[The president calls.]] But then the discussion must take place first. Neither should we be afraid of that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u45	A respectable president. We'll discuss a report with you at the highest level. The minister of foreign and international affairs of Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson. Of course, it has the highest self. A minister reviews the main points of this report, and I would like to thank him deeply for this and agree with what has been presented in his case and in his priorities. I especially want to use this opportunity, a respectable president, and thank you for the presentation of the report. I think it is a great example of how these matters are conducted here at councils and in particular how the goals and work ahead are set at the end of each chapter that makes this wide - wide and wealth of material that is far more accessible and more specific to the report. I think it's a trick we'd have to take as an example in other matters. I also want to, a dignified president, to do so in my speech, to review the main points of discussion and is most likely to be discussed in the field. In the past year since such a report was submitted. I also want to use this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation for good work on the Foreign Affairs Committee and a good job at the highest level. Secretary of state, a largely exemplary cooperation. It's been a great pleasure for me to be the new Chairman of that day. Foreign Committee to witness how things are enjoyed, both by the highest degree. Foreign Minister and his people, as well. Committee members of the State Department and the staff involved in maintaining the international interests of Iceland. That's important. Of course, it is, as shown in the Supreme Court case. Ministers that many things have changed in international matters over the past year, many for the better, but also many things that have gone wrong, and many other ways we would like to see. This continues to make us reflect on the importance of a strong international cooperation and a stand for basic rights that we consider most important and that we defend on an international level, which, of course, are freedom, democracy, and human rights. I would also like to agree with what was said in the case of the highest court. Ministers and servants of each nation's foreign policy and the common foreign bitch of many countries, which is to ensure the safety of citizens. Sadly, as shown in the report discussed here, many war - torn areas still exist, too many of us face them, and the threat of terrorism remains. Despite the exact fact that the case has taken place in several cases. Councilmen that it is not a new threat, yet it has been unpleasantly tangible during the past few months. We need not look beyond Paris, Copenhagen, Turkey, the United States, and others to see it. Of course, the threat not only meets those under attack once in a time but has a lasting and destructive effect on the common foundations of all of us. That is why it is so important that we share in working on these issues. I agree with what. Since it is important to approach the project, members of Congress do not prevent individual freedom or the democratic rights we would like to be present. That's why such an important, respectable president is the solidarity that has been established at the scene. Foreign Affairs Committee on matters to the highest degree. The minister of state recently introduced and is a national security policy that has now entered the council and hopefully will be for the discussion and payment of all the coming days. I am very proud of the discussion that took place over a course of action. The Foreign Affairs Committee, where we were able to establish priorities in the interest of the main points and reach a common conclusion on key factors and meet together as members of the committee. I think it is important that, despite the fact that individual members of the committee and individual representatives of certain viewpoints here, they will, of course, be held up by special books, nothing at all, but most important that the basics are clear and that they are together. These include not only what we read, my outfit, the government and the greater part of the council, but also the other aspects of national security and security that are involved, of course, in the Atlantic Community, in cooperation with the United States, and in cooperation with our alliances for peace, protection and security, are also known to be involved in national security and protection related to, e.g. Natural, environmental, Internet security, food security, and public security. There was a very good discussion at the State Department. After many long and hard meetings, we were able to unite in the minds of members of the committee, which I reiterate that I am very proud and grateful. I think that although we will accept a powerful and important national security policy, we will continue this discussion. New challenges always arise in this regard. We continue to communicate, but it is clear that with the highest national security policy. The minister of state has given high priority to and after the work of a joint and cross - political committee, we are getting further involved in this legal group here in Iceland. A respectable president. Many members of Parliament have, including the highest. The minister of foreign affairs entered one of the largest number of refugees in the world since the second world war, which we have witnessed in months and losses, not just in Europe but in all parts of the world. This may have been the most widely discussed case in the field. The foreign business committees over the past year and so many of the factors that listing it here would be far too much to do. The red thread of all of this is that individuals escape terror control, escape a state of insecurity, flee to more peaceful lands, have more opportunities, and have their foundations for creating and maintaining their good lives, are more diverse, more enduring than the conditions in which these people live. This is one of the most complex challenges we face internationally, but it is important that we make sure that we do not become some sort of huge problem within each country that we do not achieve or that we cannot solve. As shown in a talk given at the highest. The minister of the state of Iceland has indeed weighed the scales on these matters and taken various measures, not only in cooperation with international nations, but also by special action within the country. I'm glad that there's been a good agreement at the council that we deal with this problem and business, and we're glad there's more here than only those here to be born but those who want to live here as well. This has led to very serious discussions, e.g. ... atthefield. Foreign Affairs Committee factors linked to border custody. This is very normal, and it is the cohesion of this discussion. There's been a lot of time at the scene. In recent months, foreign committees specifically discuss Schengen, the cooperation of European countries, the external defenses on the border, and the defences of individual countries. I have said this as my opinion, and I have become more convinced of it in my work at that point. Of course, the Foreign Affairs Committee, of course, did the same thing as Minister of Internal Affairs at the time, that the benefits of the Schengen community are far beyond the defects. I believe that despite the fact that the Schengen team is facing difficult challenges, huge subjects, and perhaps reality, as men and women who came to that end at the time did not support it, we should be covering the main goals that were the basis of it at the beginning. There has been nothing changed in the value of the uniform regulations, protection and monitoring that the cooperation gives us here in Iceland, beyond that, I believe the need for it has increased and the importance that we are guarding it is no longer today than it was then. My hopes are that we will succeed in maintaining and working with them, but that will not change for the worse. It is particularly important for Iceland that, at least for the present time, has decided to stay out of the European Union. Then it's especially important to our cooperation. Speaking of this, a respectable president, it may be the main change in the discussions of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the past few months, that there is very little discussion on the topic of conversation or possibly involvement in the European Union. We have been more busy at the Committee to protect the European Policy that the government has approved and to ensure that we are active and powerful participants in the EEA and EFTA and the European community, which we believe are important in securing our interests. I'd like to mention in the context of how important EFTA is for Iceland, the discussion that has been quite major during the past few weeks, that is Iceland's free trade agreements, and the business ventures that I believe are very important and should be the basis for our international business. I'm glad we're working hard on it, both in the field of EFTA and then on and after ourselves, that's very important. I believe we've had a lot of success in that. A little bit or two. The foreign feds, e.g. to Japan a few days ago, where they had discussions and communications with the Japanese government about the joint will of the Council here to cover free trade agreements with that large market area, thus ensuring more intensive trade between these countries. That's how I believe we're supposed to work with other countries, especially with new markets. A respectable president. Just in the end, I want to mention the delightful success that has been accomplished worldwide last year, of course, only a look at the Paris conference, where people had significant and important and remarkable environmental achievements. Environmental issues are something Iceland has a lot of access and should have a lot of access and can focus on showing how to achieve success in the issues of sustainable development, which we have succeeded in successfully accomplishing. I would also like to mention the new development goals or world goals of the United Nations, which have been a significant subject on the State Department of State and in particular, I believe that it is important to consider how it introduces aspects of sexual equality. You see, all of us who have had that work at one time, especially in recent years, to be publishers of what is well done in Iceland on a global scale, to sense and understand how much our emphasis on equality is on international matters. I've been very happy in my dealings with the foreign emissary of foreign emissary to see how much the foreign service has begun to lay on this subject and how great a sound foundation it feels about the fact that Iceland's medium has had experience and gives back to what has been so successful here. I've been thinking for a very long time that our success in equality is one of the main elements in the Icelandic community, and have been further convinced of it now that the seventh year of Iceland is measured at the top of the list of countries that are on this issue. I'm very proud of the results, and I believe we should use all our powers to ensure that the result will be visible. We can do this, a respectable president, in various ways. Many members of the Parliament and perhaps especially a member of the Parliament have long cared for these matters from this point of view. Thus, many of us in this hall have now and previously been active in the international organization of women called WIP, Women in Parents Global Forum. In this way, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir sat on the Council of Counseling in 2013 as former prime minister. One year later, the organization visited this hall in particular to get to know the results. This organization has then requested that the one being the head of the Commission and that I have done so end up agreeing very well with my role as the chairman of a foreign committee and in the large number of Icelandic women who have enjoyed living in a country where it is considered a private, natural and important thing that women take part in politics as much as men. It's not just with the senators in this hall that can have an international influence in this regard. English men sitting here can also play a major role in the global awareness and the cooperation that occurs with the need for the world to make equal use of its powers in men and women. That's the way it works. The minister of foreign affairs was the head of a special initiative to increase the male share in this field with the so-called barbershop to the United Nations and with the HeForShe campaign. I've used to, in fact, very often, used the opportunity to thank the highest. Foreign minister for that initiative, wanting to do it again and now, knows and has sensed that it has attracted international attention and admiration. I would like to encourage him and other senators, members of the council, who are here to take advantage of whatever opportunity they have to promise the results we have achieved and share the experiences we have. Finally, a respectable president, I reiterate my gratitude for a well-loved report. Secretary of state. Here, in a small overview form, I have assumed the main points that have been presented and have been discussed in the field of foreign committees, and I look forward to continuing to follow up the discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u46	A respectable president. First, I want to use this opportunity to take a complete mind of gratitude as presented here to the highest degree. Foreign Minister for his good work, along with all the fine staff and lawyers who work hard to protect Iceland's interests in foreign fields. I also want to thank you for the fine discussion that has come to many aspects of this large and varied matter of foreign affairs. But as a result of the time limit, I will try to keep my story in line with things that concern our business with other countries. As everybody knows, Iceland is a very small, open economy and standard in this country based on the fact that our business with other countries is free and free. I want this brief talk to you about these matters and about the flashes that we have in store for our major business markets. More than half of Iceland's land production comes from exporting goods and services, but comparative, there are only about 10% of national production in the United States in the form of national trade and one-third of national production in Britain. We have tremendous amounts of pure energy, food, knowledge, and technology, but because of small numbers, we also have to import many things, such as high - tech technology, and all kinds of goods. The export is therefore the basis why we can import something else that we need here. Of course, we should seek free business dealings with other nations, yet we must never be distracted from opening up such trades in any way to impair the national sovereignty. The aim of free business is, of course, to improve the quality of public living, but it is not to serve the interests of international companies. Therefore, the national sovereignty and right to establish international companies laws and regulations within their own jurisdiction must always be uncircumcised. The introduction to a variety of goods or services is beneficial for all, but we still need to respect a certain viewpoint. We are to demand that the products be produced in countries that respect human rights and the same requirement for the product produced here at home and to our own manufacturer. We are to make strict demands on the health and health and well - being of animals in domestic food production, and we are to make the same demands for the food we bring to the country. Do we want to import animal products from countries that use antibiotics or drive living animals thousands of miles to slaughter? Do we want to import food produced by a labour force that has no record and does not have minimal rights? We must not import goods from countries where human rights are not respected or where it is produced under circumstances that would be considered unsurpassed. If we could not expect the same import requirements as domestic product and production, domestic production will gradually be transferred from country to countries that require the least of their production requirements, the slightest demand for animal transport, the least human rights requirements, chemical use and otherwise. We need to keep this in mind always as consumers and in our foreign business. It will not be avoided, therefore, to discuss the EEA partnership and what has been discussed in the discussion of the Constitution problem. I'd like to say, fortunately, the Constitution of Iceland prevents the administration of judicious authority and government from the country. Some people seem to think that this problem and talk about the constitution problem, but I don't agree with it at all. If the Constitution had permitted judicial and state rights to some extent, we would no doubt be in a weaker position to resist the EU efforts to promote greater power. In the past 20 years, the EU has drawn more and more power from its member countries. This has not been able to resist or resist Member States. But this has also been a test of cooperation with the EEA and the Constitutions of Iceland and Norway. Of course, the EU has no right to submit power to the European Union's institutions. Therefore, amazed and disappointed, indeed, the number of times the EU has proposed legislation that is based on drawing power to Brussels. It's a matter of concern about the position of men on this town and disrespect for the European Commission. In spite of all business dealings with a large number of foreign countries, the EU does not have to hand over any authority to the EU. For example, there are Canada and other countries that enjoy good and free trade with the European Union. Business dealings, of course, should not call for loss of sovereignty or democracy; they should only improve the survival of the nations of the business. It is impossible in this speech to discuss the growing problems in the European Union and the economy because much of our foreign business is to European countries. Certainly, the problem would be greater and hardly escape if we had taken the disaster of joining the European Union, but fortunately the application was repeated, since it had crossed theground and the discussions with the European Union had long since taken a long time ago. But in view of these problems in the European Union, there should be good reason for the foreign services to look for ways to improve Iceland's access to other markets, where prospects are better and the risks are less likely. Risk distribution is important in exporting as well as other substances. The European Union's main problems are a problem of the currency union, which is totally unsolved, and is growing, vast imbalance in financial markets in the European Union, the currency bank of the currency union has turned huge cash into the system in the hope of implementing the economy, without success, but largely increasing debt and small economic growth increases the risk of major collapse and repute economis, both here and abroad, the collapse of the European Economic Areas, in actual terms of time. There is uncertainty about the possible exits of Britain from the European Union, but Britain is also an important export market for Iceland, and then refugee problems remain unsolved and extreme movements are reaching European politics. The Schengen Team is threatened. There is uncertainty about its future and whatever human opinion, whether it is desirable or undesirable that Iceland is involved in this cooperation, it is evident that its future is very uncertain. In contrast with Britain and Ireland, who chose to stand outside the country, Iceland is an island. But Iceland has a big interest in making sure that border patrols are smooth, that the tourists who travel here to Iceland are a third of Iceland's exports are done in and out of the country. I have called upon a meeting of foreign committees to inform the State Department that there will be a response plan and want to reiterate my claim here once again. If there's a serious disturbance in the Schengen State Department, Iceland's interests may not be top priority in Brussels. They must prioritise their actions depending on where the problem is most urgent. Therefore, we must have a prepared response plan on how to minimise interference by border control and to ensure safety of our interests. I believe, in view of these circumstances and EU declarations, that the Schengen Group is severely threatened that the Ministry of State is fully reacting and that as Britain and Ireland have decided, the possibility of long-term being outside Schengen has to be considered as far as possible. The problem with the European Economics Convention is that there is a growing number of laws and areas. It has been proposed by the European Union to submit power to the states then in the EU, allowing them to act directly into our environment, which, of course, contradicts the constitution. It is a hall of induction that makes it a subject, that we are not quick enough to introduce all of this growing number of types and laws from Brussels. I'd like to wonder if there's a special World Championship going on about who's the first to introduce anything that comes from Brussels. I think the main thing is that we create good legislation and good laws that serve Icelandic and Icelandic homes and the economy here. I would not agree that the terms of Congress and the affairs of the government are restored to the law of Brussels. I think it should, at least, be equal. The National Legislation Hall is no less a problem. I think that in view of the circumstances and uncertainty that exist in the European Economic Area and the warnings that have included the World Bank reports on the threat to Iceland due to problems in the European Economic Area, we need to make it a priority to increase our export to countries outside the EU. [[The president calls.]] There should be some room for that. Today, there are only about 5% of our exports to the United States and even less that go to Canada. [[The president calls.]] We should consider efforts to further our export to non-EU countries. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I would like to thank you to the minister of foreign affairs and to the personnel of foreign service for their fine work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u47	The president would like to ask members of the Parliament to respect speech lesson, speech marks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u48	V.E.G. President. I'm going to thank the highest. Minister of Foreign Affairs for a fine report which covers most of the factors that involve our foreign policy in Iceland. True, foreign affairs have been more in the limelight of recent losses than often before and there are many things to be done. First, the country has been, as man knows, a conflict over our possible involvement in the European Union. This morning's discussion may have made it true that the subject will definitely come on a program, although the criteria have changed since the discussion took place during the last term. In order to complete the aspects of my case, I would like to say that this trend and the problems that have developed in the European Union in recent years and lost are in a way that the reasonings of those who have wanted to attend must have grown very ill. Nevertheless, the European Union or the European Union is an important market for our products, and we move in from there a great deal. We have many connections that we can say are old and based on solid roots. But we also need to watch our membership in the European Economic Area over 20 years ago, making our business with the areas and countries inside the region a significant increase, in fact, and as a percentage of our foreign trades. So how important it is for us to communicate in the European Economic Area! While the European Economic Area Convention is far from the ideal and the way we should so, there must always be a discussion, i.e. However, if our interests are better off inside the door or not, it is clear to me that other alternatives are not available for us in this regard than the continuing involvement in the European Economic Area. We need to work on our faults, fix what needs to be fixed in these areas, and watch out for our fundamental interests in this regard. But I do not have the discussions that have taken place over the years in which we have seen a better or better arrangement for our relationship than we have in this regard. Then again I make clear that this arrangement is not flawless. A major part of our foreign policy and of the factor that's been getting more attention in recent years, unfortunately, I'm letting me say, is the security and protection factor. I'm sorry, because the ideas are not positive. Changes have occurred, both in Europe and in the vicinity of Europe, allowing for an increase in Western threats. This has led to the changed and militarized Russian foreign policy, made clear in their indentation in the Crimea, their involvement in the affairs of eastern Ukraine, and the military structure of other countries, including the U.S. on the border between our alliances in NATO, like the Baltic States and Poland. It is also to be seen, and it has to be directly with us that in recent years it has again become a major military structure on the part of Russia in the north. As a result, Iceland's situation and participation in the defenses of our countries are becoming more planned again than had been for a long time. I have felt that it was a mistake for the U.S. government to lower the station at Keflavour Airport in the manner of 2006. But I am glad that understanding seems to increase among those who are involved in these machines in the U.S. government system that there is a need for additional equipment here. Of course, no one is talking about in this situation that the defensives will be built up in the same way that they were in years before, but e.g. increasing presence of air groups from the United States and other member states here, I think it is important that Iceland's geographic status and the development of Russia in the northern regions have increased. I think it is inevitable and important that we continue to work on what has been done with our discussion with the U.S. government. Although radical or dramatic changes will not occur in the near future, I don't think that increased presence, for example, is an important part of our defenses and our contribution to the common defenses of the Atlantic Community. The Atlantic Union, in my opinion, has played a more important role today than has been in recent decades. I refer back to the events that have occurred in the eastern part of Europe and south of Europe, as known in the Middle East and in that region. When threats arise that may arise in various ways, direct military operations, indirect action that humans have at times referred to as a mixed - out military force, whether it is computerized, terrorist attacks, support of rebel forces, or something like that, it is very important to be organized and equipped to cope with it. The Atlantic Union has been making decisions that can be said to be a failure to adapt the Union's work to this reality, and Iceland has supported it. I believe that their support for us is continued, and it is emphasized that we are associated with these controversies in that matter. To say, I'd like to give special consideration to a case that's been debated over recent losses, and this is our participation in limited compressions against the Russians by Crime and East Ukraine. I think that the matter must be considered in the context of the importance of Western solidarity and I think that it is inevitable for us as a member of the Atlantic Community, a member of the European Economic Area, to follow our Community in this respect. All of this is a breach in harmony with the forces that want to break down their solidarity. I don't think Iceland is supposed to take any steps that can be interpreted to break our solidarity. The consequences of the Russian import ban are considerable, considerable, and painful in this case, although I feel that at first some of the consequences have been overrated. However, we must not violate the solidarity we have considered to be a cornerstone in our security and defense policies in recent decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It was likely sincere, speaking from the heart and especially interesting phrases on the subject. A senator believed that the United States had made a big mistake by shutting down the base here and disappearing on 2006. It's an interesting party to things, and I'll let me ask you a question. A senator: In this case, does he approach the matter out of his concern for the United States and that they made such mistakes on their part, and in what would that be a mistake? Based on a sledgehammer. As a result, a senator of deep knowledge and analysis of the U.S. government and power interest, and he believes that this is where Americans, for their own sake, have made the wrong decision? Or is this a mistake to the senator in the sense that we have been affected in some way? And how? As for a speaker, since 2006 I've felt very comfortable in the country, and the threats we've been facing have not come from the outside, as we know. It was our home - to - house problem that was to put ourselves on the ground rather than an outside threat. Second of all, there's a celebration. A senator seeing evidence that America is more interested in being or being here. That's what I'm talking about. A senator believes that it is beneficial to reenter the need to promote war preparations and military building? Has a what? A senator does not worry that if the superpowers, nuclear powers, the muscles begin to escalate in ever greater measure, could this be a disastrous road that we would be going down? As for us in the north, I wonder if it is not possible that, in this case, it would be a risk of typhus, which would not be what we requested, that military activities and military activities begin to advance in the north. [[The president calls.]] Do we not prefer to see this part of the world at peace?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u50	V.E.G. President. About the first thing I called the failure of the United States, I think it was a mistake in a variety of ways. I think that it was an underestimate on their part from US interests, from Iceland's interests and from the global interests of the Atlantic Community, to reduce defense in this area. It is true that in the early years following the departure of the militia, the sort we have seen here from 2013 was not greatly shaken. But circumstances have changed, and I think there would have been improvements in the fact that there would be more use here, even if it would be in a different format than we had before 2006. Then I'll come to the second. I don't think there's anything to be considered an extra risk or an extra threat, though, as in the discussion, there's an increase in the number of aircraft that monitor subs around the country. Or that there is an increase in the number of airlines coming here, as we say, several times a year, watching Russian flights in the jurisdiction. There has been an increase, i.e. Not only here but also in many of our neighboring countries. The Russians have been pushing their muscles, and I don't see that we were improving our position by resisting the better monitoring of these materials than has been done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u51	Madam President. We may not agree completely on this. I haven't put myself in the position to try to appreciate what would be wise in terms of America's military and capital interests, but I'm more concerned with what we're all about. I can't see what it's like to be picking up for Iceland as if it's about to start offering again that we're gonna be a little bit of a pawn, and then we're going to play a little bit of a high-level tension between the superpowers. Yes, it is entirely true that for a time Russia was somewhat affected by these matters. They had gas for the boats and the planes again after they had been pretty damaged and could not see them. But I'm not from the fact that it's a little harder to reduce that power again. Admittedly, an animal or ill - treated big power may be a dangerous business partner, but the Russian economic prowess to sustain much activity have fallen ill again. I don't necessarily do much with people blowing out the threat they're in. It's just the good old game that the Russians say, "NTO is moving closer to our eastern border, they're increasing their activity in the Baltic States, we have to answer, we have to start sending more planes into the air. Then cometh NATO, saying, Behold, the Russians are gone up: we must pursue them, we must observe them. That's how this happens. This can increase the pace. I remember asking Stoltenberg for this in foreign affairs at the Northern Council two years ago. He did not deny, without my going to put words in his mouth or to make his opinion my opinion, that men would need to be very careful, although the Russians would need to know that they will not get away with anything here. I see nothing but damage to the way this interaction has been developing into Norwegian and European cooperation and incremental tensions, especially if it moves into a military effort - we are on a very dangerous path. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u52	V.E.G. President. It's just a few things. First, it is not just us who appreciate the threat of Russia that has been for a long time. It is in common with the opinions of our alliances that come into existence within the Atlantic Community and, indeed, neutral states, such as Sweden and Finland. It is worth remembering in this discussion that in recent years the cooperation between Sweden and Finland has increased. Discussions in the two countries that have long been based on neutrality as a major factor in their foreign policy have been greatly concerned about whether or not they will be associated with the Atlantic Alliance. This is because people have seen more activity and more threats caused by Russian governments. The situation is also that several other Russian neighbors have experienced tangible changes in their foreign policy, even to the point that a return to the policy prevalent in the Soviet Union and that the examples from Georgia and Ukraine illustrate this. I don't know, about the extra defenses here, I don't agree with them. A senator's goal is to help us deal with the problem. I think there's a natural reaction to changes that have occurred in our environment, changes that we didn't ask for, but are becoming.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u53	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. He's one of the senators who, in my opinion, is one informer of foreign affairs by the members of the council who are here and who are interesting to hear his opinion on matters. I would have liked to ask him about the signs of the Schengen area and his assessment of the testimony of the European Union itself that this is going down to the point of failure, and in reality the problem is huge. Now we are members of the Schengen area, and through this system, tourists come to the country, which spend 300 billion a year, 1 billion a day. Implicit of this passport system for one day could result in 1 billion damage. However, there has not been a response plan or a plan that I know about, and I have called for, how and what action to take if a babby enters the Schengen System, which is constantly being talked about as a collapse. Does the senator not agree with me that it would be advisable and really worthy to not even plan a specific strategy that would cover how we would prevent a prolonged disturbance of passport control if something that we had not controlled? I think this has become an important matter, defending our great interest that this is going to work out that we have to consider some planning and possibly some kind of long-term solution that might come about. How does the senator feel about this question?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u54	V.E.G. President. I can say I wonder. Frosti In view Sigurjónsson changing circumstances, we need to review all possible scenarios in this regard. I'm of the opinion that the Schengen cooperated much longer for us. But I'm worried about what it's like today, and I'm not alone. Like what? A senator testified that the leaders of various European countries expressed similar anxiety because the pressures on the system are far more intense today than when it was designed and set up. Conditions have changed considerably. We can see this, for example, in the fact that individual Member States have increasingly taken advantage of opportunities from cross-border visas and have set up surveillances on their borders that are not precedents in the short history of Schengen, since it is only more than 15 years old. The Schengen negotiation is based on two support. On the one hand, the border control is based on the fact that there is an external cross-border surveillance and a free journey within the region. There is also an important cooperation in police and judicial matters. I'd say it was still very important for us. If there is a change in the Schengen community or our participation in it, I think it's important to maintain these aspects of the cooperation. However, the pressures and changes that have taken place are that we cannot overlook them and in some way we need to respond. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u55	I want to thank you. A senator for a very interesting answer and his position on this, which I find very reasonable. I agree with his point that if there is no need to maintain cooperation in the courts and law enforcement fields, other forms of international cooperation must be proposed. I think it is the best interests of all nations, for example, to exchange information on crime rings or criminals and their travels. It is obvious that everyone would like to have such cooperation with our local authorities. I think there must be some way of doing this, but in view of this threat, preparatory work must be started now. With regard to the cooperation of the European Economic Area I've become a senator, it's said that we have to intervene sooner, be more active in early stages. I received the answer when I began to point out that I had made a mistake eight years ago that I had been better at a council, and then I mentioned it because you're supposed to intervene early. It is incorrigibly that something I have on those farts now binds someone after eight years, that the person who arrives after eight years and is democratically elected can do nothing because I made a decision that is absolutely contrary to all the factors that exist eight years later. It's quicksand that's hard to get out of, I think. It is not very democratic that a democratic agent cannot influence this cooperation. I think it involves judgment or the end of the partnership that it's completely unchangeable. I see that the British are thinking about walking out of Europe's own business because they feel they can't make any changes. This means up to one point, growing closer together. It's a one-way deal, it's not spoken or listened. [[The president calls.]] It's not good in the relationship. What can we do to change that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u56	V.E.G. President. With the second point as big as any. For several years, a member of the U.S. Senate has been working on the Council and the Generals to increase the participation and introduction of the council to prepare matters in the early stages, so that the meeting is not only the presence of officials but also the presence of the General Assembly. This has led to some weight gain in the process of these matters, but I think it is important to continue developing, as humans have actually done, just since the publication of the European Commission in 2006 or 2007. This will include more democratic involvement in the decision-making process at an earlier level. I think there's something we need to move on. As for Schyngen, I don't think I'm revealing any secret, although I say I know that the State Department's Office and Internal Minister's Office have been working on policy in this field that in some way should answer any concerns. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson has it. According to my information, the Minister of Internal Affairs is expected to report to the council, which will include these material soon after Easter. These issues have been considered, but it is also important to have them discussed at the council so that we can exchange opinions about them and ask the necessary questions about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u57	A respectable president. Since there is almost any chance that foreign affairs will be discussed at the council, it is fine to have here a 114 - page foreign report, what has been going on in recent years, and even further discussion. Instead, the National Assembly of Iceland is busy with the mornings of daily living in various domestic capitals, but it is full of foreign languages. They may be part of the existence of an independent nation. It has amazed me in recent years, since my arrival at a council, how much the representatives of various foreign countries have stressed that the countries they represent do not represent are part of and have access to various international institutions. The highest priority for the institutions, including European countries, is the NATO and the European Union. Various nations that were once members of the Warsaw Alliance, such as the former Yugoslavia and who have become independent, have sought to take part in both of these organizations, viewing it as a almost complete victory in their independent struggle to have entered there. This gives me a lot of thought because it was so in the early years of the republic that Iceland became a member of the United States that NATO and it seems to me that foreign policy in Iceland was almost founded on a membership in NATO. In fact, after 1960, the search for a part of a vacation trade organization led to the conclusion that Iceland became a member of the EFTA Free Trade Association of Europe, following a bitter conflict here at a council that preferred the government, the then Common Common Community voted against and the forward category was passed. Now it is that most members of the Parliament admire EFTA as one of the cornerstones of Icelandic foreign policy, and certainly its involvement is in EFTA and the European Economic Areas part of it and, in effect, the basis for the foreign trade here. It is this very free business that is of great concern to us, but security concerns us as well. I've been thinking about the threats we face in the world today. One may seem a bit remote, but it is that Asia's east is a small country that makes strange North Korea, and has built up rockets that are not entirely sure of how powerful it is, although it is considered to be long-range rockets. It may be, in fact, that if the most long-range rockets of the North Korea were launched, it would be shorter to Iceland's capital, Reykjavík, than the capital of the United States, Washington. Fear is alive. The same is true of European threats. The countries that were formerly part of the Council States, the Baltic States, believe that their safety is the best safe city in NATO. I believe we have much to offer, and we must support the Baltic States for independence, as we have always done. It will not be worn to the highest level. Minister of foreign affairs that he has detracted in this regard. But the defense is certainly part of a northern policy because Russia's construction in the north is what it is because of military issues? What is it about the migration in the North Sea? I don't know. Then there are natural threats, such as the threat of terrorism in Europe. When do they get to Iceland? Terrorism is a living threat in lands closest to us. There have been terrorist attacks in Britain, Denmark, France. There's a constant watch in Germany and Belgium. That's what I wanted to remember. Then I'm going to say that in the foreign affairs, I've always felt that the main focus is the benefit of foreign policy. What's the benefit? And it's calculated. What can the land have out of defense? But I've worked so hard that Iceland has so much to offer. Iceland has to stop seeing participation in international organizations that directly accept and calculate this by direct profit and also look at what Iceland can do to improve life among the nations that we want to cooperate with, even with, and even with other nations, and even with all mankind. Then I'd like to mention that Iceland has something to say in a formal way, and that's where I live at the United Nations University. I rejoice that it is announced in this report that it will be set up here on an international organization of the United Nations to accommodate the four members of the United Nations University now active. Peacekeeping is certainly part of the UN, but there may also be a need to increase the knowledge of earth's heat, fishing, equality, and, above all, land healing. Finally, I'm going to mention in my speech that I believe that Iceland's situation of forced action against Ukraine, the attitude that Iceland has taken, is correct and natural in the context of Iceland. The beginning of these measures is not in the European Union, as some have claimed. The beginning of this operation is with the UN General Assembly, and then we are involved, certainly, through and through the European Economic Areas, while other countries involved in this forced operation are the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan. It is only to ask for the forced operation that the Minsk Convention of Ukraine be held. That's not the end of it. Russia's reaction, I believe, is far more economic than the idea of warfare, it's a punishment on their part. This is mainly an operation on their part because of the economic situation, an oil price has fallen through 50%, and this economic empire, once a time for Russia, must have enough food for itself. It is the closest thing to stopping food. But I would also like to call attention to the fact that there is no restriction on the import of a variety of better products from the European producers suitable for the top of Russia. Finally, I'd like to say that I believe that it is right and normal to promote a foreign service, both security, defense, and business, as well as that Iceland can contribute some of the knowledge available here to improve human life in the world. A respectable president. I will finish my speech with these words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u58	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a report of the highest level. The minister of foreign and international affairs of Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of the detailed and careful report, and at the same time, I would like to thank him for a very clear background. In fact, the part of the discussion that I have been able to observe today has been very good and such as not the need for a large talk on the report, since most of its features have been explained, through the history of the Supreme Court. Minister before today. However, I would like to take advantage of this time to talk in general about the report and the more intimate matters I am about in the matter of Congress. V.E.G. During the past year, a minister went in his history to many of the things that have been in the dough of the world, our main project in the affairs of foreign and international affairs. The report goes on a lot more widely, and it is more important to help me get to everything that is interested. I'm going to discuss in general the key elements from the history of the highest. A minister but then two factors that are closer to me during my matter of Congress. First, it is what concerns our cooperation on the European Union field through the EFTA and the European Parliament's work, where I sit, and secondly a job on the United Nations scene, but I had the option to bring them home and see our New York regular committee. The report suggests that there are goals that I consider progressive for reporting, both for goals and for the future. V.E.G. A minister handled the security issue well and how important it is to citizens that they are all right. In many ways, we live in a changed world, with threats such as terrorism. As mentioned in the report, the events in Paris and Copenhagen are threatening to form democracy and liberty throughout the world, not just where the terrible things occurred. As a result, national securityism is very important to us and to cooperate with international institutions in that area. Surely, it has rarely or never been so important in this regard to establish such national security and protection policies and to support this policy that, of course, cooperation with the Atlantic Community and the United States' defense agreements have been made. Freedom, democracy, and human rights depend on fighting for peace and security. The solution and war in the Middle East and the great flight and flow of refugees from there, in reality, are a great opportunity for us to take on responsibility and take part in solving the problem, not only by accepting people but also by helping those in need that begin in a refugee camp with a very narrow advantage. The Icelandic government has made it wise for a respected president to give 2 billion systematically to this project, both to receive people from these territories and to provide support through the international institutions that work at the scene of the refugee camps themselves. I'm only going to make a trip to the United Nations delegation's site. So it was that it was the 70th anniversary of the United Nations. I reiterate that it is very important, and I saw it better than before, when I had the opportunity to visit the United Nations, to increase the link between the World Council and the important work being carried out on the United Nations. I can say right here that I came to a whole new perspective on that work, as well as my belief in the work that comes without doubt, and is very important in the effort to ensure peace, freedom, democracy, and general human rights. After this trip, it is my concern that the world's goals for sustainable development were adopted. It was September, a month before the United Nations office visited. This is a major milestone, this transformation of the world as it is said, a strategy for sustainable development to 2030. There are no less than 17 primary goals and 169 subtargets that all 193 countries have resolved to work to improve the world's interests while taking special care of the environment. It was quite an experience to meet the people who were involved in the policy and who played the key role there, have the opportunity to meet with them, and go over the direction and work for this approval, and are convinced that our introduction to the negotiations is important. Indeed, the goals are ambitious, and they are broad fields, social, economic, and particularly environmental. This, along with working in an equality and against poverty, may have been said to be among the world's largest topics. V.E.G. The government has followed this up with a plan of action, and it's a good thing. I see time is running really fast. Because I have a seat at the European Parliament's Committee for Congress and the EU, I want to come to a foreign trade and trade and make what has already been done in many debates. Councilmen, which is the importance of our cooperation with the other EFTA nations and involved in both the EFTA and the EEA Convention on the European Union. We are in the nature of an import and export-dependent nation, and therefore this contract is very important to us, not solely the business taking place at the European Union. Of course, it is our largest business area, as the report shows, 73% of export prices have been developed for business in the European Union. As business ventures are developing, two - sided agreements at the field of EFTA are equally important. It's really well over all the foreign trade and access of all the institutions, it's a huge cooperation project by many parties, and what treaties are under in the near future. A respectable president. I would like to thank you very much for your report. This is a very useful document and an important piece of information, and it contains the work being done on this site. At the end, all I want to say is that civil service and how important it is that we as a small nation and not large in the extent of foreign service cooperates with the Norwegian nations. More important, the role of 240 judges, who serve in some 90 countries, and all the vital work they do, is the vast work of service for land and nation, and that without paying for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u59	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place on this report. The discussion has been very talkative and good. Of course, when we discuss litigation issues such as foreign affairs, questions arise or at least speculations. People see things differently that are normal, and that is really good, I think we hear criticisms about certain aspects of foreign policy and how it is handled. It has been observed in some members of the Parliament that the basics are a great deal of solidarity. It's very important, and it's an advantage. The export, i.e. Of course, how we carry out our work within that framework is always subject to governments and, therefore, stewards. I thank you for the good words the Ministry has received about this report and her work. I'm going to tell you that it's very nice to work in such an environment that has an enormously qualified and good staff around him every day. If I go over a few things, people have talked a lot about the importance of business. Of course, I share opinions with members of the Parliament, whether in the field of the EEA partnership, i.e. Between the EFTA countries and the EFTA in general, or with the European Union or with other countries. So here people naturally wondered whether we had access to parishes other than the European market. We certainly do, as the Icelandic company has been diligent in applying itself to such a market. They have also been very diligent in attending services to the foreign service or to its subsidiary, Iceland, when new markets come and searching for old markets. Often, it is not simple when the world is as variable as it is today, but it is good to report that an application in the Ministry's Service has rarely been more than just today in helping with the new market, etc. I'd like to bring here one point about the kind of vacation contracts I'd like to make. It's very important when we make vacation contracts and we show up to play that we have something to offer. It is important for us to look at the bigger picture when we are on a good assignment while trying to improve the interests of the public at home in terms of reductions in customs and handling the pay. It's the value we use in exchange for such agreements about our export. So there are many aspects of all of this. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson's son made NATO some publicity, understandable. Hv. A senator has strong opinions about that alliance and our presence there. I'm not going to go deep into that discussion, but I'm going to say that any violation of human rights or any other offenses that may be practiced is unacceptable. It doesn't matter who they are, if they are put on such things, of course, should take the course to which such matters should take place. Hv. A senator also discussed elections in the United States slightly, referring to one of the candidates in particular that I now share, I don't think, of which it's a good idea to present. As for the talks related to free business agreements and the business we call TiSA in everyday speech, it is clear, and we Icelanders have stressed the importance of being exemplary in opening up to the work they represent. It was of interest that a case was presented at the same time. Senator, I think it was a good time. paritaprevir Óttarr of Proppé, who called the refugee problem, i.e. what the problem was. Of course, the problem is that a fugitive has to flee. There are wars, economic disasters, natural disasters, and so forth. That, of course, is the problem. However, when hundreds of thousands or a million refugees arrive in Europe, there will be a problem. Our approach has often been to do what we can about offering shelters in Iceland and better life for refugees, but how important it is that we continue to strengthen the most important work that takes place in the area of disaster. Several members of the Parliament, including some of them. A senator and chairman of the State Department of State, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, mentioned the vital foundation for our foreign affairs and, especially, our defense and security. That's where I completely agree with what. Senator. It is important that our security and defenses remain secure. We are an armyless, small people who need to rely on friends and allies when it comes to this. Hv. Some members of the Parliament have mentioned the equality issues. In recent years, they have given much of their place in the work of the Ministry. Happily, we went into the area where we have our attention, and we have much to offer. We have focused on getting men to participate in the balanced talk that has been an enjoyable task. But there's a hell of a lot of country, so you have to say it at the moment. Of course, we will continue. I only came into the possibility of taking a business outside Europe, that's a very important project. During the next few weeks, a vacation agreement with the EFTA is likely to be signed. There are discussions with other countries or state law. There is a few movement at the Mercosur Community in South America. We're working on an update on our deal with Canada. A few things are waiting. I'm calling India and Vietnam, but we've been focusing on doing business in both countries. Well, there's no such thing as nothing going on, because there's no problem. A senator certainly does not say such things. I'd like to mention here regarding the EEA contract that it is very important to us today, and it's the best thing we can do today. Of course, we should take advantage of it. It is important for Icelandic companies to have access to unregulated enterprises comparable to those of Europe. That's what this deal is primarily about, that countries in the EEA are sitting at the same table. As a result, we Icelanders must meet certain obligations, however, which are, of course, limited by our constitution, primarily regarding certain responsibilities regarding our business and employment. Our dealings with Russia and commercial pressure have only been established here. I'm not going to go deep in it, but I'm going to say that even though things are not good there. Russia has been our business nation, and we have had good cooperation with them for decades. It's too bad to think that we're going to this place in cooperation with our best friends there. Hopefully, the problems in the area will be solved so that we can communicate with one another. I thank those who have mentioned civil service, like what. Last speaker here, wow. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Thor Thor Þórsson. Its importance is immense, and as I mentioned in my talk, there are some 30,000 projects, announcements, or inquiries that come into the table of foreign service every year. However, it takes time and time and effort to process such things. Of course, some of these are minor, but others are serious. Another is that of people's lives and circumstances that our fine people have accidentally experienced or that have been clumsy, deliberate, or childish, or whatever, but we certainly try to remedy them. Member States or discussions with the European Union were named here by one or two members of the Parliament. For example, the European Union can be talked about indefinitely, what it will always be in the discussion. It has been part of the European discussion since its birth and will continue. We will not be relieved to discuss the European Union, but we are not involved. We're not in any part of the process. There is no application for involvement in the European Union for Iceland, there has been no doubt about it, and the European Union has actually done so. After that, I thank you for the discussion. I thank you for your cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Committee and local Parliaments. I also, of course, thank the members of the Ministry for the work assigned in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-17-90.u60	A respectable president. In the absence of a collaborator, I will report a report on our involvement in the Norwegian cooperation of the Norwegian Ministerial Committee in 2015. Of course, the same is true of the report that was discussed earlier today or just now. It is here, and I know that the members of the council will be approaching and studying both of these reports, as more and less are being discussed. The year has passed when we try some extent to look to the future. Most government ministers are actively involved in the Norwegian government organization by session in the Norwegian Ministers. The aim of this report is in particular to provide insight into the extensive cooperation of the Northern countries in accordance with the regulations of the Helsinki Convention and to provide information on the many projects working together in this field. It's a partnership of great importance and direct benefit to Iceland. During 2015, there were many traditional partnerships. In 2014, Danir began to become the head of Icelanders at the beginning of the year and worked on the prehumanity program that they proposed to the Council of the Northern Council. In addition, the Ministerial Committees served after a few years of agreement. Although there are many factors in the norse cooperation, there is an built - in curve that enables them to respond rapidly and effectively to a variety of changes in Norwegian communities, especially those of political nature. This has affected international government policies and has been taking greater care of them during the past year than have been seen in many recent years. The war stream of refugees to the Northlands had the hope of affecting the Norwegian partnership, for it is a subject that the countries all have to face. The result was that border surveillance between Denmark and Sweden and Denmark and Germany was taken evenly to Norwegian citizens and others, something that has not happened for more than 60 years, and is still beyond the end. For norological cooperation, this is certainly a concern, for which efforts have been made at the National Ministers'scene to eliminate the barriers to the Norwegian agreements, e.g. the joint labour market is achieved in the way they were designed. This new position on the Norwegian border will be the main subject of the Northern Council, which will be held in Oslo in April. The causes of refugees and refugees, their conventions, and their adaptations to Norwegian communities also had a major impact on the discussions in the Norwegian field, and they have already been decided to put them first in various ways. The Ministers of Cooperation at their meeting in early February to start a few years of work that will improve the adaptation of refugees in the Northern countries as well as the Norwegians have already announced that they will put the matter first during the 2017 Presidency year. At that time, the interests of refugees and refugees were specifically addressed at a meeting of the Norwegian Justice Ministers earlier this month, while the views of the countries in the press vary in many ways and desirable to determine whether it is possible to seek common solutions and determine where North countries will succeed in these matters. The Norwegian collaborators will have a special meeting on the affairs of refugees in April the next. The greatest disappointment in Norwegian cooperation this year was undoubtedly the closing of the Office of the Norwegian Ministers in Petersburg and Caliningrad, where Russian government put the offices in a list of foreign ambassadors and thus made free partners in Russia impossible to interact with these offices. The colleagues came to the conclusion that the operation was really self-limited. However, the possibility is maintained to restore the activity to normal if and when the political climate changes to Russia, since neither the Russian government nor the Norwegian Minister have reported an agreement made in 1997 regarding the Norwegian cooperation of the country. A respectable president. I don't think there's any reason to go over the report anymore. It speaks for itself, and I strongly encourage members of the Parliament to study its contents.
