ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u1	A respectable president. Fast flies for a second. It was just about five years ago, or on March 29, 2011, that I and other members of the council were present at that time. The Industrial Committee of the Parliament signed a common opinion due to a law on the Preservation and Management Plan. It's about five years ago. This was done after a long job at the Committee, where the members worked hard to achieve a solidarity, a proportion of government memory. This led to the outcome of the committee. At that time, I was in a smaller portion, and I wrote without comment under the committee opinion, along with other members of the council. Of course, it is more tragic than tears later in that unique period of treatment at the time. The secretary of the environment, in addition to her fellow minister, led to breaking the good reconciliation that the general council had tried to work together for this work. After that solidarity, everything was turned upside down, and we know that story. I suppose no one expected that five years after the approval of these laws, we were in exactly the same situation as then. Nothing has gone wrong, and the discussion has become very prominent. In effect, the conclusions the committee came to, as well as the other points discussed, were not applied to the good minds of the law. Thus, it is safe to agree with them, that clear rules in the spirit of the law are the basis for reconciliation, and this review of the work of project management is very important on the side of the highest level. Environment Minister now. The debate over the construction of electricity production and the distribution system of electricity are killing us. It is seen in many ways, especially in the scattered areas. Seafood and agriculture will not play a role in the structure built up by these sectors in recent decades. They will not play that role if we look 10, 15 years ahead, something new must come along, a respectable president. Travelers will do so in limited territories, but elsewhere there is nothing more obvious than the energy to answer that call. Today, communities are not under the same conditions at all. It is only southwest and northeastern countries around Theist smoke, where it is possible today to put down a wide range of employment, small work that is based on limited energy efficiency. We're not talking about any big business, aluminumes, as are often tried to turn this discussion into. We're talking about a company that's going to need a hundred and fifty megawatts. We've discovered some cuts. Work committees recently found that there are many opportunities in which rural areas have had to drop jobs because of the distribution of electricity and electricity production is beyond our ability to answer that call. Due to conflict, operations for building up of the main transport system have not been possible for seven to eight years. And we all know what the situation is in the energy industry. It is very important that we realize that there will be smaller and varied buyers to the electricity sector for the region, and it is my opinion that the government should have a policy that most of the work related to energy use will be located in the region. As a result of decisions during the last term, we are faced with the fact that ten years from the decision-making process, we will be faced with the decision-making process until something is possible to happen. This is evident in enormous damage to society. We have discussed a number of exciting advantages in the energy - related work of Silicor's factory of the Brundartan, a pollution - free factory employing some 80 megawatts, creating about 450 jobs, an exporting value value of about 100 billion a year. There are reports now that the presidents of this project are going to Norway and Denmark to discuss the location of the factory because there is no electricity agreement in Iceland. There is no need for many to say that much damage to society is being done because it has been shown that everywhere these projects have taken root, they have trusted solidarity, have created varied employment, have varied jobs, and have paid a fine wage with their trusted activity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the discussion and agrees with the importance of talking at the General Assembly about the situation in our electricity production. I also want to know that in the next few days, i.e. Later this week, I will submit a legal report on electrical activity, which contains several and varied information about the energy status, which we may not be able to discuss here but may still be able to use. As advisor said, the demand for electricity has steadily increased here and is not limited to, as the advisor said, to discuss energy for new industrial projects, but to use in public and other enterprises but to increase slightly rapidly. There is the rate of growth of data beings, biofuels such as Alga biofuel, and, above all, the growth of tourism in the country, not to mention the ideas of marine cables to Britain that would call for 700-1,200 megawatts of electricity production. All of this calls for structure in both electricity production and transport, and it is important to think for longer than one year at the same time. In this regard, we have two very important means of managing the route, one of the Landsnet's System of Transporting Systems and the other of the process of developing the transport system. As you look at how the growing demand for energy for the next few years and decades is being developed in a framework of practical use, protection, and waiting for the most reconciliation. So in a frame plan, we should be able to foresee in advance where we can get energy and to what extent we can get it. At least that was the initial objective of a frame plan. Sadly, we have been out of line regarding the peace and the course of expectation that a frame plan would bring to us. I'm not going to go out further in the reasons of that, but I want to emphasize the importance of protecting the framework plan, as it was originally laid down in the first place by her ideologies and rules. Today, we are waiting to see the suggestions of Project 3 step-by-step strategies. I think it's important that this work has a natural course and that it follows the rules of the framework. In October 2015, a meeting of the workaholic committee revealed opinions from various sources that could interpret the work programme on its rules set in May 2015 was out of harmony with the law. Among other things, it has been noted that a project manager, a adviser, cannot legally accept the authority to refuse to accept professional discussions of activation initiatives established by the Power Institute in accordance with its legal role as time available for project management. This is in the sense of a burdensome administrative decision that is out of the legal role of a project administration. I believe that there is a good reason for careful review of the work procedures of the project management and that the basis is that the rules of action reflect the laws on the Framework Programme and what is stated in the explanatory data with them. This review has been called by the General Assembly, and it is urgent that it will be completed as soon as there is no further delay in working at the 3rd-in-the-line programme. This is a key element in all the discussions about electrical supply and demand. A respectable president. Today, bioavailability to electricity or delivery is not equal to national level. Bottle necks are widely in electrical transport systems that do not allow areas to compete on equal terms for the creation of new instruments. We see this, for example, on the West and in the northern part of the East. We can name fishery factories, e.g. in Thors Harbor, who cannot switch from oil to electrical energy because the system cannot otherwise replace them. We can mention inducers such as Investigation of Infinity, which has been in the framework of a series of years, but high level of connecting costs have not yet been considered for further evaluation of the activation initiative. Now looking to the better with the language and thinking that a new link point, the drop point of electrical energy at the Landsnet, will be installed in the Naurus of Isafjörg. This provides economic grounds for going to the Whale surgery and for two smaller activites, subjugation, and eastern healing. This would be an enormously positive step in the use of energy resources and the development of the West. Following the linking of these activation options, there may be a basis for the cyclication of electrical energy on the Westline that would open up a number of new and varied instruments in the region. A respectable president. It's a long, broad case, and I can't erase it in this speech, but I redirect the power report that I will submit to the council later this week and hope that the General will have the opportunity to discuss these matters again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u3	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. We've been fortunate in this country so much that we've been able, on account of a small scale, to use green energy and to produce energy from our resources, our water resources, and our flesh. Of course, these are not unlimited resources. We have come a long way with our resources, especially since we now have a industry that is competing for access to these resources, except in other ways, i.e. Travellerial services require that large areas of land be left intact. At the same time, land induction has been in my opinion very prospectively in search of new options, such as wind energy, better use of existing activations, and so forth. Is it true, and I welcome that perspective? The company has also been maximising and increasing its profits, adding that we are getting the most benefit from the use of the resources. That, of course, is what we all want. A respectable president. I must declare my frustration with regard to the development in the terms of a frame plan. It's a course of action that's being put at risk, but that's the kind of thing we're trying to make up for a longer time in these sectors and to try to ensure that we have some kind of objective evaluation when we decide where to activate and where not, especially with very limited resources. I don't like the danger of such an action. I think we should try to draw a line into the sand now. I want to take the top. A minister of the word, in view of what she said earlier, and I want to challenge her and the environmental minister to bring together a group of members of all councils and to try to present these issues and these debates on the frame and procedure. [[The president calls.]] If we don't have the procedure okay, these matters will never be okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u4	Mr. President. Is there more electricity to produce? Then for what kind of work? I believe that the period of heavy industry has passed and now needs to be looking for demand from smaller industrial companies, fish industry, tourism, data plants and other environmental projects as well as to ensure national electrical security. But the big project is to modernize the electricity transport system in many parts of the country, blocking the development and supply of electricity. It is widely known below all caves, as we Westerns know, and it is in the northeast corner and other locations. Tax control has requested a meeting of electrical delivery security, and there is a big meeting at Issafra for a vision of a future in electricity next week. During the West, the transport system needs to be strengthened and replaced, making a circle like the highest possible. A minister mentioned to increase the delivery safety. It has been considered an option, Investigation, and it will be intriguing to know if that assignment will be realized. The small transport capacity of electricity is a major problem in the region. The country's built - in line has grown to its years with old wooden pole lines that suffer severe storms. It is urgent to speed up its renewal and increase its transport capacity and to provide long-term environmental and economic solutions with increased geological tone. The recycling of the transport system and the increased transport capacity believe I am one of the most important projects ahead. There is plenty of energy in the country and it is urgent to work according to a frame plan. Of course, the big issue is how electricity is new and a system plan is the task that we will use to determine the future development of the country. [[The president calls.]] It is hoped that a line will be prevented from being placed on the central highlands. [[Take the front, hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u5	A respectable president. Climate crisis is a big part of our discussion today. Iceland and I boast of living in a country rich in green energy and green resources. Although most fish stocks are still unsure of their hairy skin, they can still go. Water supply is good and good for electricity production in the near future. How sad it is, then, that despite spending billions of costs of fish factories in the country to melt the catch with oil today, they use oil to the maximum, instead of using their own investments and using electricity - all because the transport system is not strong enough! In 2009, the fishing factories went into a great deal of effort with governments and others who cost their factories several billion dollars. But what has happened since then? True, global oil prices are very low, but this does not change the fact that electrical prices for this party have risen by more than 200% and is the case today that factories are forced to import oil into the project. While land induction boasts at nearly 17 billion profits and the ability to own energy in the system, we import oil. Landnet has increased transport costs to these users by nearly 250 percent while increasing others by 20%. This occurs despite the insecurity of transport, which means that if there is no space in the transport system, they will not receive electricity. Despite being able to close the power store by making a single phone call, land activation has increased electricity to these people by 190 percent, but factories are made to quickly switch them to oil. Other cost groups making up the final electricity prices have increased less, such as distribution costs of 40%. Isn't there something wrong with us when a government-owned company dumps its energy and transport from this market, which, in turn, means that we have to import oil? [[The president calls.]] As we build this country, we ask that there be not only talk of climates but of something done in them. [[The president calls.]] I challenge a minister to get climate targets into the tenant policy of these enterprises. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u6	A respectable president. I have to say, I feel like I'm in some weird show where the director is. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. I don't know exactly, it sounds good to hear that we're talking in agreement about a frame plan and that we act responsibly when we associate with it, but we'll see what happened at the last council. Everything went crazy about that. A senator took in the desired fortresses to which he was going to throw them into the company of activation. V.E.G. President. Ten years before something could happen, he said why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson just a minute ago. Ten years. Travel has become the largest industry in Iceland, creating the most lucrative currency in the world. 80% of the tourists coming here because they want to see the unscrupulous nature, and I just ask: paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son something worse than the currency paid by foreign partners, e.g. ... ina big business? In fact, we're getting very little out of it, and it's all going to be in my mommates abroad. Is this worse? Is it worse if people are in their small companies, tourism companies, doing business all over the country? Finally, I would like to say: Of course, the transport system of electricity needs to be strengthened. We have plenty of energy. Nationalization has said that there are excess emissions of about 151⁄220 billion in the system, but we need to strengthen our system all around the country so that people can use it. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're doing. A senator agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u7	President. There was a time when this discussion would come on. But the big question may be: Does Iceland need electricity? The answer, of course, is no. That's exactly what it is. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who should be the heart of this discussion, the problems associated with the lack of good and regular access to electricity by the members of a certain country. So we should concentrate primarily on trusting in the infrastructure, renewing old systems, before discussing what needs to be changed into how electricity is distributed to companies. First, we should consider how the general public, just out of general security conditions, is able to access energy evenly. I could almost say that my speech could be Rafney. Magnúsdóttir It was all in it that I would have wanted to say. What I might want to say is that the fact is that when we discuss the box, which is obvious that many people want to tear apart, they have had a break. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was the leader of a pack of subversives, and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u8	President. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson went over the stage, and I had in advance perhaps concluded that he would do so out of the way of being the head of a professional cartel. But he is obviously in a hot mood when it comes to a frame plan and interesting when someone is telling the story, his own story. The story of Jón Gunnarsson's son when it comes to a frame plan is simply that he has always had a corner in her side, a corner in the side of the law and a corner in the page of the project, and so gravely that at his last council, he came private with a suggestion to increase the activation options to eight, just because he felt it. Fortunately, it was reassigned. It was turned back on evidence in a grammatical and logical way. It's inexhaustible and intolerable to use bullandoso bitch when it comes to national energy resources. Happily, such efforts were difficult. The senator broke backwards. Hv. A senator speaks of the importance of reviewing the rules of action of a project administration. That's clear on answers from the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister for my inquiry on the change the proposal that the initiative to land activation is complete, that's a national activation requesting a change in the rules of conduct for the company's interests. It is, in my opinion, unannounced that public employment companies and public services are to be used with so much force against task management strategies and guidelines. It is just as undefeated that environmental and industrial ministers agree with that approach. Of course, I hope to have the highest. The secretary of the environment is on my side, as she has previously indicated in keeping up a frame plan and answers at the highest level. Ministers to my inquiries suggest that it is considered to be a matter of opinion whether any changes on the Environment Ministry web are in progress on a framework. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u9	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson for starting this discussion. Having a conversation is important. I must agree with his statement that there has been too much immaterial discussion and debate when these topics are discussed. We should be able to discuss them in a balanced way. What I'm worried about is that we are now in the same position as we were at the beginning of the season because we have a demand for electricity and we have too many people and too many areas that do not have electricity security. In this context, I would like to mention that it is important to ensure that electronic energy security in this country for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, for national and national households. Among other things, we need to ensure electrical security on the West and around the country. We need to consider how we can lead electricity from new activations in Hvalá directly in Isafjörður, thus completing a periphery around the West, bringing them to modern times so that the Westerners can live on the same occasion as others because of their work structure. I also have to describe the concerns I have of the position of the GRC site, which is introduced into electronic energy between Land-remission, Elkem of Grundartan and Northern steel and the state of the facility where plans for Silicor's factory are proposed, the environmentally friendly industry of the GDP providing 400 jobs and a number of secondary jobs. It does not have to be said how much the population of suspected people has done to the rural areas west of Hölfjörður and all the work that has occurred around it. I'd like to go to the top right here at the end. Environment Minister and Supreme Minister. Industrial Minister to sit down with every partner and try to discuss matters in order to ensure national electricity security so that we do not miss out on important opportunities, and all the people live in an electrical security and a three - phase of electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u10	A respectable president. It's a good discussion. I often feel that it is characterized by a lot of anxiety, such as that the options are limited and can't be done anything else to strengthen the electrical transportation systems than to put a line over explosion sand and that either the fish and the superpowers, or the energy, or they have to drive oil machines. I have often wondered why such heavy users, such as the fish industry, around the country, do not try to become self-sustained with electricity, such as building windmills, which can be done in many parts of the world without any significant environmental or visual impact on existing areas. This is one thing to me. Then there's another step toward a frame plan. This may need to be adjusted and explained by the law, but it will not, of course, be done to ensure that a request for it comes from land activation, which is a matter of interest, which is then handled by the Environment Ministry. This must be done during a transpirotian conversation and a conversation at the council if you're serious about doing this. Sadly, this group of languages has been characterized by a tremendous lack of trust and support. I lack confidence that the resources and the information involved in them are limited. The unspoiled resources we own, landscapes, regions, and natural phenomena are constantly being lopped on. I wondered, though, " What does this mean to me? ' What a beautiful region this has been in for a long time! I think it's a good reason to revise it in the light of a travel situation. If, at the same time, it is normal to take a phenomenon such as Norwegian Vegetarian, rephrase it and ask for a reevaluation of the activation option and to reevaluate it from a frame plan, why shouldn't a person take the entire Neonatal Party as he is available and reevaluate it? [[The president calls.]] I'm sure that's a problem. Well, let's talk about this, but it's time to erase the distrust that has been going on. [[The president calls.]] This cannot be done with one - sided work done on the side of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u11	President. There are a lot of changes here, in combination with what can be called a major industry. Perhaps the time for large aluminium companies is nearing its end. No controversy has been overlooked by the Straumsvík plant and the conduct of the international Rio Tinto business with its workers. These companies received contracts for electricity prices that have been very damaging to Icelanders when globalized prices are very low. Perhaps it is time to rethink just how we use our energy. There has now been a large increase in inquiries to build a data plant and even to plant. If we want to be self-sustained, we need to use our energy in such a way that we don't have to spend a currency moving something we can create and use here at home. That's why I feel necessary and agree, and I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson for bringing this up. I want to thank you, too, the highest. A minister for opening more extensive conversations and for consultations about where we will go into the future. That's what's important. We have to be careful to let the basics like everyone in Iceland, and then I mean all the people in Iceland, that electricity doesn't get involved in big-time debates. I don't think it fits.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u12	A respectable president. Some senators couldn't do that. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir passed by saying a big word about signed and those who have made comments to the process and accuse them of tearing down a frame plan. In the past, I well described how much peace was made with the proposal, and I signed it along with everyone else. But it was called a bullying, bullying bitch in me and a professional committee and state institutions, such as Energy Institutes and Legislation, to have an opinion on the issues. It was said that there had been a number of initiatives and that 80% of tourists wanted to look at nature. That's right. But it may seem, a respected president, that more tourists began looking at the fortresses in the country, the geologists, and the water main workers, last year, than they did to the highlands. Of course, the way we are involved in the production of our green energy is remarkable. Most members of the council agreed that we would need modern power transport systems. Of course, there is little to it if the modern transport systems of electrical energy do not promote them if there is no electricity to transport them. It's the same way to sit at home. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir said there was plenty of energy in the country. I was just moments ago reporting that the Silicor factory on Grundartanga, one of the most environmentally-friendly energy-related industry we've ever been given to the country, can't get an electrical agreement. It needs electrical power in the additional contract based on one source of data or about 40 megawatts. It doesn't exist. Hv. A senator does not seem to worry that in her district, it is an opportunity to disappear. But it is all right for her and other senators to enable the Whale River in the edge of the Continental Peace Lands because it is at their home. It's in their house. [[Up front.]] Then it's all right to go to the water mains with lines above the highlands of the West. There is so much twin, a respectable president, in this discussion all that is quite remarkable. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that is why we are not making any progress. We will not continue to give to all the people wherever they live equal opportunities to build a powerful, solid foundation, in their own habitats. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's time, Mr. Honorable President, that this discussion is being handled in a responsible way by reasonable people here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u13	A respectable president. I repeat my thanks for the advising and for the members of the council who have spoken here and may, as it were, agree with the debate. The saying that some things might have been better, but it is also good news to find in this discussion. It was called after a conversation, and there were challenges to a procedure that we must take seriously, but it must also be mutual. It's not enough to say that we have to respect and apply a frame plan - just when it suits me. These procedures are the most clear example of the changes that are being proposed today. I'm not even going to answer the objections that were made here, as it was said that the procedure was being changed to demand someone. A review of the procedure is being done so that it reflects the law in the best possible way. I think we can all agree on that. We've been talking about linework here. We've managed to complete two important cases at the General Assembly that are involved in improving the work programme in this regard. I hope there's going to be a way of making some improvements there. But keeping the rules is not enough. It must also make sure that the misunderstanding will not be unbearable. For example, this is now that because of the work we have established in many other governments, it is not what she needs to do. There are charges around the system, so it is necessary to support the decision-making committee on environmental and resource issues to complete the existing issues. [[The president calls.]] We did this at the time with an electronic ruling committee and finished the tail there. [[The president calls.]] So all of us need to look at ourselves and have the rules clearly so that we agree on them and do not interfere with the system with unnecessary needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u14	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend to the members of the Committee on General and Education, in this large case, on the basis of the full punishment. However, this is a bill, which includes an overall review of existing laws on the ultimate penalty. The objective of the bill is to proceed with the most effective and safe and effective process of punishment as well as to reduce the risk of fragmentation and to promote a successful adaptation of judgment to society. There's quite a few new words on the bill, and we on the committee took the time to review it. Section I of the bill includes goals, definitions and values, which are a new chapter, but it is necessary that laws of this magnitude are clear, and it is, therefore, fine if there is a specific section for each objective, set of values and key definitions. Il. The section of the law is a law on the administration of prison affairs. In the 9th. The bill is a new method of prison study. It suggests that prison institutions will ensure that prison guards receive education and training in prison studies and that the Agency will be free to determine whether a special school or project will be assigned to some special educational and educational agency. In this context, it should be noted that there is now a team of workers working on the full schedule, which will display long-term policy barriers in this category. We expect it to be published specifically on education matters. While the wording of this law is widely understood, there is room for the development of the study requirements and key definitions so that it will be implemented in the general educational or military institutions of a prison agency in particular. We'll make a few adjustments to the bill and now I'll go over the mains. In the 10th. The bill discusses the background opinions of people who work in prisons and work in prisons. This is a new decision, and it's not good, but it's because it's grown abroad, and it's the experience of our colleagues in foreign lands that organized criminal organizations are trying to get their people into these jobs. Therefore, according to the Ministry Department's opinion it is necessary to install a source for background reviews. We are here in an area of privacy, and it is discussed in the 71nd chapter of this magazine. The constitution. That is why we need to be cautious when setting such standards. We are here with significant adjustments in this arrangement, but it is essential that those who work at a prison facility or in the federal prison may be above all doubt when appointed, appointed, or employed because of the nature of the work. Failure to perform these tasks can have serious consequences. Because of the experience of our foreign colleagues, we find it normal to include such laws, but we want to make some adjustments because of the reports made to the Committee. It includes the fact that the person applying or the employee or prison guard will undergo a background check, agreeing to that opinion. At the same time, only five years of review will be made so that there is a limit of time, but it will not be rechecked indefinitely. It is then suggested that the average rule is generally maintained, that background and criminal analysis be done no further than is needed in each case. It is therefore very important to show what is allowed to be seen in these background examinations, i.e. what information is permitted to acquire. We think it's in the letters, i.e. Police records, criminal records to the authorities, international police information systems or other foreign authorities and national information systems. Then we also state that a prison facility is designed to make a comprehensive assessment of whether it is safe to give the relevant work the credit of these data and protest rights. It also shows that, of course, a prison facility needs to back up its decisions. So this is a substantial arrangement for making major changes to Article 10. In 1 1. The bill is a guide for the use of force. We discussed this on the Committee, but it is assumed in the bill that there are special requirements for the use of power under the law and that there is a complete count. The commission made quite a comment that the officers of the Prison Institute are authorized to exercise power, since they have not attended the same study as prison officials who will attend prison schools according to Article 9. The bill. However, there will be a special course for the staff of a prison agency in cooperation with the prison school. Of course, it is proper to remember that there must always be consideration for the moderate rule when using force documents. This will be discussed in the 4th. 1 1. for this in children and the personnel of child - welfare authorities or child - welfare agencies who have power rights when a child takes out an illegal punishment in such homes. We were just reviewing that what was meant was not completely clear with the protective authorities. We here make a adjustment proposal to try to explain it to Article 2. and interpolate in the terms of the bill that the child - welfare authorities are the Ministry of Child Protective Services at each time and in its subsidiary, hoping that they will be sufficient to control what they mean. Then we go to III. the chapter of the law that deals with the absolute inaccessible punishments. It contains various regulations regarding when to arrive for a ruling, how to calculate the duel and so forth. But in the 22nd floor. The bill considers saving in a medical facility, but it is permitted that a prisoner is temporarily saved or is allowed for the entire duration of the sentence in a health care facility or clinic. We suggest a change in the arrangement so that it is clearly clear that prisoners are also permitted to take out punishment among them in a treatment home. That wasn't quite clear on the bill. In par. 24th. it discusses that treatment plans and a good deal of discussion in the Committee will be made on how much work is needed in these programmes. It is clear that in the case of very short reviews, the need for a major schedule may not be the same as in the case of longer reviews. Therefore, we feel that the need to make a plan for prisoners is somehow appreciated by a prison agency. For example, for example, if a prisoner has a 30 - day sentence and is known to have only one - half of the sentence due to parole, there is no reason to place much work on a treatment plan. Twenty-seventh. The bill, we also have a new proposal. It discussed the rules, i.e. a prisoner who receives dues or disability loses the right to a day's pay from a prison agency. We only legalize terms because there was not quite a point what was meant, we didn't quite understand the wording. It is a simple adjustment proposal that will replace pay with a daily amount of money or disability at 3.mg. Twenty-seven. The bill. At the same time, we're on the 30th floor. about children in prisons, i.e. when young children are in prison with their parents We suggest a change in the way the wording is measured at a time and that instead of replacing the child's interests, it is considered to be in the child's best interests, making it clear what is meant and that it is in harmony with other laws. Thirty-two. magazines on electronic surveillance. I have to say, it's one of the things that we discussed in the widest context and in the ideologies of punishment and what it means. First, we suggest that when punishment is judged as a 12 - month - old prison sentence may be punishable under electronic supervision, 30 days can be done. That's the proposal for the bill, but we suggest it be extended for 60 days. Then we discussed whether to change the bill in a way that allows more prisoners to complete the loan under electronic supervision. It was observed in comments to the bill that electronic surveillance is less expensive than saving people in a prison cell and that such resources are better equipped to improve the adaptation of court tolerance after the full punishment is completed. However, we were advised on the Committee that Iceland has been in relation to what is called, by the permission of presidents, the ◯back door electrostatic assays, i.e. first, a prisoner will end his sentence before he has an electronic check. He will meet certain criteria. We discussed quite a bit on the committee whether we should make the change at this point to go directly to electronic surveillance. We concluded that a group would be appointed to consider better how such changes in law would be best introduced. We commend a minister to form such a team, which will then consider the consequences and provide suggestions on how the legislation will be changed. We do this with confidence that the Ministry will take this seriously, making some adjustments that will then be submitted to the council in the fall. We assume that the work force should return no later than October 1, 2016; of course, it would be an example if a bill was submitted in advance. 36th. discusses the end of the sentence. It is important that this should be announced in advance before the end of the sentence for the community service of the applicable community at the end of the sentence. Of course, in every case it is not necessary. That is why we add that it is not done in all cases but that it is already needed. At the same time, we discussed community service and community service in 37,◯41. par. A prison agency decides whether prison punishment will be fully accomplished by community service and the type and type of community service. We discussed this in the committee, and we made extensive comments and ideas about community service. The main component was the right to hide courts rather than the administrative authority to determine who will be allowed to serve sentence in community service because it is the role of the courts to issue punishment. It was noted to the board that the resort has given way, and the return rate of those serving in community service is lower in this country than in any other country in the North. It's very good, so that system has given way. I think all the committees, at least part of it, agree that community service is a good way and that it is a means to be used more. The Committee stated that a minister has entrusted a judicial committee with a check to make changes to the current system so that community service will be one form of punishment. We feel that it is very important to conclude that this is the case, and it was noted in the Committee that it is likely to be completed on a judicial committee in the spring months. However, we would like to direct a minister to the justice board also to consider whether a prison facility and a court of law can decide whether prison punishment will be fully carried out by community service, i.e. That there may be twice the remedy, that both may be allowed. We hope that a judicial committee will consider it, and we are ready to receive a bill of change as soon as possible. We take very seriously the comments we received on these laws, so we want to see further changes in the law in this regard. We also discussed a different bill that has been proposed. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar and others about the change in general penal law that particularly deals with the community services of young offenders. Today this subject will be recommended and discussed concomitantly. We suggest that a judicial committee also consider this bill in their work and look especially at young offenders and review them in the review of how we use community service. I really hope that those views will come to pass, and we are confident that the Ministry will bring them about in the right direction. IV. The chapter of the law is about the rights and responsibilities of prisoners. We covered it quite a bit on the committee. It was observed that violence between prison inmates is quite a factor. But one of the main roles of those holding their arms on the prison case is to protect those in prisons and ensure their safety. It is the evaluation of those who work in the system that it is not too hard to allow prisoners to stay in each other's cell without supervision. That is why we suggest here that the principle that prisoners normally don't have to be inside each other's bands. Although it is permitted to deviate from this, the situation did not allow. Unfortunately, we are in this environment in our prison affairs that this is the situation. Conditions are not always offered. But our proposal is to reform, to establish that principle in order to try to prevent violence from occurring between prisoners. We make small adjustments to those under 18 years of age. In our view, what was meant by 44 C.E. was unclear. The bill about the principle that a child is not usually imprisoned. I think it's good that our adjustment is quite clear: prisoners under the age of 18 are to administer sentence on the behalf of the Child Protector. It is not permitted to save prisoners under 18 years of age in prison unless there are experts'opinion that they are in their best interests, and so forth. We'll try to explain this better. We discussed visiting guests. A similar set of background checks was made on visiting guests. As I discussed earlier about the workers, this is an intervention in the privacy of those who want to return to their homes, and it is therefore vital that these regulations be clear. So we make some adjustments in this regard. It is not necessarily that any violation of the proof of good conduct by those who are going to visit in prison will lead to their not to visit, but to their evaluations. We want to validate that this moderate order is honored by these background examinations and whether such examination is necessary in each case. We deal a lot about equipment in a cell. Technology comes forward, and it is a little difficult to have a list of exactly what is permitted at one time. However, we try to explain the meaning of the word electronic device in our committee party, and this is a vital legal solution to this matter. We also discussed drugs and have specific adjustments because many prisoners need medication and receive a prescription from a doctor to do so. Hence, it was presented with the committee that when deciding whether certain drugs are permitted in a prison cell, the director's license needs to be established. We make adjustments to that subject. There's new information in section V on family leave and it's good. It is a legal act to provide additional permission to a family permit. Here is a cautious step toward that direction. History tells us that all decisions regarding the change in law - making laws have been taken in small steps and made available if successful. We encourage an assessment of how this strategy has come out within not too long, with the intention of expanding these sources further. In cell search, we spent most of our time on the committee. We did not agree fully with the approach shown on the bill and read in it mainly the European prison rules and looked for privacy. The bill said that the right of a prisoner to be present was to be removed. Value range 71. g. The constitution has not been limited or defined as simply a home in the narrowest sense of that word. It is also considered to other areas where a person has the right to shut off and to prevent access. We examined how these matters are conducted in other parts of the North Sea, but there are differences in how this is done. It's not completely clear everywhere. In Norway, for example, there is a law on searching in a cell. A prisoner's presence is not being addressed in the field of law itself, but it states in regulations that a prisoner is not present. While it is not stated whether or not a prisoner should be present, it is noted that if you go through personally, the individual will give him an opportunity to be present or to examine for results. That seems to be the rule there. So we suggest that the arrangement is actually unchanged from current legislation, i.e. that a prisoner should normally be present in a cell search but that it is permitted to depart from that condition in current law at the decision of the warden of the prison. Then the warrant is given if any special circumstances arise and some reason to believe that it is not safe for a prisoner to be present. We covered a substantial amount of charges, but there is a considerable amount of information on how it works. Collecting fines and expenses is the least of the things to say. A public review has dealt with this and has made strong comments on how it works. In Norway it is permitted to enter the individual's salary in order to collect the charges and main emphasis on the other North countries, i.e. at least in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden collect tickets and expenses, which are far better than here. We agree with the concerns that the National Accounting Board has with the way things are going here. If we compare ourselves with Norway, there is a difference in success in collects. It should be a concern, and we must review the procedure and see how we want to conduct it. It was reported in the Committee that the Ministry certainly examined the way the Norwegians are going to permit pay extraction, but it was the Ministry's decision not to go so far as to this time, that there would then be a huge change. The committee agrees that it is not appropriate to do so this time, but we note that when the Ministry is going to work, the long-term program, which was reported to be ongoing and I talked about earlier, they will be examined to see if any other measures can be taken in order to collect fines. These are the main changes proposed by the committee. It's considered that the one that stands here is writing. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Haraldur Einarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I only agree with what lies ahead: When this bill has passed through the council, which hopefully it does, we are confident that the long - term schedule will be as soon as possible. At the same time, we hope that the work that is being done with young offenders and community services will be visible to us so that we can take that matter back up for discussion as well as for the electronic resources so that there will be further adjustments in the legislation sooner than later. V.E.G. President. I thank all members of the Committee very well, as well as the numerous committees that came before the committee, who helped us study the reviews and understand the best way to get to work this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u15	Madam President. This is a very big, important case that we receive into the council. I'm sorry that men have not been more radical and have taken a whole mind under the opinion of the minority that I really like. I would almost want us to postpone this case, and I would do it properly, for example, in the collection of fines and expenses, as well as in the case of a man. The manager came in. There people wonder how they should do this. I'm here with a report of the State Accounting, which is the third in about seven years, where it really makes sense how bad it is for us to collect this expense. I don't know what that's like. Hv. According to one authority, the Ministry examined it, and a closer look at it. For example, when it comes to cohesion, we make a living. In this regard, we often refer to a group of people who are very ill - tempered, single - parent fathers and fellow workers. There's no need for us to get paid. But when there's a tax violation and fines, there's something going around, and it seems like there's no conclusion. A second point to the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures is that usually community service is the full - time punishment for such offenses. I don't think anyone ever did time for taxes, regardless of the amount. I was disappointed with the conclusions of a greater part of this matter. I'm asking why. One authority: What should be considered, and when will this decision come to a conclusion? Actually, we just have the same situation right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-to-consistencies and agree that there's a lot of good in the opinion of a smaller part of the General and Education Committee. However, it does not refer to the way the senator enters the matter of detracting fines and charges from pay, just so that it is perfectly clear. I know the Senator knows that. I can say as my personal opinion that I would have liked to see the bill go further in that direction. But the committee decided to take into account the views the Ministry brought on the committee. The Ministry concluded that these long-term plans and policies were under development and that this work was also involved. If the remuneration is not to be paid, what other means do the Ministry want to go? We thought it was too much of a step this time to make such dramatic changes in our collection without the fact that the ministry's reviews were being made first, because this is a major intervention. We know that those who use these measures, such as the Country Association, strongly object. We saw this, among other things, outside the International Assembly Hall Hall today. Other than that, I understand that the senator is moving the idea of postponing the case and taking other factors into consideration. But the bill, in spite of all its benefits, has much to do with family rights and so on. That's why it's important to take care of it and take it more into account the changes I spoke about when the committee that takes them off and the group we're putting up here to give up in October. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u17	Madam President. It is proper to say that there are, of course, some good things in the bill, just so it's being handled even if I'd wanted to see men go further. But when we're talking about getting paid, let's be honest with the fact that we already use that method today. If we do this with the cohesors, and that's okay. Then I ask: Why is it not okay if people owe taxes and have been directly judged for them? If we feel that remuneration is a violation of human rights or something unjust, let us just examine it from the foundation rather than from the contrast between groups in that subject. There are many things I could discuss here, but I'd like to mention the treatment plans and what is presented in the minority opinion that the steps are actually being taken back. Hv. In his speech, a member of the body suggested that people sometimes go to prison for a very short period of time. I think it's very depressing. I think it's important that there's a treatment plan and there's a real harness in it because each prisoner costs money, I don't know how much it costs, maybe 10 million. K. every year. If we could reduce the frequency of return to prison, that would be very good. In fact, there is some standard, saying that a prisoner who stays in prison for more than six months is entitled to a treatment plan. There's some time limit in there, instead of it being something like that. But it's true here, it's actually a bill based on the fact that you're not going to put them into the party that needed money. I believe that prevention and reform would be long-term in savings. The objective should be to have as much money as possible in this country's prisons. Would it not have been possible to improve the treatment regimen?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u18	V.E.G. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree on a lot of things. I agree with what. A senator on the collection, and it's my personal opinion that we can go further and take this step. Of course, there must be a right way to work, and some more things must be meant to do so and to make changes. I know that not everyone agrees with me, so now I'm only speaking on behalf of me, but not on behalf of the Committee. However, with regard to the treatment regimen, it was observed by those responsible for these activities that such a plan is not being submitted in a very short time period. It is true that it does not appear in the bill or in the paper with the bill to the reference criteria, but we take an example in our opinion, which is also an explanation of what is being spoken, what we believe is meant. We trust in a prison facility to appreciate it at any time. The Agency is entrusted with various decisions here on the bill, and this case is one of them. But surely it would be good to see more funding in this group of litigators, and I don't think there's anyone involved. But money can also be used more effectively by making use of the resources we know, i.e. The electronic monitoring and community service are even more than we do today. That's the future. That's the future I hope for all the people who listen to here see that that that's what a full list of committees, and I'll allow myself to say both more things and smaller things, they're about in their opinion, i.e. to make more effective use of them, as this involves more correction and is a more efficient and efficient way to complete punishment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u19	A respectable president. I hereby represent the memory of the section on the bill to a new layer of full punishment. A letter to the Committee of the Committee that was entrusted with a review of the terms of full penalties shows that a complete review of punishments and the molding of long-term prison policy is being carried out. The bill of the above is, in the opinion of the memory, not on deep policy projects, but on the way it seems to be the way, in the process of a new act of full penalties, based entirely on the attitude that needs to be addressed to the lack of funds suffered by the group. During a special discussion at the General Assembly last fall, it seemed to be a contingency among members of Congress that prison punishment should exist. But little goes to reform targets in the bill, e.g. does not appear there and only three times in the 41 - page report. It is easy to see that a review of this series will be practical while the group is as money - bearing as it really is. The minority makes serious remarks to this lack of ambition. The objective of the prison system being met is uncertain and is not an effort to build trust in reform policy or to make the overall system more efficient and effective. The bill is based on current law, and it is not evident that our neighboring countries, e.g. to Norway and its success in reform and reduction. There is many evidence that reformism can result in great success, both for the entire future of those serving out judgments as well as for the rest of the community. A respectable president. The problem with crime is complex and not only the law and its activities but also the social and health systems. The circumstances of wrongdoers vary, but they differ from those of a difficult social and economic situation. This shows research and reports, among other things, in the Norwegian White Book Punishment of Works. Last January 29th, Less cries crèr socialety, who was introduced by the former Justice Minister of Norway, Storberget Storeberget. It shows that 70% of prisoners are unemployed, 60% suffer from addiction, 50% are ill health, 40% are dyslexia, 40% under poverty, 30% have been disintegrated by child - welfare authorities, while 30% have had parents in prisons and as many are homeless. Thus, in view of the memory of the part, it is clear that a correctional policy related to the full judgment requires both social solutions and health care as well as other complete measures. Active reformism is a powerful tool to reduce the number of crime in society and thus contributes significantly to reducing the number of relapses in prison, as the experience in neighboring countries shows. Courage is needed in this category of policy, since it is designed to arouse strong feelings in the community. With greater humanity, there is much more to be said for people. A few years ago, Norwegians undertook a reexamination of their systems, which has brought world attention to a new approach in the litigation group. At the National House hearings on the full punishment I went back to earlier, it was found that an increased rehabilitation of prisoners reduces the crime rate and return to prison. Furthermore, adjustment of prisoners to the community within the prison wall is required before their execution is completed. The lower part is sorry that the opportunity that the current reevaluates the law of full punishment has not been better and more radically adjusted. A respectable president. The bill brings in greater authority and surveillance clearances to the system at the expense of prisoner privacy and rights rights and privacy. A law on the background of visitors in prisons and looked in cells without the presence of prisoners concerns sensitive rights. The memory need to be considered in the context of the Constitution to be the right to enjoy privacy and relations with other legislation, including neighboring countries. The minority agrees with a greater proportion of the committee that the directive needs to be explained and considered to improve the addition of two new parties to 1 mg. Forty-seven. the bill that places these sources down-to-date. I'd like to let it be mentioned here, though, that I find a reason to warn that the police database is being taken directly, as is done here, and that it cannot stand to accept registration and authority for a special general review. In view of the partial memory, special attention is also given that the Council has recently entrusted the government to validate the OPCAT Protocol, which requires monitoring of institutions that save people of freedom. The Protocol discusses the commitments of Member States, including the granting of unlimited access to information on the number of liberty-like persons at each institution, the number of such institutions and their location, all their information and resources, unlimited access to the institutions itself and opportunities for private interviews with those in freedom. The smaller section feels alone that changes to the full penalties must be made before monitoring this and should be directed to the Minister of the Interior to set up a staff for the purpose of a minister and a report prior to June 1, 2016. However, there are some positive changes in the bill, especially those involved in making room for extramortivation. Here I refer to an increased potential for parole, community service and eco-efficiency. There is also an evacuation of the possibility of leaving prisons and the establishment of so - called family secrets. Although extramarital options and opportunities are also available, which are positive, the smaller part makes serious comments on the arrangements and makes adjustments in the setting. I'll come to that later. The failures of the bill are numerous, as well as the lack of existing policies. I'm just going to review some of the key comments of the memory of the part and some adjustment proposals. My speech may not be enough to get everything done, but I'm trying my best. Chapter I of the bill contains laws on the objective of the law, definition of terms and set of values. The smaller section feels that it is lacking in the concept of reform is not included in the bill's object code and suggests changes to the subject. The minority suggests that the term will be made clear in a way that involves increasing the individual's performance and quality of life with the intention of preventing further wrongdoing and return to prison. A minority of the rights to the definition is intended to reach both prisoners and to be judged. Also, in a few cases, a number of references refer to the most successful penalties and suggests the lesser part to replace the word with the most penalties. It is the opinion of the minority that the term criminality has a very vague meaning, as measured by 45. The bill that calls on visits says that if the situation in prison allows and is considered useful, a prisoner serving in a closed prison may receive visits from family and friends. Also, the smaller portion points to the 62rd paragraph. the bill on learning, training, and working out - of - prison education: (b) How can we be sure that we will be able to do what is right in the case of a prisoner who serves as a penalties for a living outside of prison? ▪ A Fangels Department can grant prisoners who serve as a prison sentence if it is considered useful as part of the penitentiary or to prepare prisoners for the end of penalties. I'd also like to review only the rules of the bill on treatment schedules. A significant comment is made on the return shown in paragraph 24. the bill on the design of the treatment regimens. In the current law, there is a plan for a prisoner where a treatment and workcare programme is obliged to be met. What replaces the bill is a law in Article 24. which are less detailed and far from close to being as thorough as what is in the current law. In par. 24th. The bill is made up of a treatment plan only if it is deemed necessary, in the opinion of the head of the prison center. This change is explained by references to lack of funds. This is changing the self-design policy to match the budget of the prison system. It has also been suggested that treatment regimens are not necessary for all, so that they do not form for those who are very short in prison. What, then, if people have no purpose even for a short period of time? In order for prison punishment to succeed, the prisoner must have a vision of how time is best spent and how he can improve. The lesser part suggests the change in a treatment plan to be put under oath and that a prison facility cooperates with prisoners in making such a plan. The smaller section also suggests the adjustment of the provision that in a trial plan there may include work and education plan, rehabilitation, health protection programme and any plans that may be considered a prisoner for reformation. This proposal hangs with other changes in the memory of the part under consideration discussed in chapter V of the bill. In chapter V of the bill, there are new provisions that greatly improve, especially family and family leave and extracurricular activities. However, these new measures do not have to be adequately associated with the correction of the prisoner. The ideal, in the memory of the part, is to make better use of these provisions for prisoners who have shown good conduct and progress in their own lives as a result. The minority, for example, does not see reason to place special time limits in law on when the prisoners can first be granted a day's leave and family leave. This should be evaluable by the situation and correction of the prisoner and the rewards such as these should be placed in a treatment and saving regimen. There is no basis, then, for prisoners who serve shorter sentences to benefit from this decision, even if the sentence is only a few months. These measures are definitely to be used better, both for those who serve longer and for shorter judgments. The minority suggests, first of all, that the time limit for when this application to study and work can be considered to be removed, without the strong evidence that school and working outside the prison can only be available for long - term prisoners, and then after years of detriment. The minority suggests that these measures are considered in the light of the prisoner's plan and how he thinks it. Then I'd like to go in here only with electronic surveillance, a respectable president. The smaller section welcomes the most advanced access to the entire outside of prison and to the detriment of electronic surveillance. The smaller parts, however, give particular attention to the importance of objective and grammatically validation of these measures. Thus it is unacceptable that a private home can determine whether extramortem conditions are met. Thirty-three. The bill is made of a change in this arrangement, ensuring that those who are not included in an institution for which a prison agency has made a contract, but if they meet the criteria otherwise, they will still be allowed to enter this arrangement. The lesser part is celebrating this change. The minority will also agree with the proposal of the majority of the terms for temporary implementation of an electronic surveillance programme to be reviewed by a review group. A respectable president. Then I'd like to discuss what will be noticed when a prisoner is coming out of prison. 36th. discusses the end of the sentence. Among the factors that affect the return rate in Icelandic prisons is the safety network that will be overdue. After the end of a sentence, many inmates do not have anything to go away, even having no head to lay down. In our neighboring countries, the communities and the free communities have worked together to form such a safety network, and it is very desirable to be involved here in solving this problem. The majority of the Committee suggests that the social services of the community that a prisoner in a home will be alerted in advance to the planned end of a sentence. The smaller section agrees with this change, believing it to improve, but it reiterates the need to do more in the field of rural society in this regard. Then I would also like to discuss the spokesmen of a prisoner, a respectable president. The minority feels that it is important for prisoners to have a trial outside a prison that is personally independent of the claims of the prison authorities. Prisoners have the right to vote for a spokesman who can openly and openly comment on prison matters without fear of any kind of alienation or punishment at the hands of a prison official. Furthermore, the individual must be able to correct false stories and myths about matters involving prisoners and prisons that appear in the media or in public discussion. Very important, prisoners can choose a spokesman who himself has been imprisoned. Thus, there may be no limitation of spokesmen to contacts with a clean record. The smaller section suggests changes in this subject. Then the memory section also suggests that the law guarantees that prisoners are assured good access to their spokesman and that the spokesman, if he himself is a bailiff, will be guaranteed adequate work facilities. Up to 74th. The bill is about discipline laws. The minority does not consider treatment of discipline to be well - thought - out, either in current practice or in the bill itself. In view of the memory of the part, it would be worth looking to neighboring countries, where discipline laws have been carefully simplified and placed in a legal system that is transparent and clear. In this country, discipline laws appear to be random and even inhuman, such as isolation for up to 15 days, losing pay, etc. The lesser part holds the hope that this will be rephrased and will be searched for ways that are more likely to result in success. 98th. The bill can be found under regulations that require the Minister to set up a regulations for the further implementation of these laws. Among these are the sum of the fees for work and study. The minority considers it important to ensure that the right prisoner for minimal progress during a sentence, but the bill does not require food money or other dietary arrangements. The review, a group of prisoners, says that food money has not increased since 2008 and that is not enough for all the basic needs. The less part suggests the change in payment and the sum of pay for work, and study will be in line with the development of prices. The smaller part also suggests that the Minister's Regulation does not communicate with the media, leaving the changes in the memory of the section that a spokesman may as well be out of prison as unnatural that a minister interferes with his treatment by rule. Although the smaller part would have wanted to conduct the review differently from what has been done and because the bill still contains positive changes, the less part adds to the approval of the bill, although with considerable adjustments presented in a special Senate document. There's more to this, a respectable president. He's at VIII. the section of the bill on parole. A solution of experience is a possibility that, in the opinion of the object, it may clearly be useful for good conduct and results in reformation. Code 80, par. The bill, of the conditions of parole, is relatively free in the ropes and the memory part suggests that if a prisoner has maintained the protocol with him, he should better conduct himself, and use specific treatments, and be successful in his correction. This change in 4 mg is strongly supported by the memory part. 80. g. that young criminals can get parole after the end of the third sentence. The smaller section, however, makes a comment about the possibility of forwarding supervision to a private member during a probationary period, making adjustments in the setting. IV. section of the bill contains regulations on the rights and responsibilities of prisoners. Forty-two. is about saving in a cell. The lesser part emphasizes that in the law on the level of punishment, minimal demands made to a prison cell and a prison facility will be required specifically. In particular, the memory points to the review of Amnesty International and suggests rephrased references to those in the bill that were presented on the Ministry's website to be reassigned to the bill and added to 1 mg. 42rd. Then the smaller part adds to ensure that the prisoners will remain alone in a cell. With a new prison, house space should not prevent this requirement from being met. At 44. Save the prisoner under 18 years of age. The minority agrees with the changes made by the greater part to make a decision that leaves no doubt that underage prisoners will not pass sentences in prisons and their survival should be in accordance with the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. Forty-five, forty-seven. par. The bill is about visits. Visits to prisons and general development in family relationships and friendships are of utmost importance during retirement, and the minority stresses that the right of prisoners to communicate with family and friends is not restricted. The drug problem in prisons is not to be solved by limiting these important rights of prisoners. The problem here is not a lot of visitors but a high - quality prison security. There are no more prison guards, but no less family and friends. On this point, it says a fine review of the legal committee of Iceland's legal society, with the permission of a president: 1st. 46. g. it is assumed that a prisoner in a closed prison may receive visits from a family less than once a week if a prison situation permits and this is considered a suitable part of the penalties. It is suggested that a prisoner in a closed prison be visited twice a month by a friend. The Legal Committee feels that the prisoner is being overcrowded. Experience has shown that the relationship of prisoners with family and friends is very important during imprisonment. The Legal Committee believes that friends of prisoners have the same right to visit them as a family. The minority agrees with the legal committee of the legislatures and suggests that friends of prisoners have the same right to visit prisoners as their families. 46th. The bill has the right to limit the number of visits. The minority takes special note of the comments made by emissary Generalis on a comparable set of regulations in the current law. A prisoner's position, a union, points to the Universal Agent's recommendations and believes that his viewpoint has not been given here. By permission of the President: Since physical contact is forbidden, such as through glass or under supervision, the rules must be made regarding who must be visited in prison quarters. Today this is carried out by the assessment of one employee and there are no procedures. This particular employee has been free to shape his method and method, which is unacceptable. It calls to mind a serious comment made by the U.S. Department of Legal Affairs at 47 C.E. The bill that allows, and in fact, the prison authorities are obliged to investigate the background and criminal record of a visitor's visit, including ... withtheexploitation of the police file. In part, the review of the Law Committee says, with the permission of a president: The Management Board points out that this is a way to prevent the privacy of prisoners from visiting them and rights and suggests that this law will be removed or that there will be a reason for any suspicion of such a government ceremony, as it is reserved for the application of forced action. The smaller portion suggests 1st mg. Forty-seven. ... goout. Two. magazines on the search for guests. The minority suggests that the leave of the visiting guests will be conditional for this search, and the decision to accept a visit is to be reasoned. When it comes to computer use and access to the Internet, there is a problem with the right prisoner in the bill. The smaller section agrees with the changes made by the greater part that the head of a prison may allow prisoners in accordance with prison rules to keep electronic devices in their cells and to have permission to use the Internet severely, both in open and closed prisons. But by the way, a respectable president. In the 18th. The bill is suggested that the minister establish rules about open and closed prisons, division, and other imprisoned arrangements. The smaller portion is too easy to let the Minister alone after deciding what the difference between open and closed prisons and arrangements there is, saving prisoners there, and moving prisoners between open and closed prisons. It is an important point in policy development on the ultimate punishment and correction of prisoners and, therefore, the code of rules in these matters needs to be with the Lawgiver. It is my opinion that closed prisons should serve a security purpose and should save prisoners who may be dangerous for society. A large proportion of prisoners are not considered dangerous in the sense that it is important for safety to save them in a security prison and for the better and normal way for them to be harnessed while saving them in an open, human - looking environment. The differences between open and closed prisons are also ideal for impulse systems and the rewards for good behavior and progressive rehabilitation by moving to open resources based on events. The smaller section does not suggest a special change in the arrangement at this time calls for a special investigation and should be a part of the overall conference in the seminary, but the less part of the disillusionment is that the decision in this subject is carried out as a minister. It is worth noting that in the 21st suit. The bill discusses the decision on saving sites, transfers between prisons, etc. The minority feels that the law needs to be more specific about the number of prisoners taken between prisons. Transfer to another prison may lead to a great sense of insecurity in prisoners and in his subjects and naturally set rules for how to choose a saving site and that these also apply to changing the decision. The smaller section suggests a change in the obligation to transfer prisoners between prisons, which is part of the correction made by the prisoner and in accordance with the schedule or the need for the safety of the prisoner himself or other prisoners. In the 17th. The bill is about saving in prison. In view of my share, there is a fundamental difference between the trial status of a bailiff and those who need custody. The Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights state that the person responsible for criminal conduct should be considered innocent until his guilt has been proved. The saving of a guard guard guard guard with returned prisoners is not in line with this principle and suggests that this will be allowed to be taken from the bill. Thirty-seventh. The bill is about community service. The minority agrees with the authorities who feel that the decision for community service should be made by a judge rather than by a prison agency. The minority, however, feels that there is no objection to the fact that the prison authorities also have the authority to use community services in the same way that the bill assumes. On the other hand, the world's situation is that community service is the best decision, or administration, rather than the decision of a judge. The minority rejoices that a judicial committee has the opinion of passing these to courts. The majority also agree with the greater part about pointing it to the justice committee to see how a bill to correct a change in general penal law, no. It's a matter of 19/190, 100, that's running on the present system. It's a great matter of community service from then on. 9th. Smoke. S., Helgi Hjörvar. Il. section of the bill is an arrangement for the administration of prison affairs. In 1 1. The bill has the authority to use force. The minority agrees with the comments made by the Commission on the directive and does not consider it desirable to give officers prison or prison agencies authority. The minority points out that prison guards need a special study not to be attended by other officers incarcerated and the prison agency. The minority points to the review of Iceland's Legal Association in this regard and suggests that this warrant is granted only to inmates. It is stated by the U.S. Marshal, by permission of a president, that if the police are not allowed, they are forbidden to move to the country, produce or obtain handcuffs and metal foot irons or other materials. The same is true of spray weapons, such as gas and tear gas weapons. In view of this, 2 mg is clear. 1 1. The bill cannot stand still, but it claims that force can involve physical exercise or the use of appropriate protective equipment. The lesser part suggests that this is to be taken away to meet those views. Most important, what I am here to, a respectable president, would like to mention the list of publishers. In III. in the bill, you will find a set of regulations for the full inexplicable prison punishment and the rest of the population. In the 15th. The bill is required for notification of a sentence and the calculation of a penal time. It says at 1 mg. that illegal punishment should be completed as soon as possible after the execution of a sentence on a prison facility. The minority is deeply concerned about the length of a witnessing list in national prisons, but judgment tolerance may have to wait even for years to start a sentence. The smaller section considers this unacceptable in view of the rights of justice and considers it necessary to handle this in some form of legislation, either by reducing prison punishments in the penal code where there is no need or by providing an increased chance for an electronic or community service. The minority feels that it is proper to consider whether a roof is needed at a time that may pass before the final judgment begins. - In view of the fact that when you're waiting for jail time, there's a lot in your life that you can't take care of where it's certain that in the future you have to go to jail. I have no more time to discuss this for now, a respectable president. This is, in my opinion, a case which requires more revision on, and, in fact, a full reexamination, being guided as input into policy. I hope and wish that in the future it will be the course we will pursue in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u20	A respectable president. I find my opinion on a lot of interesting things. As noted earlier, there may be various factors in which the entire committee agrees. However, as the head of the greater part explained, these are factors that simply need more policy development and more consultation so that changes can be made at this time. I'd like to direct the question to my leading producer part of how he feels that a long-term review of reforms would be the best way. Which party would need a table, any institutions associated with the State Department, but also other members of the community, e.g. from health care services and how to connect this to education systems, etc.? I'd also like to ask you about treatment plans. I think treatment regimens are extremely important and can agree that it would be reasonable to assume that they would be called a better-than-improvement program. But is it true that there are no cases where there is no need for a treatment plan? Would he be willing to explain more clearly if there were exceptions to treatment regimens?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u21	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks me two questions, first of all, which institutions would be the best way to start policy-making, a full reexamination, guided by correction. I think it would be wise to follow the same procedure as had been treated with the alien law, i.e. that first a group of members and experts try to figure out how best to do so is arranged. However, I think of some members, such as the professional psychologists, former inmates, and as I mentioned in my speech, Storberget Storberget, former justice minister of Norway, a great expert on these matters, I would have wanted to see more of the emphasis he presented in a recent conference for that work. But when the work is as good as it is here, there may be no room for a very complete review of the great General Assembly, we would normally have some groups of work, even in the recruitment process, performed that way. But I suppose that the full will is to do it right. What I have always felt to be the main problem of this class is, in effect, the lack of money. There would be so many things that could be improved by simply more capital. But what I really love most about it is that it doesn't have the reformer type in it. Of course, it's not because the people who prepared it don't want to reform it, it's just because I think it's a lawsuit that seldom gets the focus he needs. I don't think people ever realize they need more money for this. As for the treatment, a respectable president, I think it might well be that in all cases such measures may not be necessary, but I think there should always be such an evaluation, and then it would only indicate that there was no need for further measures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers, and only if we agree that the full will is to shape a course of action that would be clear goals. However, it needs more cross-checking and overcrowding than we do in a global and educational committee can actually do, but it's important to go in that direction. Then I'd like to introduce a subject that I don't think is established, in either the committee opinion of my share or much of it, but perhaps indirectly regarding the community services of young offenders. There is reconciliation or reconciliation. It is a well - known example of this, such as from Norway, that reconciliation and reconciliation are part of the guise of young criminals. I wondered, " How does the senator feel about the correction? ' The Senator has the view that e - mailing should be a court order, but what view he has of reconciliation is a matter of question. Is it a means by which courts can use or be used exclusively outside courts or as part of a reproof?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u23	A respectable president. I hope that I can successfully answer that question. You're absolutely right. A senator comes in to see that in order to get a full reexamination in which the correction is expressed, it takes a lot more work than we've been able to do here this time, though I'm sure of it as it is. A senator who agrees that it was the best way, provided that funding allowed. As for the social services of young men, it is undisputed, as far as I can see it, that community service is very good and very upbuilding, but it is so that since courts cannot judge in that way, they tend to judge men in a probationary prison that many feel escaped by the written process, they do not experience what is punished because it does not have a defensive effect, nor does it have a wholesome effect. However, it is not so much that it requires that the person be locked up or called for a deportation, at least no more than community service, which is, of course, a form of depravity. So I have strong faith in that remedy. In terms of sharing, I simply don't know how much research it's been about how useful it has been. I find that interesting, and I'm sure that the courts can dictate something like that, at least try it. I don't know if there were legal problems around it. Then I'd like to point out that I've asked the Minister of State on Social Affairs, waiting for an answer and looking forward to having it, maybe I can answer some questions. A senator better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u24	Madam President. Prison cases and the full - time judgment of this bill, called the ultimate punishment, are a variety of lawsuits and problems because it touches certain baseline values, social and moral, human rights, administration, and judicial action. Therefore, it is important that legislation on this group be based on long-term policy development and vision, i.e. should be looked high and wide but not narrow. The bill on the topic of full - term punishment is, in fact, not based on deep policy work, as stated in the Committee at the bottom of the section, but much more the need for a limited amount of money or a lack of funds that this category has had to cope with. It is society that has the most important interests to care for, so it is important to be careful when presenting total law, such as the one we are discussing. Now we've got a what? A top-of-the-art Board of Education discussed this matter over a period of time, and it has, in itself, been an excellent job on the Committee. A lot of visitors have been there. There has been a controversial discussion, and people have not run into any party pits. Rather, they have tried to put this matter to the best of their means, both government and government. Therefore, we do not violate the bill because we feel that there are some improvements and changes in the majority of the things we think are likely to look for better. Still, there is a distinction between the majority and the smaller parts in the area. A board of directors and this difference of opinion is based on the basic concept of punishment and correction. We don't think that there's much going to be a problem with the testimonials in the bill. For example, there is no correction. I allowed myself to count, and as indicated by the committee opinion, the word appears three times in a report. The report is 41 pages long, so there is not much emphasis on the score. But there is a much greater emphasis on what is said in the bill's report as a warning effect of punishment. There's a big difference. Therefore, a smaller section of the Committee has proposed a number of adjustments to the bill in which the correction is taken into various regulations, both shown and tested. It is taken into account. ...... "Tr., 21. " and 24 C.E. Two. is defined according to our proposal, and we think that it should be defined as a correction, which means a way to improve the individual's performance and quality of life, with the goal of preventing further fractures and relapses in prison. Of course, there are many other issues and many studies in neighboring countries that show that reformism produces unambiguous social results, especially for society itself and also for the future of those who serve in judicial decisions. Betrayal is a process of adaptation after the end of the sentence. It is a factor in reducing crime rates and reducing the number of relapses, so the social value of this policy is unequivocal. This was proved, or made up, at a hearing recently held in the Norwegian House, which was made a subject of the previous speaker's speech, i.e. On the one hand, the increased rehabilitation of prisoners reduces the crime rate and return to prison, but also the need to initiate adjustment of prisoners to the community in the wall of the prison before their death. This was an opportunity for the bill leaders to take this in, for we believe that an opportunity can be taken into account in an ongoing review of the total legislation on the ultimate punishment. There was a fine opportunity to shape a sharper course in this regard. The bill also provides additional authority and surveillance clearances to the system at the expense of prisoner privacy and rights rights and privacy. We really feel that this bill serves in many ways better than the rest of the system. Among other things, the background opinions of visitors in prisons and in prisons without the prisoner's presence are laid down, and we believe that in this relationship the context of the Constitution needs to be very careful to have the right to enjoy privacy and relations with other legislation, including correspondent in neighboring countries I'd like to, too, in that relationship, know that 3 mg. 23rd par. For example, the bill states that health care professionals are obliged to inform prison authorities about the health or health condition of prisoners that could protect them and the health of others. We recommend that this be removed, but we do not feel that this will go with the legal silence of health care professionals as required in the 17th chapter. the management of health care professionals. It may be noted that according to his review, surgeons have called attention to the HCP's obligation to deal with information that could be concerned with the safety and health of others under the treatment of disease laws. The authorities believe that this law has so far been sufficient in this regard, and as a result, this law is unnecessary. We agree with that. We also offer the basis for a new article that would then be Article 42. in this bill, the fact that prison conditions are humanized and set out requirements for hygiene, size of cell, ventilation, heating, and so forth. We also draw attention to what Iceland's Human Rights Office has called attention to its comments, that it is proper to have laws against discrimination, and it will then be in accordance with Article 13. European prison regulations. We make the adjustment to take such a law into account, i.e. that the law is valid without any discrimination, whether based on gender, race, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, color, religion, life or politics, disability, etc. As mentioned above, one and another are positive in the bill, e.g. where there is a chance for a loan under electronic supervision. True, we feel that changes in conditions related to this possibility need to be made, but it is positive. We also feel positive about improving the possibility of community service, but we agree with various sources of information about the need for community service and the need to be a court order. Today, community service is a reward that prison authorities have toward prisoners who display good conduct and meet expectations. In itself, we do not object that community service is in part the reward of the present - day federal authority, but we feel that it is only such a perfectly perfect exercise, not a court order. At least she would have to be both. In any case, it is unnatural not to be used by a court of law. This pointed to a number of references with sound reasoning, and there is good reason to take serious action. Section V of the bill provides excellent changes in family permits and work and outside the prison. We have no comment to them, but we point out that such measures should be more appropriate in good conduct and accompanied by treatment and saving plans than with fractions. But there are little things, too, as I've come into already, e.g. We feel that apart from lack of policy measures, there might be a degree of reform. To make up the fact that the law is stated in paragraph 24. for a prisoner's treatment plan or this article will be much worse than the current law on a prisoner's treatment plan. On the contrary, we think it would have been necessary to place much more emphasis on this factor and especially on the early stages of abduction and on education opportunities, health protection, rehabilitation, and skill development, which we think are a reason to enter such treatment regimens, and it is particularly thought that this will be done. This is shown in a comment with the bill, so I can quote it correct, by permission of the president: This should also be suggested to reduce the demand for treatment regimens to the prison facility. In accordance with local requirements, a treatment plan is mandatory for each prisoner. However, they have not been able to do so because of priorities, since a prison facility has not been funded for the task. Here, not only do we feel ambitious but we feel that it is a perfect surrender. It is simply given up for a lack of money. But it's not the lawgiver's job, I think, to take into account the practicalities of the Generals. If total law is given and based on national legislation, it must take into account something else. In turn, investors must follow the values and policies set out in the legislation. In this regard it is in our opinion that the self-designment policy should be adjusted to match the financial resources of the prison system. It's a retreat. I'm just going to step back to the ultimate inaccessible punishments, et cetera. That is what we will consider in III. chapter of the bill, it contains regulations for the full inequities of prison regulations. In the 15th. it is shown that unpredictable punishment should be completed as soon as possible. In our memory, we are deeply concerned about the length of a witnessing list in the country's prison, for judgment tolerance may have to wait even for years to start a sentence. It's totally unacceptable in all respects. We feel it is very important to respond in some way to legislation, e.g. Do we feel that we should consider if there is a need for a roof during a period that may pass before the full - time judgment begins? We'd also like to separate a prison plan from a guard guard guard guard. It is fundamental, as indicated in the opinion of the committee, in the Icelandic court that you are considered innocent until his guilt has been proved. We believe that by having a prison prisoner together with security guards, that principle is unrecognizable. For open and closed prisons, we feel too open to be left alone to determine the difference between open and closed prisons. As a result, we feel that we should not hand the Commission over to make decisions or interpretations but also make a decision by the lawgiver himself. It can be noted that now, according to the words, security prisons have a sound sense to serve a security purpose and to save prisoners who are considered hazardous to the community. However, it is also a fact that most of those in prisons or at least a lot of things that I don't say too much, are people who don't consider dangerous society, are not necessarily involved in violent crime or the kind of crime that threatens people from association with prisoners. It would be normal to save such prisoners in an open and humanable environment. We agree that this distinction between an open and closed prison may be desirable as part of a source of encouragement and a reward for good conduct and the progressive rehabilitation of prisoners. At any rate, it should be well thought of. In view of this, we can also say that we rejoice at the full scope of extramarital and electronic loans, but we give particular attention to the importance of being objective and grammatical conditions that will be passed on to our resources. They are, as I told you before, adjustments, and, of course, influence the recurrence rate, because, as we have seen, they included the former conference in the Norwegian House on this matter, so that the more room a prisoner has within the prison wall, the sooner his adaptation begins - and the meaning is that it should begin before the death of a loan - and the more leeway he has for such an adjustment within the prison, the better the adjustment at the end of the prison. This is a viewpoint that I think is most thought - provoking, and we should pay attention. Among the factors that affect the return rate, for example, in Icelandic prisons, is the safety network that will succeed after the loan. There is a number of evidence that the first months after the end of a sentence, a person will decide whether he will get to his feet again in the community. It is a matter of support and follow - up, for most people have to change their previous ways, change their associations, and make significant changes in their lives. In our neighboring countries, local communities and free communities have worked to form a safety network around prisoners that come back into society and that would be most desirable if such were possible. A respectable president. My time is running out. We've made some adjustments that are in a special Senate document, and I encourage people to study them. [[The president calls.]] The key point is that society is highly dependent on the practice of reform, and thus there is the only reasonable way to get to know the best possible outcome. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is social cost, saving money, and it is the moral proper way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A candidate for enlightenment and a good talk on this important matter. The changes in the memory of the part to which the senator is involved are suggested to plan for all inmates and may include a work and education programme, health protection programme, rehabilitation programmes and other programs as needed in each case. This must call for much knowledge of trade in prisons. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes that the increased service of the country's prisons and the rising costs it will inevitably bring back to the community. If so, how?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her inquiry. I'm very interested in this case, and especially in the fact that these so-called treatment regimens, which we want to be referred to as reform plans, are addressed to factors such as increased education skills, health reexamination, and various aspects that will help to correct and adapt the prisoner after publication. I think if it's right, it doesn't have to cost much. But even if it makes a difference, I think the benefits are so many times for society, because as I said in my speech, society is the largest stake in this matter. If they succeed in bettering one person who is in the path of crime, if it is possible to remove it from that way and make it available and suitable as a member of society, they are priceless. Then you have a valid community member who is at best an active member of the community and you cannot wish for anything better as a result of a government intervention in an individual's wrongdoing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for illuminating and extensive coverage. I hear it's like more in smaller parts and more of the General and Education Committee agree that there's some improvement in the bill we have here, even if the will of the less part is going further. I can agree that correction increases individual quality of life and the quality of life in society and saves long - term social resources. Therefore, I would like to ask questions about those who need to provide resources related to a treatment plan or plan, whether the senator would consider that the programs we have in the field of adult education, secondary education, high school, at a work institution, in the management, in the medical system and elsewhere, can take care of these assignments for the prison facility or whether the systems need to be developed. Can any systems that we have carried out, or must be designed? However, I would like to ask about the senator's attitude toward reconciliation and reconciliation. Has she studied how this is being done in neighboring lands, on the other hand, as part of a plan, and as a special option from courts, police, or possibly other professionals?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator proposes this. I believe that within the adult, the ongoing education system, in the recycling process, we have knowledge, abilities, and human beings that can at any time be involved in a custom project, such as modeling specialized correction programs for prisoners. People have been dealing with something like this, I think, in our educational and welfare systems. I take, for example, so I think aloud, that we see on the show Biggest loser, where very special people help individuals overcome the health and physical problems associated with overweight. I couldn't help but think of prison inmates when I was watching the last one. A young man who comes to the jail to stay there for a short while, maybe for less than a month, should get some help, even if it was just a treatment plan, it might really help him, teaching him something, getting him to work out, letting him try his skills, having discussions with psychologists, and so on. It's my personal opinion, I'm not a specialist in this field, but I think you could be of great assistance, e.g. Young criminals who, if caught from the first day, fail to help even if they stop for only a few weeks in prison. On the contrary, their stopping should not result in failure to receive a treatment plan or a schedule, but I would have thought that it was important to start right away. I hope I answered that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u29	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. Then we have the reconciliation and the reconciliation, and I trust it will come back. If I go into the media only then we had a foreign guest in the early United States who was discussing domestic compromises and sexual abuses, even in families that are very sensitive. So I found it very interesting to hear that this was being done successfully, but in order to apply reconciliation in this way, professional people who know well and a team who have knowledge of the timing of both violations and the person who has done so are ready to take the conversation. Whether it is such a sensitive case party or someone else in which there may be minor vandalism or something like that, since I know that reconciliation has been done successfully, it is essential that we understand clearly where the matter should be. Is it by the courts? She's with the police? Is it with professionals in other parts of the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u30	President. I agree with that. I find this very interesting and exciting, this possibility of reconciliation. In order for it to work, I think there are two things I need to do. On the one hand, the reconciliation of those involved and the desire to reach a successful conclusion. On the other hand, the knowledge of those who help in this regard. This is a tricky way that requires great skill from those who conduct such a process. I would first emphasize it. That's exactly why I think it's important that it's an option for people, not an expeditorary strategy. To judge a man to make peace with B-- I am not quite to see that dance come true. On the other hand, I feel that this should be an option, so I can put considerable pressure on people to make peace, to make peace, because, of course, it's always the best thing to do. It's a brainstorm in itself, and if it can be solved in this way, it can also save society, the justice system, the police authorities, that I don't talk about individuals and people around them, much trouble, time, effort, and trouble. So I agree with that. I find this a very exciting option, but I'm not sure who it is. It doesn't matter how you handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u31	President. First, I want to thank you for very up-to-date talks about a bill that in my mind is a preliminary bill because it's not finished at all. I would have thought, it's been previously shown in my case, necessary for this big case to be wrapped up in what I'd like to call reform policy, but I'm afraid here is interpreted as the ultimate penalty and penalty policy. I would have found it convenient to have a Parapolitic Parliamentary Commission, as was done around the alien law that would open and transparently be discussed with all those involved, both those who work and those who are members of the Council and those who are partners who are concerned with these matters, whether it is a union of prisoners or human rights. I sincerely wish to do so - unfortunately, there is no part of the Assembly Hall - and I pray that the less part of the committee will be heard. Many of the changes in the majority of the items are greatly improved, so I will vote for them. I will, however, do it with bad taste in my mouth because it can be done better. The reason I'm not happy with the whole bill is because here we are maintaining an out - of - date criminal policy that I find inappropriate today. After all that has been shown around this case, it is clear that you sense that there is a tendency to go off the criminal path to reform. At least I'm glad that we've reached the point where we're talking about reform and ways to shape a trial plan. For example, I suggest that a greater proportion of the council agree with all the adjustments made from the smaller section where correction is added. It is a very simple and small change, but it matters. What I find important to keep in mind and to have to be sure, what I feel is that it is not enough to have a safety network that somehow should develop, if there is no clear policy about it when people come out of prison. I've met a lot of people in the limo, and they come out of jail suddenly, often without an adjustment period, and they just go right into what they know. These are the people who return to prison, very often young people. I find that if someone has committed such a crime that he calls only for a month in prison, there is another way to correct the breach. That's why I feel like we're just getting started. We are just beginning to discuss a new view of the penal policy of penance, and it is not in these laws at all reflected. I would like to suggest that when this is approved only this will be considered temporary, since we will work out the issues presented in committees and members of the Parliament from many sources. It hasn't been handled properly simply because it's almost impossible, it's so hairy. It has not been handled with very many of the things that have been highly controversial and severely critical in our community when it comes to these language groups. I'd like to agree with all the points presented in the speech given. Councilmen of Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir and encourage the greater part to suggest that all the changes in my section will be accepted, and I'd also like to confirm that these are temporary laws. We're just about to start, and we're supposed to put a transverse committee exactly the way we did with the alien laws in such a good way that no one is crazy. I've finished my case, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u32	A respectable president. I'm going to talk about the law on the full penalty and only go through our committee opinion in the smaller parts, skimming on a big part of it. Of course, I can agree with a number of things that have been traced back here. It is true that this is the last autumn when we discussed punishment or correction. It is a sin, and I agree with the members of the councils here have spoken, that the correction is not to be carried out, but it is characterized by a series of penalties, in fact, by negative probings instead of being in a positive tone. Sadly, the bill gives evidence of today's high - cost system. It's as if they're creating, that I feel, frame it instead of looking to the future and trying to build the system according to that vision and the need that is available, and especially the savings of the so - called system. This may be what it's all about; on the other hand, those who need to do time, and on the other hand, it's the system that should take over. It's only been accepted, but it's not only the laws we deal with here but also the social and health system. Sadly, that is what these people really need, and this bill does not cover the purpose of reducing the need for it. It has been observed that what happened to Norway's former justice minister, Storberget Storberget, who was here in the Norwegian house last January. Surely we want to respond. We can transfer a lot of things into Iceland, so why shouldn't we be able to transfer the policies that are prevalent in many parts of the reform program? Certainly we are a small nation. It's easier to set up employment and stuff when society's bigger, I'm not gonna reduce it. But then we're only creatively approaching things. We need to find a way to reduce our return to prison, especially when it concerns young people. In view of the loss of part, we review the articles that we stress the need to sharpen seriously. I'm gonna let myself go through it a little bit. We define the correction that includes a way to improve the individual's performance and quality of life, with the goal of preventing further wrongdoing and returning to prison. As a matter of fact, it reaches both prisoners and can be judged, i.e. Prison clients may be able to read out on a far greater scale. I think we are, and we hear it completely during the conversation, quite agree on what is suggested here. The question may be, Is the system not ready to go further or is it the minister or what? I felt at the Committee that she was willing to go beyond the rest of her life, so there is somewhere else that this stops. Then, as I said before, it may be about the money given in Iceland's prison case that you're building around it as it is, not as it should be in the future. I'm going to go into a few things. The adult inaccessible punishment, it's in III. section of the bill: This refers to the early completion of illegal punishments as soon as possible after the execution of a sentence in a prison facility. It has been said of a witnessing list. Many people are deeply concerned that they are long and that their bill does not change that. So we are still stuck with prisoners who have to wait a long time for the start of a sentence and who have even come to terms with their feet and started a new life, if we can say so, when it comes to serving. It's not acceptable to carry such things over for years. I myself know such a personal case, since a family head had already begun to work and life was actually in a standard way when the call came. As a result, sensitive individuals may become overwhelmed by the pressures they put on them. We believe that a roof needs to be placed at this time, i.e. Waiting time for full judgment to be set in time. In the 17th. discusses saving in prison when it comes to guard guards. In the smaller sections, we believe that the fundamental difference between the trial status of a bailiff and those who need custody is substantial because you are not guilty until proven guilty. The human rights deal says that we should not apply it in the way suggested in the bill. For the difference between open and closed prisons, of course, he's great. It is interesting to consider seriously using it as a means of managing as much as possible, i.e. rewarding prisoners in that way. We do not suggest a change at this time because we feel that more is needed, in view of the access available to us minor members of the body, to contribute such things. Of course, the system must be ready, and a minister must be ready to succeed. I'm gonna be like everyone else talking about education and treatment plans and stuff. I agree with what has been discussed considerably, i.e. that the treatment schedule should be set for all prisoners or what we want to call a correction plan. If a prisoner is sentenced to 30 days and sits by half, a schedule can be made that could lead to the conclusion that no further action is needed. There is little need for such developments that the system is unable to cope with them. I think it's very important that it serves some purpose when the person goes to prison. If the loss of freedom has no purpose, what do we want to accomplish by putting people in prison? In order for the correction to be successful, i.e. having to do time, has to make an effort so that the person sees something ahead of him. I speak in particular about young people, that may be especially the people who are entering the first offense that society has to take, and the system would have to grab hold of them and try to do their best to keep them from continuing on the same path. I'd also like to introduce to you the discussion that occurred here on the matter of reconciliation. I think it's especially good if you're ready for it. In fact, there is something called reconciliation.is, people who specialize in this, they are not being invented. Here, too, is an excellent essay entitled Better Than a Fat Judgment, a reconciliation to resolve a conflict, and a lawyer by Eva Kristinsdóttir, the Christian daughter. It deals with reconciliation as a way of solving conflict between debates. As noted earlier, she mentions the northern countries. We got a visit to a World School and Education Committee, and then we got the whole thing into domestic violence. This is exactly the same. Of course, the will of both sides is needed to do so. But this could be part of not sending young people to prison, for in my opinion no one in themselves has benefited from being locked up in prison. I say once again: I think we have to make a plan for everyone, away from whether they sit short or long inside. 36th. the end of a sentence is discussed, and this net may have to be fully lit. What affects the return rate in prison is the safety network that receives the end of the sentence. Many prisoners have described what grabs them; they just go right back together, the group that is familiar; one way out of it, and a lot of other paths can't get out of it. We need to get a hold of this. Therefore, it is positive that the majority of the countries and social services should be reported on time when the person is being released from prison. But that alone is not enough. The safety network must be much stiffer. I don't think it's enough that the country society puts their arms around it -- I don't have it in my head, but it doesn't have a specialist on it -- there's more to it. The person needs to be able to enter some form of service. This is important, and in every place it is reasonable. For society, it is cheaper that it is possible to help people and to get them to turn away from the wrong path. Many things here have been attributed to the bill, including what we say. For example, the speakers have stated that community services should be not only the decision of a prison agency but also the decision of a judge. We suggest that both of them be done. We express our joy that the Court's committee has the intention of passing this over to the courts, and again, especially when it comes to young prisoners. I'd like to mention 44. that refer to saving prisoners under 18 years of age. We want changes to be made in order to make absolutely certain that underage prisoners will not pass judgments in prisons and that their saving will be in accordance with the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. 45th and 47. magazines are discussed. That's one of the important things to do when it comes to reforming, there's communication, that people don't get involved because they're sitting in prison, i.e. If it isn't self and others dangerous. I don't really know where this is coming from. I don't know where it came from. We know that this is primarily about the lack of jailers, that there is no need for extra security. The drug problem in prisons is primarily due to the lack of extra security in prisons, not to the fact that visitors from family and friends have so much to do. So the minority agrees with a legal committee that says that the rights of prisoners are being overcrowded. They also say that friends should have the same right to visit prisoners as their family. I'm sure I do. I feel that there is a tremendous reason why such visits can be prevented. This refers to the chair manager of the Generals, conduct, and other members who agree with these issues. Time continues, as always. I'm going to go to the end to discuss prisoners' rights. I am pleased with the change the greater part suggests about computer use and access to the Internet and other such, that this is defined properly. It is important in modern society, perhaps helping to maintain mental health, that such rights are not taken away. You always wonder what the purpose of such a thing should be, because it must always be the basic thought underneath. Then I'd like to discuss the fact that prisoners have a trial outside the penitentiary. I think it is important for prisoners to choose who they choose to take care of their business, but that the public should not interfere with it. It makes no sense to me that it does. I wanted to tell people that, under investigation, there are some final projects on the MA degree, etc. I tell people to read them. Many of these are of great interest and support to what we offer in our smaller parts, including social and health issues. Social status of prisoners is generally considered bad. There is talk of a lack of mental - health care and much else to read. Then, the study is the best correction, a study of a prisoner's education in a penalties, made by Inga Guðrún Kristjánsdóttir, whose guide was the Guðný - Guðbjörnsdóttir Godbjörndottir. She followed eight prisoners for 18 months and took a lot of interviews. Its findings suggest that schooling is of utmost importance regardless of the potential obstacles to study; academic success; spiritual self - image; belief in one's ability; and soberness. This is extremely important, and this is something we must be aware of and ensure all prisoners. A respectable president. At the very end, I like the way others do 83rd. that there can be talk about monitoring for those who are accused of being violated or convicted of probation. The minority makes comments that it is possible to assign supervision to someone other than a prison facility and that there is no reason for doing things this way. We're going to make a change. It's a big case that smells a lot. I encourage people to study it, because as I said before, it's going to turn around first and last thing we want to do is reduce the number of people coming to jail, and that's what we need to change how we do things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u33	A respectable president. Here, we'll discuss a bill to correct the ultimate punishment. This is a new legal code in thirteen chapters, so it is not legal, but it has been written a new law code that is to be handled with much of the full punishment. Chapter I discusses goals and definitions and fields. The management board is provided in section II. In Section III, we will discuss the complete inaccessible prison punishments, etc. IV. chapter 9 speaks of the rights and responsibilities of prisoners, and it is a joy to have them come in and be taken care of. Chapter V is about permission from prison. VI. Chapters are about searching, searching, and studying, and it's fine that these cases have become so decisive in the bill, for they have often been broken for authority. Wll's. chapter 9 discusses discipline and discipline laws. Extensive solutions are provided in section VIII, with terms of probationary punishment, groin, etc. and in chapter X, we deal with the full cost of money, collect costs, and conduct recordings. XI. The chapter discusses collect options, but this section is especially about giving a talk, just for the defined section, because of the indications that have come in. In XII. section deals with lawsuits and charges and XIII. section contains various regulations. A respectable president. This has been a good discussion here at the council today, and much has been said, and only hope, when a new bill is proposed to all the cases I went to thirteen chapters, the subject is filled with plenty. But, as I said earlier, I'm going to do a special about XI. section to be involved in the collection process. Last week, we were assigned to a legal committee of the state's body, and we were assigned to the committee, including the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, U.S.A., U.S.A. The businessman of the Northern West, who goes to the Hall of fines and charges, to discuss these matters. It was very impressive information that came up at that meeting, for that is no less than 8 billion dollars. camped at the end of 2015 in fines and charges. We're doing a very bad job, considering the North countries' collects and legal arrangements in these cases, since here, only 8% of the total fines are in the country, and we collect at a rate of less than 6%. This means that fines accumulate until they are grown old and are finally written off so that a collection center lacks resources so that it can exert its power to obtain the financial resources of the state. In the current government business, there's a big deal about 8 far away. Millions, though I am aware that this money will not be fully collected, even if it would be legalized by the body of the body for the collection. It should also be noted that this is not just a big interest in the money I covered but, rather, a distinction in terms of the fact that the state's funds are charged with over 98% of the tax debt. There are less than 2% of tax debt that is not reached at collections, since there are extensive sources of pay extraction and, as people know, those who owe debts and fines escape in many cases, since both classes are charged well within 10%. This is very sobering, and I believe that there is much inconsistencies because both of these groups are responsible for the debt of individuals to the State. I'd like to go down to the client's review of the Northern West, which goes for the collection centre of fines and charges. It should be noted that during the last week, we discussed it on a budgetary committee whether a budget should not be proposed to a 2nd district. In the event that the release of pay would be granted, even to correct the inconsistencies of the state. I come to explain the proposal afterwards, and I wish that it would be the highest. A top-of-the-art Board is taking the bill into the Committee for the 3rd Environment. and carefully review the evidence found in the district account of the Western West and, if a financial committee comes to convey a new proposal on this basis. I'm here to take the adjustment form for other matters tomorrow on the budget board, but we have a meeting at 8:30 and it's now due. Twelve, we'll see how many transporters there are on the move. The spirit was seen on a budget committee, after the businessman of the Northern West survived a meeting, that there could be no more than a change in the current budget, especially where the amount of outstanding amounts are so high. Let me reiterate, proper President, that we are talking about 8 billion by the end of 2015. Then I'm going to go to the source of the report given to the Council of Northern West. The General Board of Education and Education. It shows that in December 2010, the County Commissioner on behalf of the Congregation of fines and the high costs of the current Justice and Education Department proposed to promote a change in the law on total punishment, general penalties, and criminal treatment laws. A sign that the bill was written by the Ministry's request. Following a report by the State Review Board, the collection of fines and expenditures published in June 2009, which have been referred to here today, a subsequent report published by the Council's Review of 2011. Its findings, which can be said to be a subsequent report by a state accountant, indicated that there were still major defects in the current principle of collectment, which included a parallel inconsistencies and impacting the effectiveness of punishments. It is clear that there is a comment on the project and that there is inconsistencies, so I believe that the lawgiver cannot help but listen to this argument and listen to the director leading this institution. According to the Commission's review, in 2010, when the bills were presented, there were plans to improve and clarify the rules of the collection of fines and charges, as well as the demand for equal remuneration and reformal reforms and abduction committees, to promote the collection system, and to explain the limitations of the collected collections. Then the review says: It is essential that additional sources be provided to the County Hall of the County businessman in the northern part of the West for the collection of these requirements. It also agrees with the National Reconnaissance and Prison Institute to further the government's resources for the collection of fines, so that it is the exception to hear that money fines are finished by a precautionary measure, a great deal has been carried out in this way by higher fines made. If it were right to look at the neighboring countries in this regard and aim for changes in Icelandic law with what would have been given well in other countries, such as remuneration to collect fines and fines. Hear the gist until there are no exceptions. Here we are at the matter, a respected president, using the same instruments to collect fines and charges that become tax requirements. I think that's the most natural thing to do and refer to the government's review of the Northern West. It is also considered that these suggestions included a detailed section of the collection process. The paper proposed a major change in the release of pay as well as the first amount of fines and other items that would not have been paid or agreed within a certain amount of time. Thus an attempt to pay remuneration would be made before coming for funding, forced sale, or penalties in prison. This would actually be a warrant for using the mildest resort, that first the pay would be paid before perhaps more intensive resources, such as financial training, and forced sale, I don't speak of prison, a respectable president. It has been discussed a lot today in this case about the need for prison imprisonment. I agree with that. It is the mildest option the forced force has to take out punishment. Here I am also offering a smallest option that can be offered which is a remuneration to collect fines and fines. I'm the highest. A global and educational committee to take this into account, for as everyone knows, funding and forced labor are very burdensome and have a high cost to the public and are very taxing for the debtor, since no one wants to go through a budget or a forced sale, let alone serve a backup plan in prison. On the other hand, unfortunately, the prisons are so overcrowded and crowded and long waiting lists, so that in the end there is the harshest penalty, serving in prison, perhaps never being used because there is no room in prisons. In fact, the Internal Institutes of Residents cannot actually decommission people in prison to encourage them to pay fines and expenses, since they know that they rarely bring the person into prison. It is similar to the tax debt, but rarely is the absolute resources used. I remember that it happened to the businessman in the northern part of the West that in the past two and a half years, the office got two spots to use as a puzzle to collect fines. Then I'm just going to review the adjustment proposal that I'm preparing to make along with hopefully as many as possible on a budget board. It's as follows, with the permission of a president: A depositor may be asked to ask for pay pay from the guilty person due to fines or charges, to obtain equivalents, or to reimburse reforms or to reimburse the parish committees may not be paid or negotiated within the appropriate period. This source also includes any form of payment that a guilty person may obtain from sources other than his own wage, such as government insurance, stock markets, employment insurance, pension funds, insurance companies, etc. Insidents are permitted to request pay extracts according to 1.mg. ... weexpertsoftheconsistency when making a payment agreement. In general, pay recovery should be determined by the discrimination of provisions and the estimated cost of living according to the general health Ministry consumption criteria; however, it should not be less than 10,000 credits. per month. It is permitted to look to a special depositee on the request of an accused person to make a pay cut. The defendant is obliged to hold onto the pardons of the defendant's fees, to demand payment on fines, charges, and balances, as well as to pay for reimbursement, and parishion committees. In this article, it is permitted to arrange for a pay check to be made on pay or to be observed by a payer who has been paid for it. A respectable president. My suggestion is that this article will be added to the XI. in the bill to become 95. par., after 94nd. ... abouttheexchange of property. So I testify again in the review of the businessman of the Northern West, and there he says, A proposal for reimbursement has been suggested by the IMST to legalize the debt of a partner at a state's fund, but sources to which they have not been legal so far. The aim of the proposal was to leave no doubt as to whether the amount of debt can be owed or not. The suggestion was as follows: Accountable fines, charges, credits and reimbursements are permitted to be committed by the Committee on Reimbursement or Reimbursement, on the grounds of unapproached taxes, children's benefits, and on the legal basis of the law of No. 90/2003, about income tax.◯ This is a proposal suggested by the businessman, who is concerned with paying taxes, but I first emphasize that the proposal I was offering would be 95 percent. ... willbe agreed by its nature. The proposals of a businessman and opinions are well supported in his comments. It points to the way the collection of fines and charges is done elsewhere in the North countries. It speaks of the collection agency sending a list of fines and criminal charges in Norway, Denmark, and Sweden, about their clearance and access to information relating to the collection. See page 22. The report 5 and 6 suggests that the arrangement is in that way in such countries, as suggested in the future 95. If she's approved at the council. Insidents in these lands have such authority. I remind you again and again, and don't tire of saying we're not supposed to invent the bike, we're supposed to pick up the models from the North, where we're going to do more and remind all of our legislation. Such sources exist there. It would be a very unusual, respectable president, if we were not to adopt a comparable system, especially in view of the fact that this proposal was in the bill to legalize a change of the law on the full punishment of the ÁrnadóttirRagna Minister of Justice. So, for some reason, the proposal fell out of the bill when it was. paritaprevir The count of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson became the minister of justice, and then it changed its office to the Minister of the Interior, and it hasn't come back. I have reason to believe that this article is going to be inserted into the bill and that it will be legal because there's too much at stake for a government fund. The success of the collection is far too relaxed because tools are missing for the collector, it must be put in the legislation, since only 8% fines can be collected, and 6% at the time of remuneration is 98% of the available tax pools. We must be equal. The lawgiver has to set a good example and make the parties as high as in this case a debt, so we don't talk about the amount that is out there. As I said at the beginning of my speech, except for an ongoing debt due to fines and costs of more than 8 billion dollars. at the end of 2015. A respectable president. There is much you can do for this amount. That money must be picked up by the state. That's what we do by accepting the adjustment proposal that we hope to see officially at the council tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u34	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your cooperation in the General and Education Committee on this matter and for the work of the Committee all this terms for this category. The committee has been very intervening and has wanted to do better in this category, especially in the case of prisoner reform. We have especially taken into account their education and circumstances for the sake of rejoicing. Granted, it can be said that the bill itself is not perfect, that it could have gone further and more work on many things, but there are still many changes until good and many changes to support reform. Although correction may not be the most common word here, members of this class felt that these changes were important to them so that they could be helped to handle the so - called reform policy. With interest from the Committee, the Commission makes adjustments to the bill and suggests that the Ministry performs a number of other changes that may result in some preparatory work. These include two things: community service and how to expand it, but at the same time, it is important to maintain the community service that is now used, even though the authority of judges to judge directly in community service is increased. The two things must be played together, and the Ministry has assigned a judicial committee to consider what is good. Then there's the other, how to increase the electronic monitoring, and make better use of it. Those who stay on a waiting list for a long time will be able to stay under electronic surveillance and get some solution and reaction from the system much earlier, which I think is very normal. I hope so, and I strongly emphasize that these two changes will come together in the fall so that we can work quickly when we meet again and make the bill legal. I think that even though the bill doesn't go as far as we'd like, we've made the big change that we can make a lot of results. As soon as we get some results, the opportunity for the system to do better, automatically, without changing. When it comes to working down the waiting lists, the system is being run more effectively and has more space to follow the reform policy, I think we will see results rapidly. Thus, not everything is received simply by law change. Although the law has not gone exactly as everyone would like, the prison authorities, the local community social services, the health system, whether in rural areas or in other countries, agree to make it attractive, and they have to coordinate themselves. How we tell the system to operate on the sources available does not always happen by law. I think that's what we've gotten into, that there's a little more talk between the systems to hold on to the prisoners, they need to work with them. They do not need further laws or commands from above. Rather, they should feel that they themselves are applying them and using the tools they have and that they have nothing to wait for to be told what to do. I think it's a very good thing to do here, even though we're not going all the way. But we are trying to do what we can without overthrowing things. Good things happen slowly. I just wanted to stress that I think this step we can take is good, and I think it's important that we get as important as possible first in the fall of the changes called by the committee and are very happy about community service and electronic monitoring. We believe that all those involved in this system should talk and do what they can to strengthen reform policy, and afterwards we will have a better community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u35	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the change to general penal law, No. 19/110, about the community services of young offenders. The nominee is of the General Information and Education Committee and is available on deck. 885. In fact, the committee discussed the matter along with a bill on full punishment, but reports were especially received from the Children's Company, Child Welfare, State Prison Institutes, National Priests, Internal Affairs, National Law Association, and Children's Agent. The bill includes changes in general penal law, with the aim of allowing more support for minor offenders to be given and thus potentially prevent them from being led off the path of further crimes. According to the bill, a new arrangement of 57th par. No. 19/190, and as per the directive, it will be permitted to set as a requirement for prison entitlement that court-defence should be carried out by community service, as if the defendant is 15 in the age of 2011. Does the bill mean that the resources of community service will be one of the special conditions that can be tied to a postponement of the full punishment of prison punishment. Social service is one of the measures that governments have in full justice about illegal prisons or assurrection of capital fines. Community services that have given full resources in this country and the return rate of those serving in community service are lower here than in other states of the north. In the treatment of the bill, the Committee received the information that a minister has assigned a judicial committee to consider whether to make changes in the current system so that community services will become one kind of punishment, in which case and in what circumstances would such conditions be considered. The committee received the report that results were expected in the spring months. In addition, it may be necessary for the Commission to legalize the full amount of punishment, No. 49/2005, changing general penal law. The Committee has a positive view of the bill, directing it to the justice committee to see how the bill's effect relative to the present system is subject to community service prior to June 1, 2016. In addition, it is important that the Committee considered the support and treatments needed to further improve the quality of judgment tolerance between 15 in the age of 52,21 years, in the context of community service. In view of all of this, the Commission proposes that the bill be referred to the government. Under the writings of Chairman Konráðsdóttir Konásdólsdóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Róbert Marshall, Karl Garðarsson, Ólína Þorvarðardóttir, Helgi Gunnarsson, Einarsson, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, and Vilmimurm Árnason. I would like to thank the cooperation of the Committee with the work on the bill and the visitors for their contributions. I just want to come back to the last sentence in my opinion: At the same time, it is important for the Committee to consider the support and treatment needed to improve the quality of judgment tolerance...◯ Since I know the language in Norway, there is a large support system around the juvenile criminal community services, both counseling and certain careers and young criminals, which may include. A search for reconciliation and other options. If this option is to exist, rather than the measures we already have, it is very important to review exactly what is required.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss this matter, a bill to correct a change in public penalties, of the community services of young offenders. At first, I would like to welcome the discussion that we have had today on the matter of a minister's strict punishment. A few weeks ago, we also had a very good conversation at the Assembly Hall in special discussions about the same subject, and members of all parties took part. In short, the red thread in our language was that imprisonment, the ultimate punishment, should be the primary goal of better people, that they go out better than they came in, that they have a better future. This requires increasing emphasis on treatments within prisons and educational opportunities, as has been shown here and elsewhere. This is what we agree on. Incarceration costs money. But dealing with the consequences of crime also calls for money. I think that when all is thought to be, it's a lot more cost. How important it is, then, that we continue this discussion and improve in that area, for there is a real need for improvement! We've been talking about spacelessness. There are long waiting lists to get to prisons to serve. As I said, this is expensive, so the bill we discuss, the growing emphasis on community service, and especially on younger criminals, aged 15 to 0,21 years, is very much needed, in my opinion. It's cheaper than saving people in prisons. I think and the numbers show that the return rate of those serving in community service is lower here in the country than in any other country in the North. So it's a real correction. We've all read people's stories in magazines and newspapers. The stories of people who have lost their way of life and who have even been in prison. What many of these stories have in common is that these are usually stories of young men who have lived very early in life in certain situations, have little backland, or simply made wrong decisions or were wrong men in the wrong place at the wrong time. The stories are true, but what they have in common is that humans have gone young to prison, and there the damage has often become more and more frequent, and their potential for becoming rich and good members of society, which we most want to be. Instead of building these young ones up, we have torn them down. All the tools we have to turn it around, and as I say, community service is a very good tool in my opinion, must be used and taken earlier, when people still have a chance if we can put it that way, although we want to believe that everyone always has a chance and there's always some hope. But the younger people are when we intervene, the better. I rejoice to read this committee program to see that it contains members of all classes. There is clear evidence of harmony and from the discussions that have taken place during the council until now, it is evident that it is acceptable among all members of the council to improve in this regard, and we are relatively at peace with each other. V.E.G. The local minister of Ólöf Nordal has been very decisive in his language and opinions in this field, and there is the harmony we really need to build up. I trust it to the highest. The minister of this matter is well received. As noted, the committee suggests that the case is referred to a government and that it is taken along with a bill to legalize the full punishment discussed earlier. I am quite optimistic and positive about our success. We have models like what? paritaprevir Anna's negative came into her case. We have models and specific processes in other parts of the North where we can apply ourselves, and we should, of course, do so. I'm expecting continued upbuilding discussions and good work done here at councils as well as elsewhere so that we can continue to build up people instead of destroying them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u37	A respectable president. I thank the manager and the whole committee, as well as the last speaker for a positive approach to this matter of Congress and good words toward it. I am its first member, along with members of the Parliament, Kristján L. Möller, Oddný Harðardóttir, Ingadóttir Ingibjörg Inggadótir and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, and I thank them for their cooperation. The case is presented because we need big progress in prison matters in Iceland. The lack of focus on the tribe and the lack of interest in the council has shown him not only in content but also in financial matters. We were so lucky in the United States and the Piranha at dawn to have Storberget Storberget, former Norwegian Justice Minister, who has been with me at the Council of the Northern Council for these matters. I trust that many of the interesting discussions that were conducted in the North American House will be due to further proposals at the council for improvement. The point is that this fault has been a social service in our system that judges have not been able to judge young criminals or other criminals for community service. Since this proposal will be legal, and I hope it will be in the fall, in accordance with the unanimous findings of the Committee to direct this to the Court of Justice and Minister to administer such a case at the fall council, judges could use resources and judge young offenders and even criminals of all ages in favor of community service instead of prison punishment. Of course, in order to do so, we need to come, as noted at the beginning of the day. An authorityman, who supports members of community service, has the desired result. But I also, a respectable president, would like to emphasize this in my concluding remarks on this matter at this council that it would especially be well to consider how community service will then be published on a criminal record. It is important to note how the judgment of community service is given, whether it refers to men as being sentenced to prison punishment, which is later sentenced by community service, or whether they have been sentenced to community service. This can have a profound effect on the afterlife of those who are judged in the way they are listed in a criminal record. I think the milder way of doing this is better, as is often done in prisons and reforms. Then I reiterate my gratitude to the Committee and to the fine solidarity that was achieved there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u38	Mr. President. I'm going to step into this matter, which was so pleasant to be able to handle together with our discussion of the ultimate punishment. The committees would need to do more work together to resolve issues that clearly agree and can be used for employment that are being handled either way. Good ideas from wherever they come are always right. The conclusion in this case is to direct the case to the Ministry for a specific procedure. I agree with what. I hope this change will light up in the HelgiHjörvar as time is given. It may be sooner if things develop that way. Since this is going to be the case with the other bill, I hope that's the result. I think we all agree that we want to keep young people from going to prison, where youths can get involved in association that is worse than if they had not gone to prison. We have heard of too many such examples. It is largely up to the legislation of the legislature authority to ensure that more measures can be made. The Christmas budget discussion showed that some 450 people are being punished. Maybe someone's been working since then. Maybe there's a lot of people standing instead. I don't know. At least it's unacceptable. I went into the waiting period earlier, but we in the smaller part suggest that in the bill for the full punishment of the wait period will be due for a period of time, because it will not be possible for people who have come into their feet to be pulled out of their daily lives so that they can take over an old sentence, even if they are shortened or something like it. In 2014, 112 were in community service. At that time, 146 were in prisons. If you wonder, there is a natural whole system around those sitting in prisons, but I think there are two employees who are involved in community service. Thus, in every way it is less expensive than to be much better. On April 30, about a year ago, a dance study showed that judging young prisoners for community service is six times less expensive than having them in prisons. I think we realize that when we think things over from all the extracurricular activities of being in prison. This was shown in an interview with Brynja Rós Bjarnadóttir in the close - up society. Rós's armor is an expert at the Prison Department and goes to the interview for community service, saying that it has increased each year since its arrival in 1995. She says that this plan is considered for guilty or judicial decisions only in nine months or less. When it comes to young prisoners, we want men to see their fingers through the time hooks and try to aim primarily for their age and condition, and something like that. A great deal of community service has been discussed here, and the extraterrestrial and safety networks are being dealt with. The above shows also featured an interview with Jón Þór Ólason, a lecturer at the University of Iceland, where he says we are far behind the comparative nations in that regard, both when it comes to new provisions for community service and because we have the opportunity to judge people for such services. Today, this is only government custody. Jón Þór says, with permission from the President: When I studied, Iceland was the only country in the world where courts did not have the authority to judge for community service. It's very important to know that this way can be taken directly. I feel like the way we talked before. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir brought along in response, the way of reconciliation, to be a very exciting approach, especially with regard to this party. That thought would have to be accompanied by the thought suggested here, i.e. I don't know what to say, no matter how you look at it. But I would like us to try to follow through on the progress of this case into the other big issue that is being discussed or developed, that there would also be resources taken into it, especially for young people. We can start there. There we can see if it's something that works. Like I said before, it's in the system. The bike is not being invented. There are people who specialize in these jobs. I don't know if it's right for us, but I'm sure we have such people in our social services, in our welfare system. We may, though, need to install something specialized in order to create an experienced bank. I think it's the wisest thing to do. At times, it may be necessary for both to make peace and to continue working with the person. Still, despite going to something like this, he will be punished in the form of a special community service. As we have been discussing young people, it is important that they have access to a safety network. We have spent far too long discussing the mental - health services of young people, children, and young people, all of which remain in hand, the availability of well - being. We hear many times, as we have just heard, that people get lost, and then there's also an enormous amount of young prisoners, especially young men, who are ADHD, with some kind of disorder. So all of this goes hand in hand. Regarding where to begin, there are many things to consider, but we need to keep all of these together when choosing the best way for a young prisoner or a young criminal to be tried, in order to keep him from going back to prison or over his head. I don't often think we're talking about the whole package, we're focusing on something as a solution. But when the group here is trying to get on the outside, we need to look far and wide around our system if we are to achieve real results. As we have previously discussed, it is important that each one of us be saved by an angle, that is a life that matters, and not just for the individual but, in fact, for the whole community. I don't know exactly how this is going to work out, but I think it's our role as a representative of the General and Education Committee to see that these things are going to be like this, that they're gonna get a little pacified when we're out of the way. When the case is approved, which I expect to be done, I think it's a general will that this should go to the government and the Minister, we've let it go a little bit by hand, but it turns out that we'll get this bill that we can have opinions on the future, if we don't like it. I think we need to be very careful not to dwell on one particular way outside of prison but on how we can support these young people in every way and approach those who know best, such as the prisoners and their club, attitude, or those who have gone young in prison. What did that mean for them? How did that change? Or those who have been reformed, I actually don't know if it's been possible, but some have been engaged in community service. We need to reach out to those who know the language. We don't know what to do with it. We talk about it, but we've never been in their place. At least I haven't been, either as a handler or in other ways. We're supposed to look into their experience world, not professionally. This is the professional experience. A respectable president. I'm not gonna talk anymore. I felt that it was important to come into the matter only because I strongly agree with the thought that community service may be the first resort. But I also feel that everything needs to be taken together into one package, a reconciliation, a mental - health service, and something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u39	A respectable president. I present the Committee of All Public and Education Committee for a bill on consumer agreements. The committee discussed the matter and arranged for a representative from the State Department to review the matter, the reasons for it, and how it was worked. The committee also received a representative from the Nettorium. One report came from the Neythal Society, which was unable to appear before the committee. The bill suggests that the Council and Council Directive for consumer rights will be adopted into Icelandic. The directive was adopted in the EEA Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 181/2012 of September 28, 2012. The target of the directive is to agree with the EU Member States' regulations on contracts outside the fixed trade and telematic agreements, as well as sales and services agreements, and on which aspects of the seller are obliged to inform consumers before such contracts become committed by the consumer. According to the law, the bill will be law No. 46/2000, on the hosting and teleporting contracts, are removed, with older directives introduced into Icelandic rights. The main changes to the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and the Council of 2011/83/EC in Icelandic legislation are to require stricter agreements outside fixed centres and telecommunication agreements. However, the right of an consumer is clearly stated in order to decline a contract, allowing the principle to depend on 14 days. So if the bill becomes legal, consumers get increased rights to fail a contract. It should be noted that this is true of jobs and will therefore not include sales that have often been in the discussion with sports companies and other members of the community, unless it can be connected and its scope with professional activity. Commenting on the subject, we noted that there are no points in the bill and ask why individual articles have not been further covered. To answer, this was a guide for Norwegian legislation or a model from Norway, for example on resource. There, for example, is a special law. It's a universal law, and it's going to go further. It was then thought that it would work as if it were done in a Norwegian dish. Other laws were selective, not needed for them because of local circumstances, that they do not reach these issues, and therefore not reason to record them correctly in Icelandic. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. It should also be noted that the committee would like to point out that the Minister of the Interior has announced a general review of the consumer law in order to simplify and make rules more beneficial. Under the heading of the General Information and Education Committee, what? Councilmen Konráðsdóttir Congisdósdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Róbert Marshall, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Ólína Þorvarðardóttir Þordótir, Mól Köfn Helgi Gunnarsson, Haraldur Einarsson Einar and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u40	Mr. President. I recommend to the absence of a leading authority for committee party with a motion change from a welfare committee for a bill to legalize the law of No. 95/2000, of birth and parent'sorof, by subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Anna María Jónsdóttir's daughter from the Central Center of Parents and Children, the Guðný - fearing Björk Eydal and Helga Sól Ólafsdóttir from Children's Research Institute in Children and Family Protection, Elísabet Gísladóttir from Children's Director, and Ragna K. Marinósdóttir, a companion for the support of long - suffering children. Reports came from the Society on parental equality, Iceland's Women's Court of Rights, Iceland's Human Rights Office, Central Center of Parents and Children e.g., the Research Institute in Child - Family Protection, Children's Director and Management, a partner in support of chronic children. The bill suggests that the right of a parent who gives birth to an unborn child after a 22 - week pregnancy to birthworm or to a three - month period will be extended to each parent and three months that one parent can take as a whole or as a parent. According to a bill report, it is intended to match the right of parents who have stillless babies after 22 weeks of pregnancy with the right parents who lose a child shortly after birth, since there is no rational basis for the present distinction. Although several comments presented the opinion that there was a review of other aspects of the law on birth and parentorum, the panels and members of the Committee were generally positive to the bill. In the treatment of the situation, the Commission requested a plan from the birth Oralfs Fund for the expense of changes expected by the bill. The fund's budget says that the 2014 birth year paid parents a total of 9,655,726 bucks. due to 14 stillbirths. If money had been paid, it would have been a total of 29,722,460K by the bill and if it had been fulfilled by parents, their sum would have been a total of 29,722,460k. Given these conditions, the annual cost of the fund would be adjusted 20,066,734 k. That the principle to provide a law on birth and birthworm of each parent allows for birthworm or strength for up to three months and a common right to three months because of birth, primary birth, or the taking of a child into a permanent fetus, as 1 mgr. 8. ........ 18th par. and 1st. Twenty-niner. The law. In 1st. Section 12. and 1st. 20. The law is a special law on maternity and strength as a result of stillbirth and abortion. It shows that parents have a common right to obstetricity or strength for up to three months from that day, an antibirth episode occurs after 22 weeks of gestation, and up to two months after that date, abortion occurs after 18 weeks of pregnancy. The main objective of the General Rules of 1 mg. 8. ........ 18th par. and 1st. Twenty-niner. The law is to provide a child with both parents and to enable both men and women to coordinate family and professional life, as section 2. The law. The aims of Special Rules 2 and 12 pars. it is, however, allowing parents to recover from their breath or to have an abortion, as is the case with an existing bill. In view of these different rules, the Committee does not automatically consider that the same time frame applies in each case. However, the committee agrees that the great difference that can now be seen between parents'right to birthworm or strength based on whether a child dies before or after birth is not suitable. The committee also found that experience showed that the current right to birthworm or power after anti - death birth did not allow parents enough time to recover. In view of this fact, the committee feels that if a parent has a right to birthworm or power to make room for stillbirths, he or she has the right to a three - month or three - month or - strength following the stillbirths, she suggests that the changes in the bill are in harmony. Because of this change in the law on birth and parentalorof, there is an increase in parental rights to birthworm or strength depending on whether a child dies before or after birth, while there is an increase in the difference between pre- and 22 weeks of pregnancy. Although much of the rightness of the time is also not at all appropriate, it is dedicated to the law to separate abortion from stillbirths. They account for the legal adjustment of the law of maternity, No. 51/1997. A paper with a bill to the law stated that they were consistent with the definition used for State Hospitals, which was again based on the definitions of abortion and stillbirth. In 1st. Section 16. and 1st. Twenty-one. the law on birth and parent'sorof says that parents have a common right to prolong their birth certificate by three months or three more for each more months for each child than one born alive. The terms "born " and" born " were added by law No. 90/2004, the alteration of the birth and parentorof law, and the law No. 113/1990 on insurance fees, and law No. 74/2008, about a change in the law on birth and parentorof. The requirement for a child to be born alive was criticized for the commission. It was noted that it was difficult at the same time to raise one child and to bury and grieve another. Thus, a license to birthalorfs or a concentration of multiple births would be of great value, even though one or one of the children was born still. In view of these observations, the Commission suggests a change in the bill, which aims to allow 1. Section 16. and 1st. Twenty-one. The law also cleans up the food you eat. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st The words "three - month - old " that one parent can take as a whole or that can be shared by parents in paragraphs 1 and 2. ... goout. 2. After 1st. A new article, as follows: At 1st. Section 16. and 1st. Twenty-one. The law adds: or born still after 22 weeks of pregnancy. Hv. Senators Þorvarðardóttir Kjerúlf the Þölvardddótttir, and Konráðsdóttir, the daughter of Konál, were absent from the case. The members of the committee are Sigríður Ingadóttir, chairman of the Homology Committee, Ragnheðddótttir, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir. paritaprevir The tribe of forward, Guðlaugur Þórðarson long. paritaprevir The Independence Party, Páll Valur Björnsson, what? paritaprevir It's a bright future, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, huh? paritaprevir The party's advance, and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, huh? paritaprevir Left green. Finally, I would like to say that it was a pleasure to work on this matter on the committee. It was a matter of monotonousness, and it was normal for everyone to change. I started this case at the time because I was brought up with the inconsistencies and unreasonableness of the law. I was kind and obliged to do so, so I am very happy that we are discussing the matter today in the year 2 of our Common Era. and hopefully we'll get along with it. I can only see that the case will be accepted because there was a complete harmony between the committee and that. It's a joy. What a joy it is that we can work wholeheartedly on things that are designed to improve our community! I wish we'd do more. Life is not always the same, but in this matter, we were the things that are truly satisfying. I have this only to declare once again the joys of the Committee, and especially the senior Ragnheiður Ragnahran Ríkharðsdóttir. paritaprevir The Independence Party. I say she worked this case very hard and with style.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to grab the ball from what? paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson and thank you for the wonderful cooperation we had on the committee on this subject. We had just finished discussing other issues of full punishment, and that was the same. The committees are giving away members of the committee's opinion in agreement with members of the Committee. In view of the discussion that many members of the community agree, and when it comes to such reasonable matters as this, we all want to, and for that, we are here, trying to improve and make the system a little more human and more reasonable because, of course, there are many gaps and there will always be. It's our job to develop our system and improve it. I'm not going to do anything in detail. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson has been very careful in reviewing the committee's opinion and explaining what this is all about, i.e. balances the right parents who lose a child shortly after birth and those who lose their baby after 22 weeks of pregnancy. As the senator mentioned, reviews were very positive, but they also made it clear that there are other aspects of the law on birth and parent's course. I agree with that. This is one of the things we have to fix, but there are other things we have to fix, and we're aware of it and we're going to do it. I would like to draw special attention to the multiple births paragraph because there was a point that most of us had thought completely about. We had a lot of discussions about this on the Committee, and I'm going to read these statements in the committee opinion, with the permission of a president: ▪ The decree that a baby is born alive was criticized for the commission. It was noted that it was difficult at the same time to raise one child and to bury and grieve another. Thus, the right to birthalorfs or the strength of multiple births would be of great value, even though one or one of the children was born still. So the committee suggests a change in the bill so that 1. Section 16. and 1st. Twenty-one. The law also includes the use of food. We covered the matter very carefully on the committee, and I believe we've done our best and careful coverage. I hope, and I believe that this case is being treated in a positive way by members of the Parliament's Hall and taken care of and accepted as soon as possible. I'd like to reiterate my gratitude to what it's about. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son for working on this case and following in style. It is hoped that this will bring good things to many in the future when we have changed those laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u42	Mr. President. I'm going to thank you. I agree with the fact that this case is very important. We've been discussing the issues of this issue, involved in a system that can be handled more effectively. Me and what. A senator who was about to finish his talk meets with one of the things involved in ART and unreasonableness in the system there. I wonder when you're thinking about losing this kind of thing; you've been building hopes and expectations for a while. The whole family has come into certain positions, not just the little family, but the big family, people waiting. And then it happens. It may not be until someone who has experienced such a situation shows that you realize where the system is broken. That's why it's very good to respond, and I trust that the bill will be approved. Now I don't know what it's about to cost the money. I don't think that's true. I haven't read it yet. Yeah, it's coming, that's how it is. In fact, the stock of birth, which has been cut down - we need to build it up even more. The sum of money would certainly be considerable, but I don't think there's any merit, if you can put it that way, the circumstances in this case. The 2013 seminar was held regarding these matters. True, it was a professional who had not experienced such a shock. It is also a tremendous strain for the professional side - sided people who lose their child at birth. There is much to think about in this matter. On October 15, the date of the loss of pregnancy has been adopted, and it has been remembered by candles. I would like to quote the words of a former welfare minister, the Guðbjartur - fearing heitinn son of Hannesson, who addressed in a large ceremony in the Hallg Monster Church during that day. In fact, he wrote a fistula in the News newspaper, where he spoke of the lack of words to describe such losses, parents who lost children. He said: ▪ We have words that describe children without parents, partners without mates, but no word about being a parent who has lost a child. This reflects a deeper sense of emptiness and loneliness that society cannot control in words. We talk about widows or widowers, but there's no word about this loss. In fact, when it comes to these matters, there's a lot of things that have improved. In the process and in the system much has been worked for. In 2002, Little Angels were formed, a community for people who have experienced such grief. Of course, there are Dreamers and others who work as supportive groups for people who experience this experience. It's all at the same well. You can get all kinds of information about the formal process, but nothing about what happens, the physical response or the grieving process. Nowhere is it written, because in the years before, such things were not talked anymore. So I think a great deal of water slipped to the sea, and a lot of good things happened, including those of the members mentioned here. Happily, there are always ready to reveal things, to tell the others about difficult times in their lives. It makes things move and things start to move. I think that may be what we have to try to reach and support, but not just this financial frame. I had not realized this, and that is, of course, because it's not in a human experience. And then there's the multiple births. Losing one of the two children in birth means less financial support, but the shock is still there. People are getting ready for multiple births, and they don't turn out to be. It's shock, grief, and all the things people go through. So I'm very happy that the committee will suggest this change here. I'm most concerned with the government's failure to deal with this, but I hope so. I see that the vice president of the budget is signing this, and I hope he is aware that this means an expense we have to show up because, of course, it is the tendency to escape when things cost something. But if only you think about it that way, it's an enormous level of justice and reasonableness. The way things are going is so unfair as they are today. So I don't believe that, although many things are unfair in life and life and in many ways, the government will support the case when it comes to a final vote. I'm very happy that this is done and the reviews here. A comment was made from the Central Center of Parents and Children, and it speaks of equality as well as the distinction made, with the permission of the president: This is the case in 4 mg. Section 8. The law that a parent receives the right to birthworm for up to nine months if the other parent dies during pregnancy and the baby is born alive. This is a parent's own right to nine months of birth holiday under these particular circumstances, i.e. that the second parent dies during pregnancy, and the baby is born alive. According to the words, when a parent dies after the birth of a child, he does not measure up to the situation. I'll get it, then, so we're not dealing with this in the bill. So this means that if I understand this comment correctly, the right of the parent who lives will not be long enough for the time the other parent had received. Now I don't know what the committee discussed or if this is not part of this. Of course, this has something to do with it. The parents'birth vacation rights are being referred to in the bill. I don't know the reason why the committee decided not to make this comment, but I find it interesting at least, and it's also one of the things you don't worry about because it's not in the testing world. I may find the following answers from the individuals involved. This caught my attention when I began reading the reviews on this subject. I think this is a very unfair thing to do. If you stand up alone, i.e. One parent instead of two - we are evacuating the rights of those who lose their child rather than the right child who is born alive but who loses one parent. Thus, it does not allow the remaining parent to stay at home as long as it would have been possible for his parents to share the orsel with him. This is worth considering and looking at, but I'm gonna make this work. I find the bill worth everything, and I hope it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u43	V.E.G. President. With no intention of extending the discussion, I'd like to be here at 2nd. to express delight in this bill for a song. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson is the first carrier to be treated so well at the time. well - being committees and that all members of the committee, except those who could not have been involved, place their name under the committee's opinion. On the other hand, I think it is here that an enormous and necessary justice is being provided for prospective parents who experience it or who get involved in having a still child after a relatively long time of pregnancy. For them, it's a big interest issue and clearly a great improvement. But then I also think it's a social thing, it can also be that way, because here we are, in effect, developing the birth and parental law, thus reaching out for the whole process of birth and parentorlof. So do I. So I think the matter needs to be examined both by the personal plan, so to speak, and also by the social plan. Of course it plays together. This may be related to the speculations raised at the end of a question. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and the questions she raised about the death of another prospective parent. This may be the next step we need to take. Of course, we're a community, we're society changes, we're debates, and I think this can be exactly what we're supposed to think about, and how we can take it up to the next level. Of course, at the same time, we need to work at strengthening a general birth - and - parent spirit by both raising our payments and extending our delivery time. It is then linked again to the matters in which we in the left movement have worked to have a birthport until high school. I want to thank you again. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son for taking the lead in giving this matter and thanking you. the welfare committee again for good repair. Surely, all of us must be exemplary in this very financial situation, so we need not doubt about the cost. I think it is, indeed, possible to say that for parents, prospective parents, and, of course, all of us who may have the situation of having a stillborn child are important, and that this is my hope that the Allied will accept the case so that the legal rights of these people will be better and that we will be better able to live with the people who have to deal with these difficult experiences.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-03-01-83.u44	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion anymore, but I am moved to come up and answer the question. The members of both members of the council who came in on a very important matter. The commission says, with permission of the president: While some comments describe the view that there was a review of other aspects of the law on birth and parentorof, the Commission's comments and visitors were generally positive to the bill. That is exactly what we discussed. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier and more. That there were many points in the maternity law that had to be changed and that while the law as a whole was quite good, we would have to change its aspects to form them as well. A senator mentioned and many others. And as long as any. paritaprevir Steinunn's Þóra's Árnadóttir came in through the prolongation and the nursery program. This is a big, big matter that needs to be discussed as a whole. A department agreed that it would be done on the behalf of the Committee even in the months ahead and hopefully on the next loss. I want to say what. Councilmen from the day it's in the dough. Among other things, it was discussed in the Committee that we found the lures that would certainly be present, as mentioned earlier. I can take an example related to me. My daughter had a baby. She and her husband moved from the United States two and a half months before the baby was born, but because the father was not brought home three months before the baby was born, the father is not born. She gets six months and then goes home without any purchase because she does not get a day's care. There are many such problems that we need to deal with when it comes to maternity and birth strength. And we are to do so in exactly that way, and we did it on the welfare committee now, with solidarity and cooperation. It was a great deal of agreement, and it was decided not to make any further changes but to focus on the stillbirths now and then, hopefully, working together to improve everyone. Like what? A senator mentioned earlier is this social issue. This is not just the parents'case but the community of all, the presence of society. What caused me to get started on this matter was that people I associated with and know experienced this grief that affected not only them but all the community. In the past, such things were silenced, and I was even asked by an older woman why I was changing this, the mother wasn't taking care of any child. The emotional factor often wants to be forgotten. In the past, it was silenced, and nothing talked about, and people just said they were going to work, because then they'd forget all about it. But this is much more than that. V.E.G. President. Once again, I'd like to say that I'm glad that we're this far along and that it's been handled by a solidarity. People wonder about the cost. He's coming out here. There were 14 stillbirths last year. They are very different. They may be nine to ten, so it has been in the past 20 years if I remember correctly, so rock. But it's paid for by insurance. The birth stock fund is funded by the insurance fee. Parents are paying for it, so they have this right. In any case, I am very pleased with this. I thank you for the discussion, and I hope so much. President, the case will be agreed as soon as possible.
