ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u1	Three letters have been sent from the State Department where the request is made on demand every basis to provide written answers to the application form. 1005, for safety on the road system, from Vilhjálmur Árnason, a petition on the deck. 1010, about the status of the Internet in Icelandic telecommunications, from Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, and on the inquiries. 1050 on the management of Iceland's mail and post-mail services, from Willum Þór Þórsson. A letter has also been received from the Department of Economics where request is made in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 1060, on currency entitles, from Helgi Hjörvar.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u2	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u3	A respectable president. On another day of this week, we begin our assembly service in the strange position of not knowing what the urgent issues are as the current government, nor when it will fulfill the promise that the nation will enter the election in the autumn of the coming. Maybe it's good to reiterate to the highest level. The minister of finance asks whether he can help us understand more about when we can expect to do so, and the nation, to know what the government's business is, and when they feel confident that they will meet with the people in the country. However, the main subject of my inquiry is to ask the highest. Secretary of finance for the position of informing the leaders of their tax returns. Yesterday was the highest. Social and housing minister taking the initiative to provide more detailed information on their tax issues and their spouses than there are cases of political leaders. As a result, I decided to discuss with my wife whether we should follow along and accept this initiative that we decided to do and publish yesterday information about the same two years, our last income year, and our last summer. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance whether he is ready to follow this example. We've heard from the highest. Prime Minister that he gave as a requirement for informing of the actual tax pay due to a partnership that other political leaders did the same. Should we agree to publish this information, and perhaps not only for the two years, but also for all the important years so that there can be any doubt that a tax divorce due to a foreign partner in politics has been sufficiently and in accordance with their own official declarations?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u4	Mr. President. I believe that in recent days we have made quite clear how the government will see the outcome. We are in the middle of a council that we are going to complete on the basis of what the government has presented and available in a number of committees of the council. I think it's very important that Congress should return to normal, and it seems to me that it is. Last night I spoke two big cases, a reduction in insurance costs, and further support for a growing company, a innovation firm. These are cases and in other respects I refer to the Constitution. There is nothing new in these same categories of government. They have the same share as they once had, and they intend to continue this assembly. That's the way it is. Regarding what is asked of us, it is that here at the council for many years, people have had a conversation about how we might most likely meet the requirements for the registration of information. It had to be made up of rules on how to sign interest at a council that includes the registration of property, real estate, and other such items. I think that the best thing to do is to want to make changes in this process of information giving elected agents about their possible interest issues here, in a transnational field. At the end of his speech, there was a why. A senator noted that he felt that it was important for humans to be able to discern what has been said about possible association with debinos. It just makes up every person the way he chooses, including me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u5	A respectable president. It is true that we have chosen to make rules about the membership of members of Congress. It is also quite clear from the past few days that they are completely unsatisfying by the interpretation of government leaders on them. V.E.G. The prime minister has said that if other political leaders do so, he would be willing to inform about his tax returns. I think it's a little strange at the top. A secretary of finance who claims that he had nothing to hide about his tax returns on the grounds of a local society is going to be a villain for the former prime minister in this subject. Will Bjarni son of Benediktsson now come as defense of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, by not publishing his information? What school game are we here, Mr. Honorable President? Is there nothing to say that there is nothing to hide? Is there nothing in the sense of statements that make clear?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u6	Mr. President. Is it not nice not to involve others in this matter? What I said here is that I will just for my part appreciate the need for further information to follow what I've said. It just turns out how it's going to be done. It's the best thing to do when it's done. For the general discussion of what political leaders should give of the information on these matters, I don't think it's unfair that there are special requirements for those in charge of, for example, the Ministry of Presidency or the case of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, as we see from the discussion in other countries, but it must not be forgotten that in the law there are already very rich and special requirements laid on it, e.g. that they do not accept wages because of what they do in other ways than what they are doing at the time. [[The president calls.]] This discussion is important to take care of things, and it's not that I'm trying to create someone else's shelter. [[The president calls.]] I'm just gonna appreciate it for me, how I'm gonna make up my things, just like what I'm doing. A senator has made for himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u7	A respectable president. I'm in the same address in my inquiry about the Panamas. One statement that the Panama Documents have invented in Europe, and more is about the tax collection of international corporations. Today, for example, we saw the scope of such tax losses in the United States, an Oxfam estimate that there is a total of 1.4 million dollars in the United States tax collections. It's such a figure that you can't really imagine it. It must be possible to buy both the sun and the moon for that amount. But we have also had very strong evidence in this country regarding the tax payoffs of international corporations. There have been careful exposés at Castlight that make it more likely that Iceland's big business will make a quick profit by moving it out of the country as interest pay to linked companies into tax industry. After such factors, it seems to be obvious. At least I don't want to say that there's strong evidence to that effect. Take care of the highest. Ministers, as the European Union is doing, as OECD is doing, use the Panama Documents as a special reason for this country to do something about it? To prevent the tax payoffs of international corporations in Iceland? Does a law have to change that? For example, the government was referred to a bill that handles the thin self - esteem, and the bill is there. Will a minister take the initiative to change the law in this regard? Do you consider a minister who uses resources in some of these companies' investment agreements to enter the accounting and get everything on the table for tax returns and profits from these companies? [[The president calls.]] How are you planning to go to the top? A minister will take advantage of the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u8	President. International cooperation in this field has focused mainly on two or three aspects. First of all, root out money and second, eliminate the secret, the fraud. When a person flees from natural taxation at home by making use of the classified areas in order not to need or to get away from giving up income, income, debt, alone in business. Thus, the information exchange agreements that we Icelanders have been actively involved with the reference to the OECD standard, which we are one of the first nations to engulf, and this Northern Community organization, which has produced 44 shares of information exchanges. Indeed, we have done more than most others in that field. Here also matters what we use and how we treat them. When people talk about tax collections, do we agree that we are talking about those who cheat on taxes? Or are we talking about those who come to a low tax area in order to minimize their tax pay? What are we talking about when using the term tax collectors or even tax reformers in this hall? To me, we are talking about those who, rightfully, should pay taxes here and not do so, taking advantage of such associates, such an area, in order not to do so. These are the tax frauds that all the work is about getting their tails, dragging them back here and letting them answer for what they've done. When it comes to investment agreements, I want to draw attention to one thing. People are now referring to international corporations that operate here and take advantage of possible areas of this nature to minimize their taxpayings or after incidents possible compromising rules, let's not rule out anything in those areas. But let's also bear in mind that we've gotten many of these companies into Iceland and with what? By violating their tax obligations. Last time in the last government. A company on Back will never have to pay insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u9	A respectable president. It is amazing that many companies who have been given very good contracts but do not even pay according to them. I'm not going to go into some definition war at the highest level. Minister. I just don't feel okay when big companies, right, along with random contracts and even favorable energy prices, obviously pay off the profit of a country in the form of interest on loans to linked companies in Luxembourg. I would have thought it was the highest. A minister would think that wasn't okay either. But now I'd like to ask, because it's the highest. Minister is the minister of finance and taxes and of these matters in Iceland, and there is an international cooperation to handle exactly this: Minister that he is trustworthy in this cooperation in the light of his affairs? I would also like to ask myself honestly and honestly: Is something related to the Supreme Being? Minister to the demilitarized communities he's going to tell us? Has any tax been paid, for example, in terms of currency, if anyone has been paid? The wise minister puts everything on the table as it has been called, just to gain credibility in international cooperation against tax collections, e.g. large companies? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u10	Mr. President. First about the behavior of international corporations. We need to make sure that the IRS is built up and financed by human ability to look for any suspicion that everything is on the table and is normal. This includes the occurrences of what happened during the course of one's life. A member of the body refers to making a practice or some sort of arrangement within a corporation that is specifically designed to help one avoid the purpose of the law to be paid taxes here. This includes the interpolation guidelines that we have been implementing, and in a sense, about the thin self - esteem. Regarding credibility, it is often difficult to become a judge on his own. But in my case, it's simply that everything has been on the table with the tax authorities. It has never been my intention to take advantage of an investment to exaggerate the matter in some secret way. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, the problem ended, so there could never be any taxation because the matter was settled by loss. [[The president calls.]] That was the case, and really there was nothing more to say about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The answer to whether everything has been said about the matter is yes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to the highest. Education and cultural Minister on the status of the high school. We've had a conversation about them before, and we should not surprise him in view of the reports on community media and magazines that students see themselves only to express themselves publicly about school status. So many schools, about half of the high school in the country, do not trust to run the schools according to the financial resources paid for them, if they are paid, which may be the case here. It has been observed by the chairman of Iceland's School of Education and at the Dean of the Academy of Education that there is no money for traditional businesses, that supply is neglected since the year, and that the accumulated limp of previous years has to be paid up before any money can be paid off to the schools, i.e. Except for the pay. So I have to ask the highest. Minister if he thinks it's acceptable. Does he feel that he has responded to these schools in the past? This person's case shows that he did not have a conversation with the Ministry to review the situation. There were no reports of such a move. It has been shown how you can be within the framework, such as the head of the School of the School of the School of the School of Schools and the headmaster of the Women in Reykjavík, but this cannot be done in the way that the Ministry suggests. Of course, we know that no more cuts can be made in high schools. It has also been observed that early students appear to be calculated differently from similar schools. This has not been explained by the Ministry, according to a schoolmaster. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister will see to it that this is answered and the schools will meet appropriate conditions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u12	A respectable president. The schools involved in this article and are having a financial problem due to a cumulative balance are based on our opinion of five schools. This has been shown in a public discussion of which school is involved. I agree with a leader in that we can't let the situation stand that schools with this angle are completely iced in terms of the budget. It just makes more problems, it doesn't solve any trouble doing it this way. On the other hand, schools, such as other public institutions, are required to be timed, so as to work at the angle that is formed. I've had, a respectable president, a meeting with a financial minister, this last morning, where we discussed these matters. I can tell you in the basis of this inquiry that there will be a special application of the rules and how these schools are treated with a view to trying to find a better way to allow their shoes to pay off the angle they are facing without such a situation forming, as has been put on the subject. Because this was specifically asked about meeting with the principal, I want to know that I had a recent meeting with the headmistress of the Women's School in Reykjavík, where this very matter was specifically discussed. It's a regular meeting of the Ministry with all the school champions. Of course, these matters have come to us, and we have considered them. We've also been trying to analyze the development of the school system, whether there's something special there that we need to consider. But we can see from the five schools we discuss here that this situation exists. It is a limp, and school has been so successful that while the pile is not paid financial support. [[The president calls.]] This need to be considered, for obviously it is not a solution to the problem of approaching him in this way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. It's a good thing people are talking and talking about it, because it's about them too. Undeniably, though, it may be very unusual for schools not to get a job to make sure that daily school activities can go decently. We also have to face the fact that the formula, which has been bitten for many years, is not okay. We need to deal with it. The minister did not answer when I asked why the answers had not been heard. I mention that a senior at the Academy of Education in Akureyri is increasing by 1.6% between the years, but in the Breinholt High by 5.7%, just for example, these are very much the same schools. We need to get into it and make sure that it is done. Of course, if the state makes a bargain, it has to pay in accordance with collective agreements, pay for them. [[The president calls.]] It's where the knife seems to be in the cow much of the country's schools, including those who run away from sources, they still say, "We're cutting down everything else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u14	A respectable president. In terms of collective agreements, my members of the Ministry have been thoroughly investigating this aspect of the matter. Of course, that view continues, so we want to discern this for every school very accurately. In terms of high school contributions, I would like to arouse, a respectable president, the attention of Congress members that in 2013 were donated to high school at the cost of 2016, 188 billion. The 2016 budget is 21.7 billion, resulting in an actual increase of 15%. [[Up front.]] It's called here to a new collective agreement. Yes, the teacher's salary is a dominant factor in the quality of school. We know that. By increasing our teacher's salary, we are improving our school activities. This is not just some part of the external or external expense team; it is a fundamental part of the school work. In school, pay is in the range of 75◯90% of the cost. Of course, the increase that has taken place in 2013-2016, which is about 15% real, gives evidence that this government wants to invest in the education and reward of teachers, thus improving the work of school in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u15	A respectable president. After the last week, all of us agree that it was rather amazing, many things are on the loose yet. In particular, I would like to know how to do so. The secretary of finance envisions that the budget for 2017 will take place. We are naturally in the first year or the first phase of going through public finances that will increase the participation of the council in making budgets. However, in the discussion the question has been raised that even submit the budget for the end of this council, i.e. Council 145. I think the entire body of Congress and the nation has to know, in effect, what plans the highest. Secretary of finance is already on the budget for the next year. We cannot really know how to work, how to prepare. It cannot be said that this council will agree with funding if there is to be a future election, simply because this is to be both a major campaign and a matter of policy. So I'd appreciate it if a financial minister would agree to a budget like that. at a summer assembly or something like that. I'd like to get some information from the highest level. Secretary of finance on what he is thinking and how he is making the rest of his life when it comes to budgeting for 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u16	A respectable president. Of course, there is no way to agree to this council for the next year. It's perfectly obvious. I've been speaking about how things will continue in the same situation they've been. This means that people continue to prepare funds, as is being done in all legal matters. Governments are already finishing the budget on top of June. We can do that in June. It is not excluded that, on the basis of it and its work, a financial bill will be submitted in September. Asking questions like that is not excluded. We can talk about it. This guarantees that everything in the government is ready for the next year's budget. After the election, there may be some new emphasis for a new government that would then appear in the financial bill that the new government would provide. But with this, we are making sure that there is some administrative authority in Iceland, despite every four years, or more often after the incident, there is a need to renew the Council's commission. That's how people do it regularly. If I remember correctly last Norwegians who chose in the fall. The divorced government provided a financial bill. Then there was an election. A new government put in place a financial bill, which, in fact, was virtually unchanged in that case. Now, I'm just trying to handle an inquiry because it all seems very vague. Senator. But what she seems to think is wrong, that the government has a plan to accept a new budget for 2017 this summer or early in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u17	A respectable president. I'm so happy to hear it. Secretary of finance has been able to answer my question. What I didn't think was quite clear, and this is, naturally, what the whole body of Congress has been calling out for, is whether we can be confident that an election will take place in the fall. Our budget is of utmost importance, so that we are all at the same level when it comes to knowing what we have on the budget and what the rest will be. The whole thing goes hand in hand, and I'm glad to hear that this council will not be approved with a financial bill. However, it seems that the Generals and the Supreme Court. Ministers have something to withdraw elections in the fall. So I'd like it to be completely clear and clear, clearly until it isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u18	A respectable president. When a new government was formed, the support it had at the council was tested. Hv. A senator was one of those who did so. At a vote for mistrust in the government and violation of Congress, the government had the support of 38 members of Congress. With the wealthier things, the government will simply continue to operate, as we have so often said, on the basis of the terms of the council that have arrived at the council and after the events of other urgent issues that may need to be raised. They have been mentioned, such as. A bill for invitations on the Off-country. Then things go on going on. The government has proclaimed that she wants to finish these matters and that it is important to make the most of the time. It has been mentioned to choose in the fall. Yes, that's what they're trying to do. But it is important that things work out properly at the council and that there is some progress in the work the government has done. We have also had a meeting with the government and have offered a conversation about how the government seems to see this happening. [[The president calls.]] However, the first meeting ended by testing distrust.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u19	A respectable president. In the case of the highest. The secretary of finance just now said that he thought it best and most reasonable that things would just go on as they have been. I have certain sympathy for the highest degree. The secretary of finance considers it the naturalst approach in the political storms that have been brought into line by the Independence Party and that the Ministry of finance is placed in the position of building a bill of campaigns for the Independence Party, which will then become some kind of topic document into the Independence Party's campaign. To feel that it is acceptable describes the highest possible way. Ministers and management parties are walking around the Board of Directors. V.E.G. A minister has repeatedly said that no one should get away with tax fraud, even though he himself is one of those in Panama's documents, where Iceland's rich and its societies have been putting their property away from tax payments or from public knowledge at all. This is the result and product of greed, for it is natural to cheat on taxes and actually steal from the common people. There were considerable coverts in the political bitch last week, and it has been observed that the Independence Party had considered unacceptable that an advanced prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, would be in charge of the government, causing him to resign from office. That's why I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance in what he considers to be the difference between his own case and the Panamas' case. The last prime minister, Sigmur Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who is still the chairman of the gate of forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u20	A respectable president. It conveys a certain attitude in the case of some. A senator is to assume that when a person brings up a financial bill for a election, it's always a bill of campaigns. I don't know if it's the highest. The former minister is sharing something with us by his own experience, but I recall the fact that the left party was in the administration of the election in 2009, it was a minority government that served in February, March, and April, and it was to be done no less than to change the constitution - without a complete agreement, without a total agreement with the nation, without consulting other political parties at the council. For a few weeks, a memory management was going to change Iceland's Constitution. Happily, those plans did not fail at that time. To speak of a government that has a democratic agency and that supports a wealthier part of the council violates some traditions and customs and works out by letting its administration system do its duties, including. The duty we have to prepare for the next year - it's very important to witness this, to see that they do. A senator something unnatural on the road. This approach is quite remarkable. With regard to the other questions, I'd like to say that it would be informative to take a little wide discussion about international business and tax issues, including A course of course. A senator supported it at the time, attracting the country with a major tax charge, and for years, with tax returns for an international company and thus attracting it to Iceland, a company that is then only in Iceland does not pay laws of taxes, companies that benefit from billions of taxes in building up infrastructure so that companies are ready to come to Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for turning the question period over, but let's stick with the form. He is the one who provides answers. [[Up front.]] It is only natural that he makes his answer about the previous governments, but it is an embarrassing fact for him and for the Icelandic community that he is still on the lead, and he must answer for that reality. There's been a time here to the highest. The minister thinks it's normal that he would recommend a budget bill in any way before the fall election, and I would like to ask him if he's not prepared to confirm it because he says that the fall election is scheduled, that there should be no new council. He said at the step meet famous that it would be. Then I ask him to review with me what government it was that meant there would be a CC protocol here to put a tie in the taxes on debinos.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u22	A respectable president. It was during the last term that the CFC rules were passed into a law with a measure of support for a council, if I recall correctly. There was quite a general agreement. And what does that law say? Doesn't it say that it's all normal to have a workforce and income in low taxes as long as you give it up and pay for the taxes laid on the law? Isn't that right? May it not be said that CFC legislation is a form of recognition that international transactions can lead to activity in low taxes, that the Icelanders merely reimburse the ability to take back the tax benefits to a certain extent, although only if the low taxes have taxes that are more than 2/3 of what the taxes were in Iceland? I can't see better than that. A senator is here, by drawing attention to the CFC rules, to offer a special blessing on having a business like that, thereby having taxable activities as long as taxes are paid and given to the tax authorities. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] This, of course, is fundamental.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u23	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a temporary reimbursement of film making laws in Iceland, No. 43/1999, with subsequent changes, on Council Report 1020. The bill suggests some changes in the law No. 43/1999. In short, the subject of the bill is made up of three aspects. First, it is suggested that the duration of the law be extended by five years, i.e. until the end of 2021. Second, it is suggested that the percentage of reimbursement by the law be increased from 20% to 25%. Third, it is suggested that the reimbursement management agency be made clearer, and candidates are given the option to sue an independent committee's decision on reimbursement, on the other hand, on the matter of interpretation of income tax laws on what constitutes to be production costs, etc. and to the Ministry for other aspects. Before I study the subject of the bill, I'd like to give a little more details about the history of the case. The main objective of the 1999 law on temporary reimbursement of filmmaking in Iceland is to promote national culture and presentation of national history and nature with temporary support for movies and TV programs produced here. It is also an important role of the law to promote knowledge in national films by cooperating with foreign professionals. By attracting foreign filmmakers, Icelandic professionals can be trained to do their own work in this area and to improve the performance of the film industry here. A lot of this has been going on. During 2015, the success of Icelandic films has reached new heights, such as Huruar, Fúsi, Hóss, and Þrós, to name some, received awards for foreign film holidays, but Icelandic films received over 100 prizes of international film holidays around the world last year. In addition, because of the big film Everest, technical work was being done on the land. Nevertheless, this young industry still lives under difficult employment conditions, including those of the United States. due to small markets and limited financial resources for domestic filmmaking. Thus, the subsidies of the law have been a major factor in the growth of national filmmaking and have contributed to the increase in projects and areas that have subsequently resulted in the growth of professional activity on a yearly basis. For domestic filmmaking it is important that Icelandic filmmakers continue to have the opportunity to work with the most qualified professionals in the world, thus receiving training that is only limited to available in a country in which university film education is not available. It is filmmakers' evaluation that cooperation with such professionals is one of the basic forces in modern Icelandic filmmaking. Current legislation fell from force at the end of 2016 and was last extended in 2012. The pay ratio of the law was originally 12% but increased to 14% in 2006 and to 20% in 2009. On the basis of the law, over $2.6 billion have been paid from a government fund to the manufacturer. Of these 5.6 billion, 55% have gone to Icelandic projects and 45% to foreign projects. At the same time, there has been a growing number of well - beings in this article. Capacent's recent report on the film industry's status shows that the overall activity of this article has increased by more than 37% from 2009 to 2014, with a total of 34.5 billion dollars and 15.5 billion when production of films and TVs is considered only. Capacents's report also shows that tax revenues for television and movie industry are 7.3 billion and 12 billion in total if the influence of industry on the arrival of tourists to the country is included. Is Capacents's assessment that the government's contributions to the article, including nuv, film fund, and film reimbursement, are twice as low as the tax paid by the state from the article, that each dollar returns to twice as much. In December of last year, at the World Council of Economic Institutes of the University of Iceland, I requested to work on the economic effects of film making in Iceland with special emphasis on regional effects. It shows that the scope of this article has increased dramatically, and the increase has become one of the biggest in foreign film projects. The report says that in 2013 the production cost of films amounted to over $15 billion in terms of national interest, the cost of film production was about 2.6 billion, with about $3.2 billion in pay. This is about 0.2% of the total value of all industry in the country. A report by the Institute of Economics reports that it is not easy to evaluate the total number of annual film projects in Iceland, but taking into account the secondary jobs, it may be expected that well over a thousand people are working on and in line with movie projects that are reimbursed. The report also shows that the economic impact of movie growth is of vital importance whether and how we take into consideration the secondary effects. Nevertheless, it is undeniably undeniably that filmmaking strengthens that growth and development. V.E.G. President. From the above, it can be noted that the reimbursement system established in 1999 has been a major factor in the growth of national filmmaking and has contributed to the increase in projects and expansion that have resulted in the growth of professional activity on a yearly basis. Thus, in view of the scope and translation of filmmaking for the Icelandic economy, compare the above reports of Capacent and the National Institute for Economic Effects of Movies in Iceland, the bill that I recommend will continue to be given temporary reimbursement for filmmaking in this country until the end of 2021. As I mentioned at the outset, the bill suggested that the percentage of reimbursement be increased from 20% to 25%. The fact is, there is considerable competition between countries, fights, and cities around the world to get foreign producers to film, TV, and other footage, such as advertisements and music videos. For this, there are a number of reasons, but the key factors are that are professional, currency - making, and the country's introductions in foreign lands can turn into a positive image and increase the revenue of tourists if successful. Iceland's main competitive countries are countries that offer similar conditions and are found here on land, preferably snow, glaciers, falls, black sand, and vastly without a background structure. However, other factors have an impact, such as the reimbursement system of the country, as well as the price and supply of the resources and services. The main reason that the bill suggests that the proportion of reimbursement will be increased from 20% to 25% is to ensure that Iceland will remain competitive as the location of foreign films to meet the growing international competition for this industry. For example, in January 2016, the law of reimbursement for filmmaking took place in Norway, where the percentage of reimbursement is exactly 25%. In addition to the Norwegian law, there were reimbursement regulations in other countries, including correspondent in Britain, Czech Republic, New Zealand, and Italy In view of experience in carrying out the laws of the past few years and with the evidence that there is a growing legal party, the bill that I recommend in the third order is directed by an independent committee to oversee the payment of the reimbursement. At the same time, there is a clear basis for charges. Is it suggested in the spirit of a good government, for simplicity and, among other things, according to comments made by Government Accounting? For example, it is considered that interpretation of what is considered to be a cost of manufacture in the sense of income taxation and that it is reasonable to believe that such a conflict is directed to the head taxation committee, where there is a expertise in solving these issues. As shown in the report on the bill, the reimbursement system of the law includes the state of aid in the understanding of the European Economic Area, which is subject to the EFTA, ESA, and the ESA has previously agreed on law No. 43/1999 and other changes to them. Therefore, the ESA should be informed of the bill and its value, should be legally recognized, subject to ESA consent. Finally, it should be noted that in the production of the bill, the EU was consulted by the Icelandic filmmakers, filmmakers, the movie center of Iceland, Iceland's Office, and the Ministry of Economics and Economics. I view general agreements and loneliness as being within the film sector's subject of the bill's subject and that this is taking an enchantment in both economic and cultural policies and supporting further development by the European film industry, with a positive side effect. Mr. President. According to this, I suggest that the case be followed by this discussion referred to 2 Corinthians. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u24	A respectable president. I have described it before, and I now declare it again in my discussion on this matter that I am thoroughly skeptical about subsidies and governments, such as the one that this bill announces. But I would like to ask the highest. Professional minister. If this bill succeeds, I wonder if there's enough transparency in this case in the reimbursement. Of course, I see at the Department's homepage that there are equally reimbursed projects that have been reimbursed at the cost of production, but all of which are very strong. I tend to compare this with the projects that receive special tax appeals with reference to specific laws there, where people make a special agreement with the state of which they appear and are outlined very accurately what human will be enjoyed by taxes. There may be taxes, credit taxes, income tax, real estate fees, and so on. In these matters, however, it seems that people only contribute notes for the cost of production. That's why I'm asking the Minister what kind of cost this is. Is this, for example, the expense that foreign producers have of hotel living here? Is it pizza cost for the production of the place and the rest of the street? What is it, and what is not normal for this to be done, to reimburse these factors?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u25	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I know her view of these matters, and in principle, I agree with her. Of course, if we had a simple tax system without exception, a low tax rate, and so forth, we would be better off. A senator debates that ideologies. In this case it is, though, that we may not yet be, and me and what. A senator will continue to fight for it, in place of the fact that our tax system is the most competitive. Then these images will be made, these jobs will be created, opportunities and income, just not here. That's the environment we want to make sure we have a young industry in this country. For what the senator asks about the transparency and what is considered to be cost of production, I would first like to agree that I think the transparency is of the good. That is exactly why we publish these assignments. You may want to consider how we can increase that. The law states: At the cost of manufacturing, all the costs that fall on the land and that are allowed to reduce the income of a business enterprise according to the regulations on income taxes. Unlike the barbaric agreements. A senator mentioned, given the discount of certain tax stocks, is here paying back the rate of production costs under Icelandic income tax laws. If there is a matter of opinion about what has come, we are, in the spirit of improving the administrative arrangement, to give it a ruling power to the head of tax committees, where knowledge and experience in that area are involved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u26	A respectable president. Indeed, it is urgent to make the ultimate claim. A minister mentioned, what kind of reimbursement is involved. A respectable president. The law may be called a law on temporary reimbursement of filmmaking, and its name may be somewhat misleading because it could be thought that it was paying back something from a government fund that taxpayers or government funds have taken away before. You see, it's not that. There is far more extensive reimbursement. The total cost of making films or TVs in this country is actually being reimbursed, as mentioned in 2 g. The law. The calculation of reimbursement thus takes into account the total production cost of a movie. There is no roof on it. I wondered, " Is this reimbursement not proper if people are convinced that it is necessary, which is not? ' Besides, I'd like to point out that moviemakers, Icelanders, and, of course, benefit from the coincidence, are competing with others in Iceland who do not enjoy such indiscriminate behavior. I take as an example the hotel business that rents out to foreign parties, and the cost is reimbursed. He's competing with other hotel drivers. People who do makeup in the movie industry also compete with others as persons who may not be in the movie sector, but in other places, and so on. That's why I ask if it's not natural that it is publicized as to what kind of accounts it is that the foreign or Icelandic people suggest with the government that the taxpayers repay them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u27	A respectable president. It is the first thing to take, of course, the manufacturing company and the film industry pay their taxes, as do other articles in this country. Of course, a reimbursement service is paid a merit tax. Remuneration and other remunerations and other tax returns are paid. It's got to be totally clear. This is a reimbursement, as I read from the law earlier, of part of the production cost that falls on the land and falls under the Icelandic tax laws. Then it's the government's opinion of what falls under it. Is that hotel cost? Yeah, I guess if actors and employees around the film have to stay out of town to film. Of course, it is the cost of manufacturing. Whether they should be covered or not has not been placed on them in these laws. I agree with that because one of the advantages we have had since 1999 is that it is simple. It's not. That's 20% of the cost, as I crossed over. It's simple. They know how it works, and they've gone pretty straight. As soon as there are other laws, they reduce simplicity, so I haven't been in favor. Besides, it's proportional. There's been a payback of the cost of falling, so to me it's just and fair to have it without a roof.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u28	A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep a long fist about this. I think it's fine. I have long felt that Icelandic film and Icelandic culture especially need special government support for the simple reason that the Icelandic tongue is not competitive as a cultural phenomenon on a global scale. It's really simple to me. Therefore, if we live in a larger society where our language is competitive as some kind of language designed to communicate between non - Icelanders, we need national support. We'll keep the Icelandic tongue in my opinion for a few practitioners, not just romantics, though I think that in itself is quite enough, at least for me personally. I don't know about anyone else as far as I'm concerned. I know this because I have lived in Canada, there are people called First Nations in English. Icelanders call them Indians. I don't know if that sounds inappropriate. But people of that family don't know their native tongue. It doesn't know what their grandmothers and their grandmothers used to say. This means that these people do not know the jokes of their culture or stories except translated into English or French or any other language that people speak. I think it is very important for us Icelanders to keep in Icelandic language so that we are still reading our own story, our own background. That's a very practitional point I consider. In order for Iceland to survive the 21st century and the technological development that is inevitable, we must give particular support. This means that we need to do things here that may conflict with the economic models that many people remember otherwise. In principle for these reasons, I support this and other similar issues. Although this is not necessarily just films made in Icelandic languages, I believe that it is a very important part of the state to ensure that Iceland, Icelandic culture, Icelandic nature, and Icelandic language are visible elsewhere in the world because the key criteria for survival in my opinion are simply the interest of foreigners, the interest of people in Icelandic culture. I think it's very important that foreign people have even moved here, or tried to move here rather, to learn Icelandic and to get to know Iceland - but for that, Iceland has to be seen. If it is to follow the market laws when it comes to using a foreign language, I don't think that goal will be reached. At least I'm afraid of it. That's why I find such a case far more justifiable when it comes to subsiding culture in general. I understand the view that the State is not supposed to subjugate culture. But I don't agree completely with that, especially for the above reasons. Other than that, I find it strange that the state is between certain arts. Who decided that one music was especially elegant and that others were not? Why is this the role of the State? I think it's a good question and important, and it's important to answer it. I think the answer is there when it comes to Icelandic culture. Similarly, I could take an art form that may not be just as widely accepted in every class of society, e.g. rap music that I'm not much of for myself. Still, it is important for our tongue to continue living in a new environment, to be experimented with, to try on, and to try to put it into a particular art form. I think there's enough interest in the Icelandic nation itself to live up to such arts, and it's basically not an animal in production when it comes to providing funds for it and perhaps just by recording, publishing, and so on. True, the cost continues to decline, as is true of most ideals. However, when it comes to films, it is an extremely expensive project. It takes a lot of investment. It takes a lot of money to start and finish the job. Many people need to gather together at the same time and do some organized things. While many cultures do not require this special financial support to promote the work, they need to work basically. Many songs are composed by interested persons, simply because a person has a need to express himself in different ways. It's beautiful, and it's awesome, and I think we should continue our program to aim for the greatest Icelandic language so that we can keep our language out of this century despite the challenges of modern technology that have already happened to us and will continue. I haven't been over the math in all of this, but I also think it's economic reasons to do this, at least something that the galliable right men might call excuses. I don't have the guts to say it, but it's a good thing for me to think that such reasoning would also come to the fore and that people would reason with it. While the free market is the finest tool for solving problems, it is not the best way to solve all problems. One of the problems the free market will not solve is that Iceland is holding Iceland in Icelandic language for this century, and although more problems were taken care of if that is the case. I think it's important to keep those views in perspective because if these issues and the similarities revolve solely on economic grounds, I feel that there's something to forget about the main points. The main point must be to strengthen the production in these cultural and geographical sectors. After saying this, I simply admit that I fully understand the criticism of this as well as the criticism that sometimes arises in these matters, but I do not agree with them for the reasons I have recommended. Because of the crowd, I feel that it is worth it to mention that both my parents have done a movie project in the past, so it could well happen if they do it again. I want to keep it in the light of recent events. I don't necessarily think that this has a major impact on my interest relationships but to try to plough up that culture, so we went off for a while, I thought I should mention it. To put it another way, I like it, and I'm here to support it, but I'm glad there's more to it, both cultural and economic.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u29	A respectable president. For word's sake. For example, a senator may be just making a decision that this matter may be far more than strengthening Icelandic films. I don't know why. A senator has entered the bill and the laws under consideration, but this is the case with movie producers, the film taken and produced on the land, is authorized to receive a reimburse the total production cost and is now suggested to a 25% share. This is not necessarily a reimbursement of a reimbursement tax paid here, no, it has been authorized and is authorized here to reimburse the percentage of total production costs. I asked especially the highest. Minister on whether or not this is under the heading, e.g. Hotel cost. I call attention to the fact that the value tax from hotel attendance is 11% today, but this bill allows a 25% reimbursement on hotel services. That's why I'm asking. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Bragason, Helgi Hrafn Gunnsson, exactly what his attitude is to this day. This has had no strength to speak to Icelandic culture for itself. This is where they produce all kinds of films, foreign images, many cultural and fine photos, don't make it a subject or a special part of this matter. Has a what? A senator has no idea whether this is a government fund and taxpayers should put their priority, e.g. during a time when the state funds are in debt and the money is called for on a very important project, e.g. in the field of health? Is this one of those things? A senator believes that should be the priority?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u30	A respectable president. Priority for what? Of course, the Kingdom has to take on a number of projects. I don't think that any task should be stopped or reduced if it is not in some particular priority. I may not consider this the first thing to do with anything like that. The health system. I think it's very important to raise my budget. But it's leftovers of state funds, I'm not going to go into why it's, it's just that, that's why we don't need anything in my opinion to go into debt more to share in these projects. As noted earlier, I do not feel that the state should be involved only in priorities. As for production, this is not necessarily a case of films in the Icelandic language, but it is very important for industry, such as the film industry and other industry in Iceland, that foreign knowledge is involved. This is supported by the knowledge and experience of foreign people. Here's a suggestion for 25%, it leaves 20%, and it's actually longer. I'm aware of what the bill is about, if anything. A senator is in favor of the reasons I tore up earlier, but it is also worth the effort to look at 1str. the laws the bill suggests will be changed. 1st par. is the aimless law I'm going to read here, by permission of the president: ▪ The aim of these laws is to promote the growth of national culture and the presentation of national history and nature with temporary support for movies and TVs produced here on the country. That's the point of the law. The bill is designed to continue to contribute to that goal and to continue with it the same methods that give to them. I think it's appropriate now. But I can answer. A senator so if the state's financial debt were now, I'd be more skeptical, but that includes this investment, an investment that you don't exactly calculate in numbers exactly how it worked, but it's not a simple waste of money on the part of the state, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u31	A respectable president. I'm really happy if it's so bright around me. A senator sees that the state fund has already gone into debt. It is not, of course, that the end of the term has been extremely successful. However, the debt of the State Fund is still at hand, and the next loss is an enormous task that will further bring them down so that the financial expenses of the state's funds and taxpayers can be reduced indefinitely. That's, of course, in this view I mention the need for priorities. Hv. A senator believes that this is a project that is merely a question of whether to quit or not to stop. He feels that it should not be stopped. In 1999, I called attention to the fact that the law on temporary reimbursement for film making became a reality, with 12% remuneration rates. But, as mentioned, much more, and this change took place in 2006, and the pay rate was raised to 14% and again to 20% in 2009. I ask: What are the reasons why now that you have to increase it to 25%, which is far higher than the country's worth tax? What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u32	A respectable president. I have probably found myself in the first speech, of course, what I was going to say with the state's status that he was no longer thrown with a tilt. In terms of the need to raise to 25%, I think she's fine tore up in the bill itself. This is for competitive reasons against other nations, such as the U.S. Norway, who also has 25%. [[Tax competition?]] We compete with other nations when it comes to the culture and presentation of our country, that is the case. I hear what you're saying. A senator wondered if there is a competition for taxation or government spending. Of course, we are always competing with other nations on many terms. Many on the right side want to compete in having the lowest taxes. There's a point I don't agree with, I respect it, it's a legitimate opinion, I'm not quite there myself, but I understand their viewpoint and respect that people have them. However, when it comes to strengthening Icelandic culture, such as the aimless laws here suggested for change, we need to do so in my opinion with tax money. It's just the situation we're in. When we compete with such countries as Norway, a larger nation, we cannot be different from them, neighbors, and our friends people who are closely related to us, and in many respects, with comparable benefits to filmmaking, we cannot withdraw from them again. Well, that's my position anyway. Therefore, I support the increase from 20% to 25%. Maybe I'd feel differently if we were going from 12% to 25%, but the numbers probably looked different then. But this is a five-point increase. It is extending the laws that are already in effect. I don't see any reason to slow this down. I see a reason to step in, and that's why I'm in favor.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u33	A respectable president. I didn't mean to talk about 1st. About this matter that I support my mind. But I couldn't help myself because it's interesting. As a minister of this seminar class myself, I came through the council with a 20% rise, so I know the matter well. So, in many ways, we are in an all - out competition with the whole world. For example, we're in the realm of creative subjects that the movie sector is involved in an all - out competition with the whole world, the world's market. We need to make a decision regarding where we will place ourselves in the competition for the larger projects that make up film projects. I've been on the side that we should be participating in that competitively competitively, trying to get these projects in here because they are very suitable for our economy. Except for bringing in a project on a very broad foundation, i.e. In many areas, this is not only the pure film and its contents but also all the fuss around it, the side effect is vast. There are all kinds of driving and dining, and everything that comes with it is also a powerful influence, so that the wave from such activity is great when they are here. We know this well. In addition, the impact of the advertisement is not measured as the appearance of a large landscape in large foreign films and when we see foreign stars covering their lands on communication medias. This is a priceless commercial for Iceland as a destination, for example, for tourism. It'll be late to fully assess the effects of this kind of project here. However, when it comes to creative articles, there have been several reports on them, and the film is among them. It has been shown that the money placed directly in it brings back much. Ágúst Einarsson, Dr. Physics, has made a record of this and has shown that the economic effects of creative ideas are vast in our society. Simply put, at times you have to put a crown out to get more back. That is so in this case. If we don't make a deposit, it's because they didn't come in because they plus more money, the higher money we make, didn't come in the box. That's what this is about. We get a lot of money from this assignment and also from the waves, as I call them, around them and part of it goes back out. So I don't feel that there is a need to set priorities for other projects, since a public business with this spending team cannot be compared, as it were. It's really a circuit. Money items come in, and some of them go out again. It can be seen as a market, either by advertising us as a country for filmmaking or as an interesting destination for tourism. At the times we live, in which social media play as much role as we can see, there will never be money to get publicity about Iceland on the part of the people here who have been filming in large foreign chat parties. It's the side effect. That's why it's a good investment for us to go this way, and that's why I support it. I'd like to mention at the end that there have been some measurements of the effect this has on us. I think it's important that we keep tracking it, i.e. setting some standards, what goals we are going to reach, and then keeping an eye on them. It is not easy, for it is so extensive and has a powerful influence around it. Nevertheless, we can do so narrowly, and we have done so in the past, remembering that it was 2010 or 2011 that we took together a number of projects and measured their impact on the state funds, and that was a very positive effect. Then, too, the scope around them must be examined, i.e. what the elder's worth, if he understands what I mean by it. A respectable president. I support this matter and hope that it will succeed at this council. It was an interesting discussion that took place earlier, and I believe it would be worth the journey to go through even more of the creative branches of this model.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u34	A respectable president. I have not kept in mind my opinion that the coincidences of any kind when it comes to taxes are not for good, possibly for a short time, and for those of course those who enjoy the coincidence, but certainly not for the long time, only if it is to call attention to the core of the matter, which is that, because of the need for people to give taxes, the releases of any kind, reimburse, or in any way that men want to be in taxable, it is because of one reason that taxes are too high and not competitive men with other countries when it comes to taxes. In fact, those who flee to under taxes are now the most highly spoken of competition in taxes and taxes and are condemned by those who flee to low taxes. They even acknowledge this as well, pointing to the point that such issues as this, reimbursement by film making, are needed because, otherwise, all of these film productions are being introduced to less tax countries. A respectable president. I also want to draw special attention to one thing, because I have observed it, both in the house and outside, that men have, or some, perhaps not fully aware of what kind of payment is involved. This is not the case with paying back some special tax that has been given, for example, the reimbursement of a valuable tax such as tourists get when they come to Iceland and shop here, they can get back a part of the bill of credit. No, it's not paying any other taxes either. It is not that they are being treated as if in other dissensions of movie producers in such a way that they are allowed to cut down some taxes. No, this is because it is being reimbursed a certain percentage of the production costs involved in the production of films in the country. This is specifically stated in the law for which reimbursement is considered in terms of the total production cost of the film without regard to the contribution of the production. I asked the highest. A minister in her history further explained this because even though the wording in the Law was clear, I thought it proper to have it in particular, that here, for example, would be reimbursed at the expense of hotels, reimbursement at the expense of pizza purchases for employees, food and drink, helicopters, whatever the cost of filming may be. I pointed to it in answer to the highest. Minister I thought it would be reasonable that these reimbursements are just being paid exactly what is being paid, exactly what the cost is as a government fund, and the taxpayers are paying back. I think this is important because, of course, all this business is competitive, and in this respect, it's just some who enjoy that reimbursement, others don't. I'm sure it's all on tables. Then I would like to give a special consideration to a talk. The senator who spoke earlier on this matter, of course, that here is no special reimbursement for cultural factors, with reference to culture or Icelandic or such, because, besides this temporary reimbursement for film making them, we have been in Iceland and have had for decades. He provides strength from such viewpoints. It's been claimed, both here and in the discussion of all these cases, that an instrument is reimbursed by filmmaking in Iceland because for a dollar, three will come back to five cents, I've heard. It is suggested, at least, that for one dollar, many return. It seems to me, then, that there was this gold machine that has been invented by many people who have tried to invent it. I don't believe this, of course. I can't believe that a gold-making machine was invented in this way. In fact, it has been estimated that in 2008-2012, there have been a reimbursement and support from a movie fund of over 2 billion dollars. more than tax pay on the same project. I'd also like to mention that this case, in particular, may not be strengthening to filmmaking, but as I've mentioned, there's a film fund that's made stronger, and because of the reasoning, I don't want to mix these two. But I'm sure that in a year's trip, even though this government has managed to bring down a large debt, the debt remains about 70% of GDP, and is urgent to bring it down. I believe that such projects must be compared and weighed in comparison with the basic assignments I have mentioned and that cross - blooded groups are needed. The bill is not merely an extension of the order that had been valid in about 20%, but a significant increase in the reimbursement is being proposed. I'll put a lot of notice on that. There is one thing to want to keep going and to have this arrangement, another to give so much in the way suggested. I'll count and direct it to what it's about. The job committee that gives the case a review of this and also the other issues I have mentioned in reply, which are the competitive ways. Not to be overlooked is the fact that those who work in filmmaking, not just those who come directly to the filmmaking industry, but those who serve it, hotel drivers, restaurants, drivers, and so forth - all of these are jobs that are competitive in the country, and they are quite clear to repay the situation of competition. I agree with what Iceland's High School of Economics has just said that it is, of course, the best for the economy that industry is not divided. It is also helpful to keep in mind what is stated in the report at the highest level. A minister referred to and was introduced at the Council earlier this assembly, which I understand is part of the National Institute of Economics, that it shows that it is very difficult to demonstrate economic benefits from supporting films especially in excess of other sectors. In a matter of what. A senator who spoke before me came up with the very idea that perhaps it would be good for this reimbursement to be in other areas. I agree with that. That must be what people need to ask themselves. Moviemaking competes with the music sector and the theater sector, so along the streets, some have the strength, the direct support, as perhaps the theater does, but the music does not have much or very little to do. [[It's a symphony band, isn't it?]] True, one state band is being fired, just fine, but beyond that, the music may not be much of a state's strength, which pleases me. However, it has helped to introduce the culture of the country and attract tourists to it as well as to filmmakers. If I had to, I'm now no professional in this, I would feel that the music outweighs the films that certainly show an Icelandic landscape, but without its mention in the movies. But, of course, it's secondary, it's just a side effect. The important thing is that everyone sits at the same table when it comes to taxation, both artists and others. Of course, there is no success when one business is about to be removed and strengthened by others. I'm gonna pray. A professional health committee to make a special examination. It is also extremely urgent that the competitive authorities discuss this, get the case informed, and give specific consideration to these views. A competition, by the way, all this stuff is like all other evils, as I started my case, a matter of low taxes competition. I'm happy if they want to participate in that competition and compete with other countries for low taxes. But we're just supposed to do it honestly and with equality in mind and transparency, and have everything on board. We are to reduce taxes and thus attract foreign investors to, foreign cultures, producers, not just movie producers, but music producers and others, with a practical tax environment, in general. I hope that those who are very active in this matter do not lose sight of the fact that this is a project that needs to be addressed and agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to hear a little bit more about it from what. A senator why she thinks tax appeal is a better way than this. Hv. A senator speaks of the need to be clear about this. Okay, all right, that this overcoming competitiveness. I realize that we do what we do. A senator does not agree on the interpretation of Article 1. The laws here are being changed, but it clearly shows that the purpose of the law is to promote national culture and presentation of national history and nature. I'm asking why. A senator would not demand the same transparency as either. A senator would also not also complain about a disturbed competitive position if it was a tax appeal that particularly involved this business if it was not simply a tax reduction across the entire industry, as I know it. A senator is in favor. Given that cultural activity has to be supported above the head, what are the advantages? A senator that has more tax appeal than this, this reimbursement? Would be a what? A senator would agree with such a procedure if the goal was to be the same as the financial expenses or if it had the same effect on the state funds, an overall balance of that? I want to point 'em, too. A senator assumes that there is a difference between filmmaking and music - I can say that because I am the son of a moviemaker and a musician, a musician himself. Making a movie is a much bigger job. It takes much more investment than making music, whether a song or a record. So there is a huge difference. You will not need as much help to publish an album as is needed for the film industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u36	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has seriously misunderstood me. I agree with 1st paragraph. legal on reimbursement for film making, i.e. I agree that we should promote and strengthen Icelandic culture. Big deal. I agree with that goal on my own. But I don't agree that this is the way to do it. Hv. A senator asks me why I'm against paying back but he's supporting a tax appeal. I specifically stated that I do not support any particular tax returns or special tax returns. I've given very little thought to the law on new investing in Iceland and the contracts they're doing on behalf of a government fund where companies, usually in some form of an enterprise, are granted tax appeals. I've been fighting these taxes for years, decades. I'm stressing that if you want to promote culture, Icelandic production and attract foreign investors and foreign cultures, foreign people to produce their cultures here, then the only way you can make the tax environment here attractive to everyone, including the Icelandic taxpayers. That's what we have to do. That is why I pay attention to these special solutions and bits of pieces in order to support the others and the others right now or the rest. The simple system, and in every town, we're guided by equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u37	A respectable president. I'd be interested to know what it's like. A senator intends to expand special support for these cultural activities and similar cultural activities if neither through tax reimbursement nor through reimbursement or financial support such as artist pay or whatever it is every time and film fund and so on, because I don't quite understand the solutions. A senator has a problem other than a tax cut. Now I don't remember seeing popular pictures from the tax-paradise that are often in the discussion, such as Tortolias, or Seychelles, I have not seen that language or history or culture of these nations are more pronounced because these are tax paradisees. I just don't see how reducing taxes in general over heads, a goal that's a good payoff for itself, i.e. In the absence of damage to the interior of the country and to its economic situation at a time, it can make cultural property such as language or history more comfortable internationally. I just haven't seen it happen and wondered if. A senator has some sort of example I don't know about. Now I don't know how far we go outside of each other's understanding of economics together, but I can't see better than any special support for the cultural industry must be a little special. It cannot be special and universal at the same time. If we promote this culture, how should we do so if not with the specific tax appeals for a particular industry or budget for that industry, such as by reimbursement or direct support?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u38	A respectable president. Here, a fundamental difference is made between the right and the left men, such as the rest of us. A senator who spoke here, who can't predict that any things will thrive unless the State has specific solutions, specific actions to support the sector, artistic creation, or otherwise. This is a big misunderstanding. Art and culture thrive where there is an equality, where individuals, taxpayers, and companies in the country are not taxpins but, contrary, are few to retain a larger portion of their resources and have provisions to strengthen culture and art and employment and innovation. That's how we fight right men for it. That's why we're dealing with left men here at council and elsewhere. This is the fundamental difference. Then, for the sake of argument, I'll agree that if they're unfashioned, they're funded, they're already stocked, in this case, a film fund that gives annual funds, an open and transparent scholarship to filmmaking. That's enough, isn't it? Remuneration, such as this bill, is far beyond the standard support of culture and art.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u39	A respectable president. I'm going to start with my speech to blame. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, calling him the man of the left. I've always thought of him as an anarchist, anarchist, rather than a left man.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u41	Well, I think it's pretty close to saying it's not true. Senator left man. This may be an issue, but we senators are expected to come to the aid of others when they are inclined. I'm also going to classify myself on the side of my head. paritaprevir Sigríður on. Andersen has classed himself on the right side of the political scene. It is quite simply this way of culture, science, and art that when it comes to earnings, these articles are a little under attack. Movie production has been made short in Iceland, but it has actually been tried to film here at the beginning of the last century. I remember, most of all, the movie History of the City, and people had high hopes that both novels could be filmed, and I don't talk about ancient stories and make them immortal and thus make Icelandic cultures immortal. That's how I think the Nobel poet Halldór Laxness went to the United States at his time, not to be a writer, but to be a movie writer. In many of his novels, he is often writing a movie script. True, he did this at his own expense, but at some point he received a salary from the Council. But I believe that's the way it is. I can understand what I'm saying. Andersen But it's very simply that if we want to break out of the farm community we're in, we need to think a little bit bigger. This is shown in the report with the bill, which is discussed in the 2001 remuneration process. If we compare this to agriculture, it's probably 1/10 of that amount -- no, it's not even 1/10, it's 1/30 of that money at the time. I think it's worth all that effort. The senator who stands here has quite a bearing on the country. I think after studying the case, filmmaking is actually a national policy. I've studied it on my travels through the country that it separates in various places, e.g. In restaurants and hotels, whether there were films in the area during the winter or not. It is a national policy, perhaps less expensive than many other products that have been flushed down through the years. If we get to the land presentation, I'd like to mention one short movie that's not going too much into it and that's not too much of a fan, not a country, and that's the movie Cold Fever. I think I'll be right about the name in the picture. This image has reached the eyes and ears of a strange market area, i.e. ... East Asia, Japan. Whether it was built up a lot or little, I don't know, but at least some of it was delivered by tourists from those countries. And Japanese tourists are welcome wherever they go. I stepped in before what happened. paritaprevir Beating Ásthildur Andersen with the music. The music enjoys a lot of subsidies, at least in the Symphony Orchestra. I have fought for some music celebrations in the country to receive a little support in some way. Sometimes it has worked, sometimes it hasn't. But somehow I think the land would be poorer if we didn't have musical holidays at Lake Mysea, Salvato, Smokeholt, Church Towns, and other places in the summer. I repeat, these remunerations here are of the order of magnitude that they can be protected. However, it does not say that trying to adapt the Icelandic tax environment to the best, perhaps not the best, but the best one in the world, should stop making the country attractive for production of goods and services so that people come here to take movies. I'm sorting movies under the service articles. This is not the production of the dense clay, the product. I hope my support for this bill is of any importance to you. This is not the personal matter of the Minister now engaged in the office of industrial and commercial ministers. Rather, it is older. The first reimbursement is from 2001, the law is originally from 1999. So the socialism presented here comes from the prevalence of the government of Independence Class and Front Class. The anarchist what? paritaprevir I'm sure the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son would have supported this in its own time. A respectable president. I'm not going to give this speech any longer. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u42	A respectable president. I always enjoy explaining why. A senator of any kind has his mind on each occasion. But first, what? A senator calls me an anarchist, I'd like to ask him why. A senator, starting with a confession: I once called myself an anarchist, in fact, for quite a few years. So after one of my many conversations with other young gentlemen who called themselves an anarchist, I concluded that I had never met two Anarchists who then agreed on what anarchist was like. It's a similar problem you have when talking about a variety of pancreatis. So I'd like to get some sort of self - examination around here and ask if it's all right. A senator can explain to me what he's talking about and what he's saying about what he's here or what he's got. A senator believes that his roots belong to annakis. Is it possible that the person standing here is in favor, or does it, in fact, feel that people have authority over their own body? Or it is that the person standing here believes that a person should be able to speak about religion to one another without fear of insulting them and thus be opposed to 125 C.E. recent penalties? I would be very interested in hearing everything that was right. A senator has an anarchist to say and the definition of the term or what it is to the person he sees here as a sign of annakism.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u43	A respectable president. In these words I defended myself. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, I didn't intend to discuss this, and this was an absolute detail of my speech. I was going to do some material on the bill. I have developed a talk chair to try to hang on to the subjects under discussion, not going into other subjects. This bill is not about incoherentness, anarchist, per se. On the other hand, let me talk to you about what. A senator here in the side halls of the right and left and annakis, but I don't want to mix it any more with this bill. However, as I am a little conservative, I felt it was unnecessary to cancel a certain article of penalties at the time. [[Up front.]] Other than that, I'm not going to discuss my ideas on the money business in this talk, so it's totally unconcerned. Senator. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u44	A respectable president. It has been a pleasure to observe the trend that has taken place in the sector, the film industry, and the extent of the influence of government's policy to compete with other countries. This has led to an increase in the variety of Icelandic employment that we welcome, giving us a great opportunity. We'll see and hear from our discussion with those who are at the front of this industry in Iceland, that they think the opportunities are even bigger and bigger on the horizon. Thus it has been said that our potential for further full - time development in real - life films is within reach, and its effect does not need to be varied in such cases. The extra product of all this increased diversity, all the equipment, technology and knowledge this has introduced into the Icelandic film industry, is then shown by our people working in this field, Iceland's working in this field, obtaining much more experience, and is thus willing to bring us even more powerful and better chemicals. It is the same with this industry and others when it comes to a foreign venture in Icelandic employment that we are not an island. I'd like to welcome the general presentation of the speakers that they understand that in order to increase the diversity and increase investment in Iceland, it's necessary to come up. I have a full understanding of the point of view that has actually been, in the discussions of the Idea Bill, being moved in the field of the employment committee, and missing it. paritaprevir Andersen's victory earlier, that our tax environment should generally be good and good for our professional life, not to have to come to the special pleasure of certain sectors. But it's only that way in the world we're involved, and we're trying to attract companies to greater diversity in Icelandic commercial life, that there's a great deal of competition in this. Although we have countries that offer a much more economic tax system than we do in general in Iceland, there are also coincidences that are still improving the environment of commercial investments. I'd like to mention Ireland in that relationship. There's a income tax of 12%. We see that there is heaven between the way we taxe our professional lives in comparison with the Irish. In fact, they have succeeded in attracting large numbers of companies, creating much opportunities, and increasing the value of their country. But they are, as has been observed by the representatives of the National Institutes of Iceland, who often come to the job committee, with what is the most powerful thing in this regard, to meet companies in new investors. I think of it as such. So I think there's something in that we're moving a tax percentage in Iceland to the best of what happens, as in Ireland - and maybe a late agreement on it here at the Great General Assembly. Hence, if we are to be participants in this field, we must take steps like this. This article is of particular interest to us in view of what I mentioned earlier how a new article is coming in here as powerfully as it really is. Aside from the valuable creations, experience and knowledge of this development, and the increasing diversity of Icelandic employment, more opportunities for young people who want to be seen in this field, it is undisputed that large films that are highly popular, multimediad, are giving us an indistinguishable and completely different country culture. I think all of us are involved in the marketing of the country as such, so I'm talking about the direct contributions made by the industry and the government putting in advertising and public publicity, very little weight when it comes to such events as these, such as these; or events such as an Eyjafian eruption. It is primarily a combination of such events that we have not had full control of, such as volcanic eruptions and so forth, that we are going to pay for the advancement of industrial activity, which is most important. In this, like other things, we must be on our toes if we are to be among those who will be able to attract this kind of work. A discussion of employment is a process that takes place in view of the fact that professional activities are always being compared. I've let it annoy me that we should put emphasis on this and see in place of someone else. For example, I'm afraid that if we were talking about a second job, there might be a little more singing here in the Senate Hall if we were talking about contributions to other professional groups that some don't like. I think it's very important that we let this down and think about every aspect of our jobs in particular and think about how we can build up and strengthen ourselves in each area so that it becomes a large amount of cake with increasing variety in Icelandic activities, an increase in opportunities for our young people and the growth of communities. In this way we can continue. With an open mind, we need to work harder to settle these issues. For example, we could take a fishing road, we could easily be discussing it. We could so easily have lost ourselves in the field of fishing in this country, being in the same position as most of the other fishies in the world, to form our neighbors. Then we'd be talking about strength to the seaside. There was, for example, decades in Icelandic fishing. But instead of celebrating the fact that the system, the fishing system we started, further the article, increased the nation's enormous wealth, put us in the first place among fishing nations in the interest of the resource, the issue of how we should behave in these resources. There are many, and many are. Congressmen who just want to dump the system. A professional flower may not be easy. Of course, governments at any given time can be very much concerned with the results of employment, the conditions for investments in general. We can refer to the energy - related industry that we in the work committee, across all classes, come to a common conclusion on the members of the Committee for the Council's Reconception. Industrial Minister on new investors in Icelandic employment, on our vision of the future in this regard. Actually, there was one senator who didn't want to be on this committee party, but on the contrary, we were getting together on this vital picture for the future. One of the main theme of our conclusions was just how we could with increasing variety of jobs, increase investment, increase of valuables, including energy-related industry, by building infrastructures in energy distribution systems, guaranteeing solidity in the region - which is quite clear to everyone looking at it may not be guaranteed by the sector that has stood largely as Icelandic marine roads and agriculture in recent years. Modified farming practices and increasing technology in the fishing road simply lead to a change. This is part of it. We have often heard of the large amount of vitamin injection, such as the north of the lake, where for weeks we have been working in the production of a large film, is for the particular community. We watched this during the last winter in Siglusar land when the series of events was being developed Inability to produce our leading people with experience in such projects that the government has created a platform in the books. No matter what we think of the tax system in general - and I said earlier that I have some sympathy for the point of view. paritaprevir Sigrides Andersen, and she's on her team and thinking that we should simplify the tax system and make it more useful for individuals and companies. Our primary objective is to try to create this scene. But that won't do it. We will have to yield more, as is suggested in the bill. In the same way, we had to give more to energy - efficient industry at Bakka, Húsavík, more than we had done before, and that was to get a company to place themselves in the north of England. Now we look at the light that comes with it in that area. A company has recently applied for some 40 different areas, and it has been a long time since Húsavík had an apartment building built in Húsavík. You see, we have to talk all the way through this, and the most practical approach may not always be the wisest. At any rate, events must follow when it comes to talking seriously about building a country, creating a situation for young people as in 75% of cases, a survey of the annual business magazine, said that they could plan to live abroad with certain conditions that involve employment and social service, school and health, and such things as communication, transportation. This is one piece of work in this large picture, and I welcome this step to the highest level. Secretary of the trade. I think this will be to strengthen the article, and I look forward to following through a professional committee. I'm asking all of us to understand trying to keep the debate of reason and expand the views here that I believe will be of some general support; that we can expand them into our discussion of other areas of employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u45	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a temporary reimbursement of film making laws in Iceland. As mentioned in the case of the highest. Ministers and those who have spoken are not reimbursed new ones, but they have spent a long time with people and have been changing over the course of time. During the last term when these issues were discussed, the ratio went to 20%, a great debate was taken to determine whether the State was justified in this way of business and was incurred. I convinced them that we created a great deal of respect in the community in a direct or indirect way that there was a lot of motivation to promote filmmaking in Iceland and to bring in foreign parties to cooperation. In addition, it would be a good land espionage for us that would promote tourism and employment in places of the country where it would otherwise not happen, as mentioned earlier. So it would be well worth bringing in that support and justifiable. I feel the same way today. These changes are being made that this ratio is being increased to 25% and that we are being highly competitive toward various countries around us regarding attracting here to filmmaking. I think we need to make a cold assessment of what it means to keep the position we have today and strengthen it. I can agree that this ratio will increase to 25%, although I'm not thereby saying it should be permanent and to the future. It is said of extension to 2021. Then we will take the situation back, and perhaps we face the reality that the work that has already grown from being a teenager will become adults and will not need a gift from the State. I hope that's how it's gonna be. In my view, these matters are being put in place to support what is considered to be cost of manufacture, which will then be subject to a very detailed assessment of whether it is under Icelandic tax laws to contribute and will be evaluated. It will also be possible to sue the head tax adviser if there is a disagreement. We need to be careful about how to handle matters, how to follow administrative laws, how to protect ourselves from some failure, and how to misuse this support because there is a lot of money in the country's film industry. There is always room for debate as to whether there is a difference between jobs in the country. You want it to be equal. But at least to date, it has been thought of as a warrant without violating other occupations, and this has not been the case. That's why I'm here to see if we can get on with the experience of strengthening and strengthening this trade road in Iceland and then see if he can move on and if he can stand on his own after five years. We need to watch what has been going on in the most powerful filmmaking industry in Iceland, both local and international. This has brought us great and positive attention as a nation and a tourist country. I don't think it's always measurable how much such a positive advertisement will bring us into income at the end of the day. We may come out on a pair or even in a plus on this support. I want to say that I have a positive attitude toward this matter. We, on a job board, will work on this with a positive attitude and look into history and look forward to a more attractive development of the land's commercial life and a greater variety of people. I feel that filmmaking and how it has developed would be a good idea for the environmental and positive image of the country and sustainability of the industry, and it needs to be kept in place for that sign. It is very important for our country's image, and for us to think that respect for Iceland's nature is respected and not harmed, that, while many countries follow the film industry, they will be respected for nature and follow all the rules given.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u46	A respectable president. I want at the beginning, at the end of this discussion, to thank you for a very good and objective discussion and, of course, welcome the wide support we seem to have at the council from all categories. There have been some suggestions that you should consider. It is said that there was a great harmony, yet there is one member who expressed his opinion and expressed himself against this matter, and that is not surprising. I'm not going to repeat what I had to say with what I said. A senator with answers earlier. I simply disagree with that viewpoint, and it seems there are others. I'd like to make a few things a subject. Various factors have been mentioned, to provide economic benefits that come from the case and of this system. It is true that we have made attempts to measure it as well as we can, but there are many things we can't put on. Hv. The head of the trade board listed, among other things, landtroductory items that we protect from the State's hand for land introductions and advertising. There are about 200 million each year that we put into the campaign Inspired by Iceland against the same amount of money from the workplace. We're getting a lot for that money. But how much would a ten - minute interview with Russell Crowe on a chat show in the United States in front of tens of millions of people cost if we had to pay for it? Or an interview with Ben Stiller, or all the pictures that have been shown, to form The Secret Life of Walter Mitty, which unlike many other major photographs that have been taken in Iceland? We see the secondary effects of this, but it's very difficult to assess. But I am absolutely convinced that our economic gain from this is enormous. But the purpose of the law, as it has also been discussed, is, in particular, to increase knowledge of Icelandic culture and nature, to promote the film industry as a industry, where I believe that the benefits are absolutely invaluable and that we will achieve them. Not to be overlooked is the fact that Icelandic films would not be produced to the same extent if there were not to be any strength in the industry, which includes this recycling system by obtaining the most skilled experts, the most skilled producers, the best tools, and other things. All of this has to do with each other. I have visited both production companies in California, U.S.A., and the manufacturer's organization, and I have attended a conference in which those who have to locate movies and put the location of film footage and their show. I am absolutely convinced after the conversation that this support, as well as the need to increase the support from 20% to 25%, is absolutely necessary. It is a competitive environment, a global competitive environment. If we are to continue to do so, we must be competitive. So to answer the question raised here, why were 12% effective in 1999, why this is not enough today, that it is simply because this environment has changed? If we're going to have this, and if we're going to reach the country with the kind of work we're going to do, we're going to have to be competitive. But we need to be careful at the same time that this is sustainable. As taxpayers, we are in spite of these reimbursements getting more into our common funds and into the economy, we are not paying for this. And there's all the data to indicate that. I agree that we should increase transparency in this. We're supposed to keep this thing so that all information is best available. From July 1st, any refunds over 70 million will be paid. K. will be published in the European Economic Area on a new EU or new directive. So we can just think - and I'll just hand it over to the Committee if there's something we should put in the law or if we should do it without a direct adjustment - to suggest that annual accounts be revealed, all of these projects have to be published in the annual accounts and these companies. We can think of a better way to link that information together on our website and thus place it in a better place. It's in everyone's interest that this system works, that the law is being done. I know that the industry itself is very self-indulgent in this, and this is handled because it would be worst for the article itself if it revealed that it was not all right. I know and find it in conversation and cooperation with the movie sector that great ambition is there to make sure that all these things are okay. I'd like to mention just one of the causes of competition and the confusion of a competitive situation, and I don't quite see that. And it was noted that hotels and other non-fiction jobs have a competitive position, so I would like to express my view that it is just another business that benefits and benefits from such projects coming here. The hotel gets more guests, the rentals get more people renting cars. These are valuable customers. I heard of a single mechanic in this city who is given a huge assignment these days because cars need to be changed for the work that is currently being done on Aclinai. As it happens, I am just going to visit them and then look at their assignment afterward and look forward to seeing it. But there is a mechanic who is benefiting from further work. I think it's all economical, as well as what has been mentioned here, i.e. The cultural and land-identification issues. Besides, I have to say something special with a what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who expressed his view that this was a national policy. It's totally like that. We can see that on projects such as what is now east of our films on the second series of episodes of Fortitade. Travelers in the East have been able to have large trades and activities at a time that is equally dead in that part of the country, and this, of course, has a tremendous impact. We are, as we have seen, improving our administrative affairs with the aim of ensuring this in the spirit of a good government. This system has become extensive. That's a lot of money. That is why we are getting the most skilled experts on tax matters from the head tax Committee to evaluate it if there is a difference in the interpretation of tax laws. And by making the committee independent, they are opening up on a lawsuit in case there is a disagreement as to whether a project is going to fall into the law on whether a reimbursement is due. A respectable president. I mention my thanks to those who have participated in the discussion, and I strongly emphasize that this will be done and celebrate the words of the Chairman of the Committee. Business committees that the Committee will ensure rapid and effective management of the situation. It is of utmost importance in this regard to the presence of leadership. Big projects are set on months and years of notice. So you must not get hiccups in this timeline. The EFTA monitoring facility must also be administered in order to assess the system and this process always takes time. I'm happy what's been very prominent here, there's an agreement on this project, and I trust we'll be able to finish it by the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u47	V.E.G. President. I'm going to give a brief talk to review the comments given through a change in the Biblical committee that was presented at Section 2. the discussed bill on housing partnerships. After 2nd. The council received comments, my dear. The welfare committee took them into consideration and reviewed them, and I will briefly follow up on them and then the results of the Committee on the factors being considered. First of all, Bústi hsf. suggested improvements paid by housing partners due to the loss of the home rights due to the forced sale of apartments, as shown in paragraphs 2 and 3. the bill, would have set a peak, would take into account the circumstances, but would not be determined. The daughters should not be able to grow above the value and re-selling of the obtained estate. The daughters would also want to take into account the cost of housing in market areas, which may be lower than the highest permissible value of the court. The nominees were already considered by the above - mentioned decree to consider the situation, which says in Article 12 of paragraph 20. that the benefits of making a decision should take into account the value of farm property at the level of similar dwellings at the time of payment. In particular, the value of living conditions depends on the price to be paid for it, but it can be determined by the other aspects of the housing partnership. Hence, the denominators do not believe that there is a basis for setting a fixed limit. Committee members feel that the improvement is reasonable, as it may be difficult to comply with accurate calculation of their decision. In addition to this comment, we received comments from Busta in the north country that I will briefly explain. Living in the northern part of the hsf. made some comments to the bill after 2nd. The Society criticized commercial markets with place - to - house conditions, but according to Article 1 of paragraph 20. The bill covers the sale of home estates according to the approved co-work society, including the publication of the home-series among its members, each deadline, how... [a system of noises]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u48	The President's taking a short break at the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u49	This is very uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u50	V.E.G. President. Thank you for responding by postponing a meeting for a few minutes during these technical difficulties. I will continue to tell the results of what. The welfare committee about the place where we had to stop before with the story because of the technical problems we had here. A respectable president. Living in the northern part of the hsf. made some comments to the bill after 2nd. The Society criticized commercial markets with place - to - house conditions, but according to Article 1 of paragraph 20. The bill covers the sale of farms in accordance with the approved cohesion company, including how the home estate is advertised among its members, each deadline should be made, how the prices of home planning should be determined by that arrangement, its payment form and the decision of the home planning bill. In accordance with Article 2 of paragraph 10, housing partners may be able to do so. The bill set the minimum and maximum limit for each farm tax. So the bill allows companions to decide for themselves how to sell their homes within the bounds of the law, as suggested by the bill. Living in the northern part of the hsf. noted, too, that there was no warrant for rent-deposit housing. The house - to - house co-work form is tailored to living quarters. Other social skills are more suitable for the work of a roommate. As with current 2 mg, housing partners will continue to be allowed to establish and participate in limited responsibilities, such communities have tasks that are considered important for housing partners. 1st par. it's a law of housing partnerships. Thus, housing partners can form and be involved in tenants, which is considered important for their activities. Living in the northern part of the hsf. made comments also to say that there were no suitable sources for formal cooperation of rural society as well as favor investments on financing and governance of housing partnerships. "B" Unit 5. The bill after 2nd. points specifically to proposals from colleagues and in paragraph 2 of paragraph 6. states that it is permitted to decide in the approved housing community that non - members are elected in its management. So housing partners should be able to work together on financing and management sides with rural society and approval investors. Living in the northern part of the hsf. suggested that housing partners decide in their agreements whether they should be fired without a profit requirement. In paragraph 3 of paragraph 7. The bill after 2nd. Remuneration is taken from housing partners and for 4 mg. c-arms 25. g. It is noted that housing partners work with those in the company who live by their fragments beyond the payment of a home payment. Committee members considered desirable that housing partnerships were nonprofit, guided by increasing the safety of the public. So the nomads do not suggest that these requirements be set aside in agreement. Living in the northern part of the hsf. suggested that housing partners have a prenup, not just a premium, but a court of fasting. The terms of the trade include the use of house - to - house partnerships, regardless of whether a home planning holder wants to sell it. The nomads did not consider it desirable, but it impaired the safety of a home estate sea and therefore did not suggest a change of materials. What will be the price of the prenuptial housing partnerships regarding the trial of members of the Committee? The welfare committee that housing partnerships can, according to Article 2 of paragraph 10. The bill set a minimum and maximum limit for each home payment. Finally, Bústir criticized in the north, hsf. A casual change to the earlier contracts of the club. But according to Article 27. The bill will only apply to local contracts made after the bill takes effect as a law unless it is passed between home stateholders and housing partners. Committeemen at noon. Hence, the General Commission suggests that the Committee on Homing Corporations, as it took place after 2nd. The council will be accepted unchanged, except for any change. The head of the welfare committee, Sigríður Ingabjörður Ingadóttir, will explain in advance afterwards and suggest that the bill be adopted with them little change. Finally, I want to thank everyone. Councilmen who have been in trouble. The welfare committee for all the work that has been put into this case and for a great deal of cooperation on the subject. I ask for a great deal of cooperation in terms of the future shelters to be set aside. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u51	Madam President. I can now shorten my case and refer to what was presented earlier in the matter of a member of the welfare committee in this case. However, I believe it is important that the committee considered this matter between 2 and 3. Although this was not formally referred to the committee. The results of the Commission were not calling them back, since they were not considered to be the need for a follow - up opinion or to make any significant changes in the case. Nevertheless, the committee used the time and gave the comments and viewpoints given to the committee or to individual members of the committee, as discussed earlier. To some extent, we knew these views and had dealt with them in the past, so we may not have had to be surprised if this did not lead to much change from the findings of the committee after much work in the conduct of the 2nd. It has provided the highest standards for business practices and how all of them are done. This is certainly a tricky matter and may, in some respects, be political too, what the thinking of a person would like to suggest the working of these associates, and the legal status of the land estates on the other hand, and the position of his peers. The primary reason for this is that it is in the power of the housing partners to put matters completely in its approved terms, certainly within the framework of the law, how with the home state is handled in such cases, including setting the standards for prices, both minimal and maximum prices. The money laws can shape their own course and have it in their agreement to cash in with their own will if members ask for it. The conclusion, however, is that unscrupulous prices are prohibited, and this, of course, is done in the light of experience and in an effort to protect the budget better from future future benefits. However, the view is valid that it may be part of building confidence in the company and attracting people to participate in this housing of housing that the budget has at least the intention and policy of paying the street if they need to move abroad or to abandon the Society of any other situation. I also believe that other changes made by the Committee, as well as in their legal explanations or explanations in a committee party are designed to highlight the cooperation or the self-employment nature of these partners. As mentioned earlier, laws that prevent and ban money from being exonerated are required by a spokesman. The committee also decided on 2nd. to set clear guidelines that if such associations are cut off, members will not be able to make a claim to be left behind when the company has made up all its commitments, including the home conditions, but should be treated as property and inspire in the respective areas according to the objectives and purposes of the society and/or the approved charity. All of this, as well as what the committee added, was made up of at 2nd. that the trade with the home is tied to members of the community and very important to keep in mind that this is not a business on the market. This is only the question of what rules apply to the approved society when the Court changes its hands within the society and between members of the community. It was also discussed the possibility of housing partners to participate, e.g. in the building and operating of the cab spray, and the question of what space or position they have to do with it. Similarly, in the past, no effort was made to contribute to the establishment of such associates, although in other forms there is no need for housing. For example, there is a general society, if it becomes reality according to a bill to a localized set of laws that are still so named in that bill, as well as to be discussed by the Committee, as well as to be involved in such activities in cooperation with other members. However, I would like to say that the experience will reveal that some of the housing partners are too narrow to handle, so I leave at least the right to take it back. Of course, it would be unwise to take advantage of fellow workers who are active in this group today and who are reasonably capable of coping with new challenges, building houses, and offering rents. In many ways, the combined effects could be that housing partners were good for such activities, and I don't talk about in smaller markets anymore than in the capital area where more people are available to distribute. That is something time would reveal. It will also matter how certain items will be prepared in these areas depending on events elsewhere in the legislation and in the law if the general apartment markets, said to be stored, will be used for people under certain income limits based on institutions made by state and rural areas or on a structure which would be supported by unions from state to country. In the same case, it is obvious that there is going to be some success in this, and people should be reasonably convinced that there will be something to reduce rent-survival situation, and opportunities to provide housing for affordable markets, it is of utmost importance to provide for those who are present at least new ones, along with the events of new ones who want to skim in this area. It will then be evident how this law and/or the rest of the events involved in this history have come to the fore. Finally, I hope that this new or revised law code for housing partners will be useful to them. In my view, he is more trustworthy in various ways than the one who had ended up in the past, especially, was the purpose of strengthening the law on this structure. I have always had great faith in this, and I have wanted to help with the development of this method of housing and prospering alongside others. It is the nature of the matter, according to a certain gap between property and tenure and tenure. Here, people are sliding their rights with a home payment, but they are in partnership with what in many ways is considered a very good arrangement for them. Consequently, such legislation will do well to allow housing partners to thrive and become stable and protected from tragedy in the coming days, which will probably be some of them if our housing becomes similar. Of course, a compromise is needed here, and there is no secret that it can be difficult to do so. On the one hand, between setting a clear law code that humans believe is solid and secure the success of this housing cohesive structure, there is sufficient flexibility in the law so that housing partners can function as well as are most suitable under different circumstances. Of course, it cannot be overlooked because there is a great difference in circumstances between those working in housing in the capital area and perhaps in other areas of the country where there is still a strong need for housing and/or rented conditions. Actually, the way is chosen is to have the law frame clear but not too rigid so that housing partners can handle it by means of their approval. Of course, it is difficult to say that we have met in exactly the right balance in these topics. I see no reason for saying this more, Madam President. The committee has been working on this as best they can. Of course, she could have taken even more time to review this matter, but it is not necessarily a greeting that time is growing on the trees now for a welfare committee that is far in the way it is known, but we feel that the matter is as well prepared for the final payment as possible on our part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for doing well at work. The welfare committee with this vast issue. Hv. A senator made it clear that the main goal is to strengthen the management ground of such partners with the goal of increasing and strengthening their housing market and diversity on that market. Hv. A senator identified the conflicting viewpoints, one on the other side, the basis of these communities, and the other toward the estate. This is shown efforts and is given the opportunity to be flexible in its approval and action, and there certainly there are different areas to which this partner's position is. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's view of the estate. That's what the 10th says. on page 24. 5 That a housing partner is permitted to set in its established minimum and maximum limit for each mortgage payment, but the price must be only higher than one-third of the market value of the local market, in the stock market. There's a roof on a place to live. The economic crisis is now increasing, and the value of property is increasing. I wondered why 30% was chosen, why a third? Why not higher or lower? Why not more space or even less? What is the argument behind a third?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u53	Madam President. I don't know how to explain why specific men ended up with a third of the upper limit. In some ways it's because, I believe, that the budget has been testing and thinking about offering different options so that you could come in and pay a miscommunication rate which might be from being down to 55.910% of the value of that apartment and up to this, that would be depending on who and still thought it was. The idea is that people enjoy it in the much lower rent they actually have more, in this sense a higher proportion in the house. They are, of course, more risky, because humans, in turn, are responsible for only the commitment of their society in a different way than that of what they have made. This may be the thought of having time to play in different situations. However, it is not part of the intention of changing housing partners into specialenterprises and bringing them into the special policy. Therefore, I think that would be quite enough if not just a well laid, and only too much of it, that the estate price can go up to about one third of the value of the apartment. Then you're a pretty big stockholder. At least I've seen on paper ideas of having several classes and being flexible in this. This may explain some of the reasons why a person wants to have the space within the framework, whether his housing partners decide to make full use of it is another matter. It's in their hands. They then set out in their agreements on this matter and can apply it to their advantage locally.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has encountered the very essence of this matter. Young people are about to leave and wonder if they should buy a property or choose this form to make a commitment with less money. There's this space that's being left behind. I think it's important to draw up a market area from home to home, but by the time it's reached 30% of the market money, it's getting pretty high. If you were to advise young people, and that is the kind of money that would be 30% of the market value, it would be a matter of counseling the young people to buy their first assets and thus to own special possessions. I can see the problem reflected there that the committee has had. Then there is the other view regarding the estate and the subsequent dealings with it, how companies in different situations handle it. I think this will give you some room for the money to work with, and I agree with that. A senator in that respect is well placed. I don't have any numbers over where this rate has been historical, but I guess the housing partners will work with some lower percentages, like a whale. A senator came in. That in itself is no question. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator made this very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u55	Madam President. As for continued meditation on this matter. When you see that, in general, if you're buying an apartment, banks require that they be able to make up 20% of the price they own, it's quite right that, in view of that, 1/3 of the value of an apartment is in the form of a homey rate, as the praxis would have been quite different. I don't know exactly where to shoot, whether or not it's the most common thing in the world that it's been between 10 and 155%, or 51⁄21 percent that people have practically made up in the home-seat, does not mean changing law on housing partnerships to private policy companies. Then I'd think it would be a total loss. The way the budget works in its approval is the key. It also obligates rich responsibilities to have clear policy in that regard, to introduce it to its members. How important it is that all know what they are doing in this regard, so it is clear. Then people become members of a community and have a position to do so within the company, affecting the social policy and development. The result of directly exoning the law or baning the law of unattainable purchase is a protection to prevent it from meeting expectations that it should always be reimbursed at high prices. It's not guaranteed. People share the risks in themselves. What they submit to is their payment, though we should hope that it is usually all there is to receive back the value of it if they have to leave the Society or their circumstances change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u56	Madam President. I'm here to measure for one technical, low-level adjustment proposal. I read it, but it says, ▪ The words ◯sbrr. final dose of 1 mg. 3.3 to 2 mgr. c-arms 25. g. [ Picture Credit Line on page 10] c) ellipse.‡ This change is due to Article 3. The law was removed, as there is a repetition of regulations that are comparable in the law of partnerships that apply to housing communities. This is simple and technical, but important, because it should be true.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u57	Madam President. On a welfare committee, this is where a proposal is made for the interpretation of a diabetes registry and for the screening for diabetes. I'm going to read the proposal as it comes from us, with the permission of a president: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to order groups who are assigned to shape reactions to the growing incidences of diabetes. The group should specifically evaluate the need for an organized diabetes registry in Iceland and a routine screening for diabetes in at risk groups. The assessment will take place based on the advice of the health care provider at the time of screening and if appropriate follow-up. The staff will represent the largest health institutions, such as the Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri, the Health Care Department, the surgeon's office, and the patient - and - professional community. Healthcare Ministers will submit a report on the results of the work group to date on January 1, 2017 Of course, we do not have to question the question, Mrs. President, that we expect to be then made on the basis of the proposed proposal. The reason we make the suggestion is that people who operate in endocrine studies are concerned about the growing incidence of diabetes here as in other countries. When it comes to observing the evolution of the disease, we may have displayed unnecessary complacency. Chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic pulmonary disease, and diabetes are the main health risks in the world and estimated to cause up to seven out of ten deaths. Special concerns include the rapid growth in diabetics. It is thought to be primarily due to an increase in average age, overweight, and immobilization. It is estimated that about 9% of the world's adults are now diabetic. Last October, a well - versed committee met with Dr. Rafn Benediktsson, a head of the endocrine Hospital, the office of the surgeon and health care of the capital area to discuss prevention of life - style diseases, with special emphasis on diabetes. The meeting found that the evidence and analysis of diabetes in Iceland are desperately lacking. An important step in resisting the incidence of the disease is to provide reliable information on the extent and direction of the problem. To establish a central diabetes registry in Iceland and a screening for the disease at risk. In addition, it would have to be ensured that the health care could provide advice at the time of screening and if appropriate follow-up. The committee again met with Dr. Rafn Benediktsson with a surgeon on December 2, to discuss the idea of establishing a diabetes registry and screening for diabetes. At the meeting, the opinion was made that it is previously desirable to investigate the national practicality of measures and to ensure that the quality of the medical system could be used to care for them. This suggests that they will respond to their comments and suggest that the group responds to an increasing incidence of diabetes and particularly evaluate the need for a disease registry and screening for it. Diabetes includes problems with your body's sugar control due to insufficient production or activity of your hormone insulin. The main source of energy for most cells in the body is sugar that comes from the bloodstream. Insulin plays a major role in maintaining the level of sugar in your blood by paying for its uptake into cells as it increases. The disorder of its activity may lead to failure of the cells to absorb enough sugar and increase in blood levels which may result in a variety of disorders, such as cardiovascular disorders, renal failure, limb loss and blindness. Diabetes may thereby significantly impair the quality of life and the survival of patients. The disease is also an animal. It has been estimated that 2.5±15% of the global health costs are due to diabetes. Some indirect social costs, such as due to diabetic disability, are likely even greater. No reliable information on the prevalence of diabetes in Iceland has been summarised. The newest figures are a few years old and are based on operation in an ECG study. Diabetes seems to have been almost unknown in Iceland before 1950. Evidently, since then there has been a rapid increase in the rate of diabetes in this region, evidence indicates that the proportion of diabetic countries is now similar to that in other parts of Europe. The middle age rate was estimated to be about 3% in 1967, but it was estimated to have doubled in 2007. A cardiographic study indicated that 15◯20% of men aged 65 to 84 had diabetes mellitus at that time. There is no reason to believe that the ratio has increased since 2007, and otherwise it can be estimated that it will still increase over the next few decades as the average age increases. The percentage of 65 years and older of total population in Iceland was about 12% in 2010 and exceeds 20% in 2037 and above 25% in 2062, according to Iceland's Habitat. In many parts of the world, there are databases that show the status of certain aspects of the medical service in real times and their effectiveness in relation to international quality. Such information is helpful, among other things, in evaluating the quality of the service and where it needs to be added, in molding the budget and in making decisions on the distribution of funds, and in research. Information can also help the public to pressure the quality of the ministry to expand their ministry. There are various reasons for setting up a central diabetes database in Iceland. There is plenty of technology available. There is a central diabetes registry in the Community Hospital and an improved registry of information about the disease by the health care provider. Much of the information required in the database is already available in an electronic registry. There is already a legal authority available for a diabetes registry in Article 8. law about surgeons and public health. Nine out of ten subjects with pre-diabetic diabetes do not know about this. The symptoms of diabetes are also often not clear, and in 2007 a third of the diabetics in Iceland were unaware of their illness. Thus, in many cases it is likely that by routine screening for diabetes in high - risk groups, the disease and its precursors will be greatly improved. This analysis is based on simple capillary blood samples and blood glucose measurements. It is important to identify the disease and its precursors as early as health progress decreases its incidence and animals, and the consequences of it are much harder to deal with during the later examination. It has been estimated that early diagnosis for diabetes screening may include reduces the risk of diabetes-related cardiovascular disease by tens of percent. For diabetes screening in high-risk groups, it is necessary that the health care professional can manage the lifestyle-related prophylaxis of diabetes and provide advice on concomitant screening and follow-up when appropriate, such as motor lizards. The proposal thus suggests that the assessment of the work group will also take into account the needs of the health care provider in order for them to be able to do that work. As I said before, the whole committee is meeting for this proposal. Besides me, it's part of the Committee. The members of Arnardóttir Arnardóra, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gurnardótttir J. Sigfússon, Unnur Valur Brá, Konráðsdóttir Ríkharðsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Bárálán Konádó. Since we've already called a guest and done the motion myself, I don't see reason to refer her to a committee and believe that she can follow this discussion directly to a future issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u58	A respectable president. I recommend a bill brought by the Economic and Business Committee, agreed on with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. This is a bill to correct customs law, No. 88/2005, and law No. 50/1988, on the value tax, and on due due due due due due due due due due due due due due due due value. Again, this bill is moved in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. Until the fall of 2008, the provision of transfer fees was temporarily increased with provisional arrangements. In fact, the time period of the provisional rule has been extended regularly by some changes. The rules can be found in regulations made for temporary II, III, and V◯XII in customs law, No. 88/2005, and in one way or another, it has been in force since the fall of 2008. It was accompanied by a change in credit laws, No. 50/1988, which is known as the provisional rule, in that those who had a reward period under the provisional rule were authorized to report in a worth tax report, although it had only been paid in part in the state's budget. This requirement is included in the provisional steps for XXVIII by the Treaty on VAT, but its purpose was to ensure that the switch of currency due to provisional XII to customs laws would not affect the individual Member State's internal tax rights. The original reason for the provisional principle was that there was a need for temporary action in terms of the need for plagiarism, infiltration and inflation in late 2008. The rule was considered to include remuneration adjustments for the job life that enabled companies to distribute currency bills and market fees. By extension, which took place by law No. 46/2011 was referred to the government's declarations in connection with the implementation of collective agreements, but in other respects, the extension has been based on the need to act temporarily on company labour due to recovery in Icelandic economy. This time, when the rule has been extended, there have been challenges from stakeholders, their organisations, or labour markets. In view of the better status of the Icelandic economy and the fact that no further extension has been made, its rule was completed at the end of 2015, with the regulations of 122.g. A toll layer. The first pay date for the export of parties who enjoy deadlines in 2016 is March 15, 2016. Enterprises, especially the smaller ones, seem to have not seen the consequences of the temporary rule coming to an end. In many cases, they seem poorly prepared to cope with the need to pay the cost of remuneration at a single time. Re-imbursement of dues and reimbursement of taxes, and water paying is being guided by harmonization. In view of the above, the Commission proposes the adjustment to a temporary change in customs law to be added to temporary XIV, which will allow for the extension of the interim rule in 2016, to allow two deadlines for the implementation period between March and April and 2016, on the 15th day of the next month after the completion of the period and on the 5th day of the second month after the completion of the period. At the same time, a new provisional law is proposed to be added to the terms of merit taxation to those entitled to double days under XIV's temporary regulations on customs law will be permitted to include tax on the merit tax report, even though it has only been partially paid. Despite the mitigation rate in the water, it is as much as possible to assume that the provisional principle will run its course permanently in 2016. A respectable president. I have been through the report, and it may be clear to those who heard that this is a very technical and may not be a readers' bill, but it is considered to have a significant interest in those who are gaming and reducing fluctuations of the use of overgradations and should be less inclined to shop and produce in the country, in order to ensure that consumers should enjoy final levels. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u59	Madam President. I'm just as happy when the current government has extended its arrangements for tax matters that were used in the past government. This is one of the many things we put into practice at one time in our greatest challenge, to meet our companies in this regard, and to allow them to pass out their paydays. We called it a payday adjustment in the interest of the workplace that was then in severe trouble. In this case, however, a person might just as well have wanted to see that such a thing was no longer needed or that he felt that we had come to a good conclusion in all respects that such arrangements could begin to be history. Of course, that does not change, for consideration must be given to how this works. As one speaker noted, not everyone may have been prepared for the release of these payments by releasing the adjustment. It also calls attention to the validated point of view that such changes are better done with good advance and show that everyone knows what they are doing in these areas. But let go of fun, let go of the question. A senator said that there was some kind of universal reexamination, or agreement, in this kind of pay date. It would be peaceful to hear more about where that work is or what it means to be in mind. Of course, it is a well - established view to try to match the best means of expenses and income and then to pay the government's dues on the cost of employment to the State of this kind. Of course, it is not the goal that the State operates in indirect credit work and the normal view that the state will earn its income as much as it can produce. [[The president calls.]] But within reasonable limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u60	A respectable president. In answer to what? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son was hardly a question other than the location of harmony. I don't trust to answer that, but it's important to admit that a large payday in business is a credit card payment at the start of each month. The arrangement presented here aims for a part of this to come after that payment. I'm just gonna answer it right here and now I'm not really aware of where this harmony is. But there are two factors in this situation; the state has natural obligations on the basis of income to provide services, well and well, but care must be taken that factors such as remuneration do not cause significant fluctuations in the country that may end up in relatively expensive bank debt, which, in the end, reflect on consumers. That is the purpose of this whole harmony. I don't mean to comment on where she is, but there may be a number of the approximately 200 changes made in revenues during the last term, that perhaps one of them was preserved. This may be part of it. Don't hit the bell, I've finished speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u61	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the conversion of electrical law, No. 65/2003, with subsequent changes (contracting of less activates with electricity distribution system), from the job board. The changes are as follows: After the 2nd issue, 1st. Section 4. The law has a new case, as follows: Because of an electrical Being with an extract of 100 kW or less, no activation warrant is required. 2.g. It reads: At 17. a Song will be changed by a new paragraph, as follows: Dispense activation by the installed force of 100 kW or less power of low power into the distribution system shall be given a discount of the assessment fee to the owners. The discount should be a minimum of 50% but up to 100% of the amount of the amount required and should be further transferred to a currency file. The discount of the assessment fee is applicable only when the ownership share of each owner is at least 33% in the relevant activation and/or activated resource. An article with the bill says: This bill suggests two changes in electrical law, No. 65/2003, with the potential for less activates to connect to the electrical distribution system. Due to the regulations of the electronic energy layer on activation license, it has been observed repeatedly that it is impossible for the recruiter to connect to the distribution system in the respective region or to obtain an activation permit. In particular, this has been due to the requirement that the Marketing Authorisation Holder is an independent legal and taxpayer. For the smallest of activations, the requirements are burdensome and affect the ability to connect with the distribution system, which is otherwise the rule of the law on activation permits. In 1st. Section 4. The power layer is determined that the release of the Power Agency is needed to build and run power plants. Such permission, however, is not required if the power of an electrical plant is less than 1 MW unless energy is delivered into the diffuser or transport system's distribution systems. In 1st. The bill is suggested that if the installed power is 100 kW or less, it does not require activation licenses and is applicable even if electricity is delivered into the distribution system. It has to be considered that there is reason to simplify the focal point of the inducers by leaving them with the laws of activation, even though they are linked to the distribution system. Indicate, however, only at activations with a power of 100 kW or less. Code two. the bill is of the same nature as it is created because the activaters below 1 MW should have activation licenses if associated with the electrical distribution system. Reboot is only granted to an individual who is an independent legal and tax agent, but makes it necessary for the individual to establish a private legal enterprise for the company, although there are no demands on the community. In many cases, activation is formed by more than one member, which together activates within its own country. Because of the activation of a social security number other than the owners, it must be impossible for the owners to place electricity in their own houses, while the distribution of electrical energy from activation to party with a social security number is considered to be a conflict with the license of diffuser in the affected area. For this reason, it is suggested that we be on the 17th floor. a Electrical law will be added a new paragraph stating that activation through the installed power of 100 kW or less electrical energy into the diffuser system should be given to the public a discount of the assessment fee to its owners at least 50% but up to 100% of the budget. The return of the product should be further transferred to the registry of the concerned diffuser and may, among other things, be considered for the removal of the application site from the specific activation procedure. In this case, it is necessary that at least one third of the activation or resource applied. I hereby suggest that the case be referred to. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u62	A respectable president. I would recommend a bill to correct a change in the house - to - house subsidies law, no. 78/2002, temperatures concentration. The bill is from a professional health committee. In 1st. says: After 1st mg. Section 12. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: Despite 1st. power for heating can be studied up to 16 years of planned subsidies. 1.mg. if the following conditions are met: 1st Its source of heat is in the majority of state, rural society and/or enterprises owned by these partners. 2. It is the responsibility of the partner of a member of a community society that passes by the Ministry of Social Affairs on the debt of a community. 3. This medicinal product has only been authorised to operate post-heat radiation. 6 / 15 " God Is My God, " No. 58/1967, therefore meets 2 mg. 32. their legislation that the production and plans are technically correct, that the heat management will become a national cost-effective enterprise, will satisfy the heat needs of the region, and that loyalty is normal and undisturbable, as the circumstances allow. 4. It is safe to ensure that the strength has only fallen to bring the owner or owner of the heating company minimalness compared to the investment. It is suggested that the law be accepted at once. An article with the bill says: The bill suggests that in special cases it is permitted to trace the source concentrations of new heat sources at up to 16 years of estimated electricity subsidies for house - to - house heating of the relevant heating system. This is an exception from the principle of 12 - year - old guidelines at 1st. Section 12. The law, and it's only meant to meet certain conditions. The first requirement for the medicinal product is public temperature, i.e. in the majority of the states, rural society and/or enterprises which are entirely owned by these parties. Second, the source of heat reserves has financial ability in the force of the local community, which lasts for the Ministry of Governments on the debt of rural society. Third, the febrile medicinal product should be authorised according to its patents in accordance with Article 30,◯ 32. August, No. 58/1967. Private permission is granted if the Minister believes that the European Commission's assessment of heat will become a national cost-effective enterprise, meets the temperature needs of the affected region, and that normal and undisturbed business is ensured, as well as other factors laid down in 2 mg. 32. power layer. If patents are granted, Ministers will verify the CDC prior to operating. Fourth, it should be ensured that the government's budget will move solely to bring minimalness to its owner in relation to the required new investment. A respectable president. So in these matters, we have found, fortunately, a large part of the country's heating system. There are some areas that have been considered cold and/or inhabited and expensive. So far in several parts of the country today that people have found enough water, but because of, for example, population population, distances, and costs of heating, they are overworked. It must be our long - term goal to increase and try to close the ring, if you can put it that way, by inland heat plants. It follows a high quality of life and is to be part of our community plan and has a positive effect on rural development when people choose to live abroad. So the initiative was that the committee was under attack to deliver this case. As a result, the Ministry has made peace, and transnational reconciliation is made up of the committee. We know that some societies are waiting for the hearing to be taken care of. I suggest that the case be referred to. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u63	V.E.G. President. I don't need much time to discuss this bill from a professional committee brought by the head of the Committee. I'm a member of the Committee, so I'm one of the bill's carriers. I'm once again glad that the committee takes it away to deliver the bill. That's what I say under the merits that I've mentioned in a speech chair before, that I feel that the initiative may be more than, as presented here. In other words, not everything has to come from counsellors. I just remind you that the employment company was in the last term with a proposal to extend this period to eight years, if I remember correctly, but the committee made a change and went up to 12 years. I liked it very much, so I rejoiced very much, and I was one of its merchants. This is extending it to 16 years, and I don't hesitate to argue that it may cause us to go to more thermal projects in areas we've come here to think that it was cold, which makes it necessary for us to go to the heating system that is less efficient than any available. This will be an important strength, and it won't matter if I name Kjalarnes, Cape, or any other place. An example of Skagga Beach and the heating system, which followed a change in the law during the last term and is going on if I know the right thing to do. That is why this need not be spoken of. All of this is being done by a professional committee, and I'm sure it's all for the benefit of all of this, and that we may hopefully be able to increase temperatures. The technology of drilling has advanced. In contrast with what has been done in several areas that we thought cold, humans have more knowledge and ability to find blood vessels. Thus, Bortechnology has moved forward, and it is the government's granting this strength, which is said to extend the period from 12 years to 16 years. This is the best thing to do, and hopefully they'll get a quick walk in the Council, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u64	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synonym proposal on behalf of the Western Council for Iceland. It is simple and implies that the Allied Council agree to challenge the government to support the Western Council's application to the audience of the Arctic Council. The proposal was adopted at a meeting of the Western Council in Grindavík, January 2016. We applied for an audition at the Arctic Council in August 2014. This takes time. In April 2015, the Council's conference of Brothers took our application to the decision to postpone any application for an audience until the spring of 2017 meeting with the Council. So we are renewing our application now and fixing it up, sending it back to us in May. It is important that our application succeeds in receiving support from the three heads of state and the governments of the three countries. That is why the proposal is presented. But why is it important that the Western Council do not have an audience at the Arctic Council? We think it's extremely important. In recent years, we have given special attention to the northern languages. Our application for auditioning is in the process. We want national representatives of the three countries to have a better chance of affecting the elements involved in the Arctic Council. It is our role that elected agents make sure that local rights and interests are held in high esteem in the Northern Council. That is why we believe and stress that elected representatives of the North are involved in what the Arctic Council is doing. We have called attention to these views, and we have tried to use increased discussions about democracy in the northern regions in recent years, and we have actively participated in the Arctic Circle conferences and, as well as in January's theme conferences, in Grindík, with experts from all over the north. We believe that the Western Council can contribute significantly to the Commission and North Pole work force on these issues, on the rights of the local population and on sustainable development in particular. So we want the proposal to get a walk here, and I hope she's getting good publicity on the General Department of State.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-14-98.u65	Madam President. I take my heart to the motion as a moment. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir Consecretsdóttir moved. I think it's very important that the Western Council be brought into the Arctic Council, where it's fresh. In recent years, the Western government has been at the head of the storm. A senator is very subtle about the affairs of the north. As it has been taken. I agree with her completely that the emphasis that the Western Council has so laid and the market for the future is just right and represents a considerable amount of Iceland's importance within the seminary. The Arctic Council was a long - term, hard - earned institution, did not take it seriously, and it still tries large powers indirectly to undermine it by making decisions on the informal scene, the scene of the so - called five treaties. Iceland's policy has always been to mow and enhance its impact through the Arctic Council. Among other things, we have seen to it in recent years, and we have taken the initiative to see that there have been important negotiations within the council. It is unlikely to remember that the two most important treats the Council of North Pole has been completed in Iceland. It was not the least in Iceland's territory that led to the result of this negotiation. Hv. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Consley's wife's Konráðsdóttir strongly reasoned that it was perfectly normal for elected representatives of the Council of Nations in the area that falls under the Western Council to try to establish themselves as a member of the council's work. It's very well. In recent years, the Governing Body has taken on increased assignments. There is more harmony than there was before that it should be the most important site of cooperation in the Arctic. In particular, it is worth stressing that, at the same time as there have been great wolves among one State, Russia, and other Western countries, the cooperation in the north has not been greatly damaged. These include the work and declarations of Icelandic rulers, including the president of Iceland, and it is of interest in the way Iceland has put emphasis other than, for example, Canadians, who in their time lost a two - sided cooperation between Canada and Russia on Arctic matter. The United States of America, who took the lead after the Canadians, did not follow that step closely. In the next few years, while the situation is sensitive between Russia and the rest of the world, I believe the Council of North Pole has an ideal setting for formal discussions about issues related to the north, but we also know that it is very important to have informal communication, especially for countries such as Iceland that don't have many opportunities to sit directly at the same level as the principal leaders of these countries, in order to get to other things, to promote and strengthen communication. This is important to us. The views of the Western Council that the Arctic Council would clearly strengthen Iceland's language, strengthen Iceland's World Council's position as an institution, to have a straight session in the field where the greatest decision on northern issues is at least shaped, and hopefully in the future. If we then look at the other two nations that this includes, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, we know that, in particular, another nation, Greenland, has complained that there is not enough and not the right access to the Arctic Council. For example, we recall when the Greenlands asked for an answer to the Council's meeting, rather than a representative of Dana. It was not the word. There was great disappointment among the Greenlandites. They have sometimes told them that since Denmark is involved in the council because Greenland belongs to the kingdom, Greenland should have more power than they have today. This is one of the ways to expand the Greenlandic sector and, of course, movers in the area of policy development. We should celebrate. It is important for us Icelanders to strengthen the cooperation of these three nations, and as I have mentioned in my earlier talk, the cooperation of the three Parliaments of the Western Council has been greatly enhanced. I think this forward - looking proposal is a logical continuation of that job. That's why I think of it as now that we've got a new one and we've got the best sink. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is this ideal case for her to promote the will that I hope will show at the vote next week that it is very firm at the National Council for its actions. I believe this case, which the government of Iceland can have a considerable impact by bringing on it a great deal. Perhaps it is crucial that some independent and sovereign countries such as Iceland are able to speak for this idea of the Arctic states. The proposal is timely because it is highly dependent on Iceland's needs and interests.
