ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u1	V.E.G. President. You cannot help but take this opportunity and participate in the work here at the fourth time this week. In this saying I have, as many others have. Senators, often talking about growth, and I'm gonna take this opportunity and do it. We would like to discuss these issues with regard to the interest decisions made by the National Bank of Iceland's Money Policy Committee. I think it may be said that there is a general view that interest levels are too high. It has been stable for a long time, and inflation has long been a well within the Red Sea Bank's price targets, but now it was followed by a decrease in the number of growths at the last decision and many believed that the money policy committee was beginning a reduction process. But last time, two days ago, the money policy committee kept growth unchanged in 5.25%. This is because the situation in the economy since August is not affected, so operating growth is maintained. It is remarkable if the reaction is not affected by loss of control growth. Therefore, and perhaps because the reaction is not increasing, it should be safe to continue this reduction process, and at the same time it is possible to indicate that the growth rate is actually too high and that there is real growth in these situations. Some would like to link this decision to a miscalculation in the Haguen calculations, but of course, it should not change expectations and look, which, of course, matter most in determining where the rest will be. There is a big step ahead in post-election emissions and financial work. There, a great effort will be made to return the current fourth year's government funds in a row. It will be crucial for financial policy to support money policy, to maintain filancy, and to defend prices. Only in this way can the growth loss process be continued, thus reducing the spending of homes and businesses. [[The president calls.]] It'd be a real dresser.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u2	Mr. President. The media have reported that 11 children without escorts wait for their releases in this country. According to a officials of the Red Cross, some of them feel so bad that they talk about not wanting to live anymore, the only thing they dream about is having normal lives and going to school. That's all the commission. For some incomprehensible reason, we cannot indulge in them. They think no one wants them, and I'm not surprised. As a member of Iceland and a member of the council, I am ashamed that this is the way it has been treated by children who come to the country to take refuge in us. It is also noted that these children live in an unacceptable situation among older people, in which safety is not guaranteed. Children's health authorities in Reykjavík are rightly responsible for all the non - Witness youths who apply for asylum in Reykjavík, but they do not do so despite repeated requests there. Mr. President. How does this pact harmonize with the United Nations, which is not only a very important human rights contract but also a law in this country? The Children's Covenants and the Law No. 19/2013 says, with the permission of a president: ▪ In each Member State, appropriate measures should be taken to ensure that a child who seeks a legal position as a fugitive, or who is considered to be a fugitive according to the relevant rules and procedures of national rights or landscapes, receives whether it is accompanied by parents or others, or not, appropriate protection and humane assistance to exploit the relevant rights and rights laid out in the Convention of these and other international legislations on human rights or human kindnesss to which they are concerned. Appropriate protection and humane assistance - are we doing so with these children whom we have sought for protection and help, asking only to live normal lives like other children of this land? If we can't extend human kindness, we don't have at least one thing to do. Doing the law? The sad fact is that we are failing the children who are looking here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u3	Highest. President. I'd like to start by saying it's important that Congress negotiations be concluded. This is important in the form of the council and in the form of what it looks like. Congress officials make their way into the districts and have a conversation with the nation. However, we must look at the remaining tasks and the importance of their completion. This includes: mention a social security bill with changes that include increasing minimum improvements according to minimum wage. Besides, I'm going to have to mention the matter of a change in index figure. This is a big interest in many of the country's homes. But there was something else I wanted to discuss today. I'd like to call attention to the law on housing, the laws that were approved here at our assembly, and be accepted on January 1. A major part of their law is that local communities will now be obliged to provide housing for their parents or guardians who have children between 15 and 6317 years of age, children who have to go to higher school and live in school parks or dormitories. This support should be independent of the income and property of parents or guardians and may be up to 75% of the rent cost. This is a change made in the case during conquistancy. Great support was given to this change within the welfare committee. Committee members felt that it was important to meet the high cost of homes that need to send their children to advanced studies away from home. This right of parents and guardians has not been a major problem in the discussion, so it is best to use the opportunity here to draw attention to these laws. Finally, I want to say this: I want to thank everyone. Parliamentaries for the past few years of cooperation. It's been a valuable time. The 'em. Congress officials who have decided to turn to other jobs wish for success. The rest of us who want to continue, at the same time, wish we were successful and that we had a financial battle.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u4	Mr. President. I'd like to direct an inquiry to the president. Our members of the Parliament are surrounded by a wide range of fun and variety, and we go abroad, and we do things in a very unique way. But some, knowingly, have not performed their affairs for weeks and months. As a result, I have been wondering how to intervene without merely being subject to the senator himself or to a body of Congress, that it must be managed by a change in Congress law. Not being at work can be considered acceptable, i.e. not doing any political work here or participating in committee work for weeks and months, and getting paid by public tax. So I wondered if there were ten senators who would act this way. What's to be done? Is that something we can react to? I think the President and the Presidency have to take this to heart. It can't be natural for members of Congress not to be here to take part in their releases. It is one of our duties, to influence matters in committees, and then to complete them at the council. But when the senators haven't seen a reason for being here for weeks and months, I'm going to redirect it to the president and ask if they think there's something that needs to be handled in the Senate or in what way you can handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u5	A respectable president. I would like to begin by saying the last speaker, why. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. That's how it works, for example. Be at the European Parliament that a part of the pay is withdrawn if people do not show up in votes or in their required activities at the council. Of course, it is a serious matter if we lose certain members of our congregation without anyone being replaced. We're supposed to be working together, right? What I would like to discuss, however, is an unpleasant incident that took place on Facebook and in connection with a minister's assistant. A visitor to the secretary's office called a guest who had been at a committee meeting. The General and Education Committee to ask what would have been requested there. He then claimed that I had been wrong about the findings of the committee meeting. Not only that, but this assistant said that he was actually delivering messages from these members of the committee. Now I have to ask a respectable president if such practices are acceptable, if they are not a very reprehensible practice, that visitors are at risk of being interrogated by the executives afterwards. Do we not need to have a firm trust? It's not a good idea to have an invitation between the members of the committee and... [[Open a meeting?]] Then the meeting can just be open, there's nothing wrong with that. But that the minister's assistant is delivering an invitation and telling me what happened at the meeting I don't think is quite appropriate. [[The president calls.]] I'm just gonna have to say it, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u6	V.E.G. President. So far in Iceland at this time, most of the banking system is owned by the state. Even so, the banks, the business banks, do not take their social roles very seriously. They may, however, differ from one of them in handing over state ownership, but I would like to talk about one business bank, which is only to a small extent owned by the State today, but it could possibly become all part of it soon. That's where I'm talking about Arion Bank. As I told you before, it seems that these fine banks did not even trust to keep their ATM activity in many parts of the country. The stone, however, was now removed when Adonion Bank was reduced to about 46 people in the week and about 19 of them in the country. It may be noted, for example, that Siglusar, a private president's birth town, is out of seven jobs, seven jobs that were promised to be there after the same bank took over the local savings. In another small branch office, which is the bank's outpost here not far from Reykjavík, the set value went from three to 100% employees to two 75% employees. How can we be sure that such a bank service can be held? At the same time as this, this bank announces not to make any fees to the bank's managers. And in fact, this bank may be controlled by a person who has earned the highest and most government fines due to competitive crime in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I think this bank on this subject, Anion Bank, needs to take its place only for analysis and focus on the operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u7	Mr. President. In these words, the United States Congress is about to begin in the East, on Seyward. There we are assigned to be members of the district, where we are assigned to serve. After a while, my schedule is waiting for me to pack up a series of events related to the elections in the north and east for the entire next week. Of course, the election is already under way, as we see in the absence of many ministers and many government officials who have ceased to do their work here at the council and are having a campaign. There is a difference between the possibility that those who are running the campaign in and around Reykjavík can, of course, do so together with the Senate work, shoot at a meeting if it takes ten minutes or half an hour to leave the House. But it's not possible for us senators who are running in the settlements and particularly not in the North East, since there is nothing but a flight and/or an hour's driving to attend events there. This situation isn't working, Mr. President. I challenge the President of the Generals, and I know that I don't need the one now seated on a chair who knows this situation, not to let it pass.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u8	You have to use this weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u9	Don't let it go - and stop yapping around forever, Jón Gunnarsson's son. I hate having you in this room, to be honest with you, you have to go to a ritual course if you're going to stay at the council. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's just the way it is, Mr. President. I'm not embarrassed about this, I think I've been working through the years to be a rather successful member of the Parliament, and I can fully submit evidence of it, both in the presence of meetings and the contribution of the cases, and so on. Of course, I am not entertained when I am forced either to neglect my affairs or to ignore events in the campaign that has already begun. The Congress must now complete in the next 24 hours, and the president of the Generals will take the task of making the judges of the administrations aware that this will no longer work. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u10	President. I can testify that one of the most accomplished members of the council throughout history is the senator who spoke before me, hm. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, so once we get to this place in the Senate, it's getting a lot bigger than the members of the council who are in large national districts, we really need to start thinking about our own course. I would like to give a little consideration to the fact that during the last days of the council, some mysterious miracle seems to take place among the senators and the administrators, or a minister of the government and the minority, because then suddenly there seems to be a possibility of solving matters of great reconciliation, difficult issues, finding solutions that may have taken quite a long time to find a way. Suddenly, it is as if Móse came and found a way for all the senators to walk through the great gap that is often between smaller parts and more parts, which we Pirata's members have a lot to talk about. I challenge the members of Congress, prospective members of the New Parliament after this, to find a way of truly altering the kind of practice we have witnessed here recently and find ways to settle the interpolitic agreement. If you can't find them, then instead of trying to force matters through much strife, reconciliation will lead to reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u11	A respectable president. During these days, a new warship building contract is being arranged at a Norwegian shipyard. I hope that this will be a step forward for the Western nature of transportation, although I have now made some comments on that subject. But today, October 7, six days have passed since the last voyage to the Landing Islands, and there is no look to be sailed there until first of all on Sunday or at the beginning of next week. At the docks, there has been a hundred and forty - eight feet [4How8 m], and a new ship that is being built has been able to sail to about 30 feet [3 m] high. During the week, new ships would have added transportation to Western islands only less. We do well to consider that this is the case. A respectable president. There are situations at the docks that are the problem, and there are situations in the docks that need to be investigated. It is very important that as soon as the next budget is passed on to research in the Landing Islands to make it possible for the whole year to be opened. Experienced sailors and ship managers say that parks need to be taken to a depth of 15 to 20 feet [15 to 20 m] to sail there throughout the year. It is important that when a new ferry arrives around the Western Islands in the middle of 2018, there is research and what you can do to secure transportation at the Western Islands all year. That's the point of a new ferry. It's going to be more pitting than the current Marine and will, of course, add some days, but it won't be able to sail to sea level more than 3 meters. Such high altitudes are quite frequent, and today, when the ordinary autumn plain is crossing them, they are days for a hundred and sixty - eight feet [4,8 m] high. We need to put the rescue aside that the Westerners will be able to maintain good transport throughout the year on the land island.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u12	A respectable president. I've said that many times before, and I say again that the Council is an amazingly transparent institution. The problem for the general citizen to realize what is going on here may largely involve that there is not a general knowledge of how the Council works so that people don't know what to look for, what to look up, etc. The second is the notorious lack of organization that I understand as historical reasons for getting in the way of the government. I don't know why it's so disorganized and weird these days. One of the extremely few non-constructions at the General Assembly is called debating, meeting especially with guests. Senators can always talk to one another, they'll talk on the phone and meet at a tunnel, etc. and there's nothing out on that set. It's just a normal part of the Senate. However, the committees often include guests whose questions are asked and who shed light on the matter. The discussion that takes place at committee meetings would be very useful to the citizen who wants to observe the General and his activities. A good example is a recent bill that was presented for authorship law, about copying for private use, a bill where a question was raised in a-team 1st paragraph. which was not fully identified until a committee meeting of exactly what was to be translated. It was found that even the consequences of that law were not clear. In handling this matter, I remembered how important it might be for the public to have access to the conversations that occur at committee meetings. This is not a way to eradicate corruption because corruption is not taking place at the General Assembly meetings, but it can help the citizens understand the situation, understand its nature, and take more active part in conversation with members of Congress if the committees were open. Therefore, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals usually be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u13	A respectable president. During these last days of the council, there has been a state of confusion. For example, a professional driving committee used a bill to legalise and run electrical lines, i.e. Change of position there. The objective was to eliminate a particular process that is present, the lawsuits of the environmental and resource organizations, and set specifications designed for this precise implementation. Now it's been discussed on a professional committee and why. The Environment and Transport Committee has received access to this discussion and has had several meetings on that subject. We had made many comments immediately to the fact that this was a bad law, primarily because there was a legal issue in the public legislation, environmental protection and nature law, legislation on the NTSB, Afract, etc. Those who have been advocates of the matter have felt that they had calmed down and that the bill is good and that it is well prepared. Now we've received a memo from the Ministry of Industrial Affairs on Article 3. The law says that according to the bill, as it came from the Minister, the bill will affect other tasks than those linked to the work structure of the Backka, i.e. that the bill can include certain factors related to the planned HIM activation as well as likely to have an impact on the implementation of Sandskeiðline 1 intended for the entry of the current line on the basis of agreement with Hafnarfjörður farm. This is, in fact, far more extensive laws than those spoken of by man himself. [[The president calls.]] I feel that this is a sign of the inadequacy of these legislations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u14	A respectable president. There's obviously something nervous going on because when I pointed a trigger. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's claim to make good use of the weekend in a campaign, he reacted harshly and invited me to attend a course of obedience. There is no question about going to an obedient course by the dog. Senator, but I think I'll pass. No doubt he could teach better than anyone else in double - color courses. Reports are being received regularly because there are substantial problems with the private media in Iceland. It is called after government and government procedures. The Minister of Education has proposed a synonym to this case to correct a discrepancy in the management environment of these enterprises. It's headed for trouble. The estimate appears to be mainly twofold, one on the one hand, the position of ROV in a commercial market, and the other is foreign community media, Facebook, Netflix, Google, and what is called all of this, which are taking in an ever larger part of the cake on a commercial market. How should we react? The fastest way, as well as the simplest way to balance the competitiveness of the national media toward the foreign countries, it seems to be to eliminate the value tax from all media, whether by means of photons, regular printing media, every kind of media on the Internet. However, the prohibition on alcohol advertisements, e.g. beer advertisements, such as Facebook, are the perfect time errors in this environment. This ban, a respectable president, is to be canceled to ensure the competitiveness of the media. The media play an important role in the development of the Icelandic language, and in many countries around us, they are strengthened by the State. I'm not recommending such a route, but I believe for the serious financial situation of the Icelandic media that there is a temporary way to back up private media companies. I mean, over the entire line, a single replacement procedure related to the decomposition of the valuable tax. We've taken a similar approach on reimbursement of films. We are now allowing the case for reimbursement of the recording of music that is of the same hurt. [[The president calls.]] I think a body of Congress should be united to finish it now to strengthen the Icelandic press and thereby to finish the whole business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u15	A respectable president. I would like to discuss a school meeting, which is an incredibly important education conducted here at the General Assembly on the functioning of the legislature. When we first started to visit a school meeting, we were assigned to the Parliament. I didn't know that this existed, and my high school kids didn't get to go to school, because they live in the country. I called for information about which schools were visiting a School Hall, and there are more and less all elementary schools in the capital area and around here. For example, the first information I received revealed that not one basic school in the East had been able to do so. I called for more information for the last winter and saw them that there are some schools in the country, but their availability is, of course, very little. I understand that a comparable education is in Norway, where Congress will simply strengthen schools to visit the school council. I can also ask, Why shouldn't a comparable education be in Akureyri for the north country? I know that the council is not on the move to strengthen a lot of trips to students from abroad, but it might also be possible to invite the first year of high school students, often to the capital of some form of travel; at least to arrange this so that all children from all over the country will receive this vital instruction. And if there is no money to strengthen them, I would suggest that the general body members were to drive on rental cars instead of paying expensive money. There I think the General could save a considerable amount of money that could be made more important, including To present to all elementary schoolchildren of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson said that we should have a meeting open, as I have now done. I have to admit that when I listen to this discussion, I find it a little special to hear the men who ruled here all in 2009, and then to stop the council one week before the election day, having us discuss election laws and changes in constitution, go a lot and demand that everyone go home. And if any. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson dares say one word in the hall when he is immediately being presented at a manners class. I'm not gonna have any more words about this, but it's gonna draw attention. A respectable president. Now the campaign struggle has begun a while ago. I think there's a little bit of self-sustaining to it. Then I'm referring to our financial sustainability. We must not forget our past experiences. The reason we worked very quickly out of the financial breakdown was that we had paid off the debt of state funds. If not, we would have found it very difficult to cope. We have not yet come to that place. We can get to that place if we agree not to spend money ahead, to take advantage of the money available to pay off debt. When this government took over, 80 billion went into interest, which was then twice the cost of the Land Hospital. Today, this has dropped by some tens of billions, but it is still high. If an optimistic plan is to be achieved, and we sell out of the stability, then we are talking about within a few years the interest rate will still be between 30 and 40 billion. That's a lot more money than we put in the University of Iceland. We can debate things, but if we want stability, if we want to see a lower interest level, we'll do it by maintaining and sharing in government affairs and paying off debts and other things. [[The president calls.]] This, however, is essential. I'm hoping we'll get along with that, more dignified President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u17	A respectable president. Now that the end of Congress is near, it is inevitable to discuss the social security bill available at the council, and it came from the government in a way that it is merely about providing for the elderly system changes and reforms. But the bill has an unsettled poultry garden. I want to use this opportunity and challenge the board to make changes. A general assembly cannot leave the poorest people in the country at the end of an elected period in which virtually all groups in the country have been blessed. The poorest people in the land are indeed the poor - and most needed - in terms of choice. How contrary it is if just that group is to be left behind because of a system change issue! It is reasonable and reasonable that the poor will have the same quality as the elderly, especially better off a group or more wealthy than the elderly, although there is certainly good reason for improving their interests after what is going on, and especially to ensure that they and the desperate will have the same elevations as the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u18	A respectable president. Often this is the case with a long discussion of big issues, such as a road program that has not been prepared for the rest of this ideal period, good things happen along the way. In the smaller sections, we have proposed a committee opinion in which we declare support for the adjustment proposals of the greater part, but proposed improvements in a special Senate document, i.e. additional adjustment proposals we proposed to be approved. After talking with the representatives of the major part and the representatives of the Commission, we have met at the Committee to include some of our proposed changes in the smaller parts we have given very good evidence. So, at a vote, we'll retract our previous proposal package and now I'd like to recommend a new proposal that comes from the whole committee. The one that stands here, and is the guide to these changes, and why. Councilmen Róbert Marshall, Svandís the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, Ásta Guðrún, daughter of Helgadóttir, Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Arnas, Elín Hirst, and Haraldur Einarsson Einar, make this proposal together. Its focus is that instead of the suggestion we have made, 1.5 billion enter into the maintenance of the 1 billion that had previously been proposed, we propose that this number be 1 billion in 2017 and another billion in 2018. This is acceptable because, as previously stated in my case, the road structure has claimed that it needs 8-639 billion to maintain the investment that has already been properly attacked. The next step, of course, is to be at a new assembly. It should go further and answer the call of the Roadmaker to 11 billion annually so that it can make the roads stand up and make the roads stronger for the future, improve security, etc. It is completely acceptable, and we are immensely happy that this decision has been made because we are at least defending a road that has been too little for too long for maintenance, so they have been going down. It also benefits the whole country, which means that country will be under attack. First of all, we recommend that we engage in research and prototype soils between Siglusfjords and Rivers. That's 5 billion. K. In 2017 and 5,000,000. K. in 2018. It is not a decision to start the race but to do some preliminary research. Secondly, there will be improvements in Snæfells Ways and other locations around the Forest Coast and for 125 million. K. in 2017 and another 125 in 2018. There's also been a lot of discussion about the road that is going to the Candret, which is totally to the shame of how they've been let down. Therefore, it has been agreed to go to 2018 at 120 million. K. They work hard to get them into a decent way, and he is under great pressure. Then there is one more suggestion, i.e. that in 2018 there will be preparation and invitations due to Axes Road in the east. These are the proposals of the Committee in addition to the changes made by the majority of the committee and the agreement to settle this council. For that, I am terribly grateful. Transport is of utmost importance to us, and every dollar that now enters transport is important because it is an investment in the future, an investment in basic construction roads, such as tourism. It is an investment in urban development that makes our society stronger. The stronger the infrastructure is, the stronger the community is. I believe this agreement to make sure that this time a significant injection will be given.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the review of the situation, as it has become in the final centenarian discussion of the transport program. I would especially like to thank the transport committee as it does for the discussion, as well as for the general committee agree to make some of the changes in their parts. I hope there's evidence that we're at least to complete this group with the dignity that we are able to gain because we cannot ignore the fact that, as it were, we will be putting up with this program, which, as it were, is more and less over the years, which may be symbolic of the political and the heritage of this government. Here we are, in effect, adding 1 billion per year to the maintenance, thereby meeting the road model indications and what has been observed there. We each made 1.5 billion each year, and the road manager talked about 11 each year, but we are here in 9. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does this amount count nationally? This is an open team, the one who falls, not on a certain area, but on a general point of view. Will the public see a change on the basis of this change?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u20	A respectable president. Yes, the public will see much, especially if we look at this 9 billion in 2017, next year, and another 9 billion in 2018. Then I hope that the next council will go further and bring it up to 11 billion, which is what needs to be added to the 9 billion so that the roads can be updated, the crevices, etc. So we'll see an enormous amount of difference. If we put this into context, there are 18 billion in two years to the total amount of transport has been set up in recent years. That's a lot of money, so it's a very smart step. If we do not maintain it, we will create a problem for the future, which means that we need to take on a much more financial project because the roads are going to get damaged, and many of them have started doing so. So it will be relevant for the capital area and for many roads around the country. Then there's something else that we're taking into the adjustments, such as the ostracism. A senator knows, e.g. a road, such as the Doomstre, a road to travel. What we need, and we nose our minor aluminium, e.g. Plans for developing tourist roads, which are part of developing some plans for the better distribution of tourists through the country, etc. projections for transport services and development and planning for tourism development are to be better combined. The same is true of bicyclists and funerals. I hope we will now see new times in the discussions about transportation, where we will try to look further into the future. [[The president calls.]] Today, we are working with a much shortsighted attitude, and we are working from years of shortsightedness in the road that has taken place during this ideal period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u21	A respectable president. Today and these weeks, there are many major developments in Icelandic politics. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir is here today at her last conference, and she has no special farewell talks. Rather, she is talking about the subjects, which I find to be the characteristics of her meeting attendance, which has been particularly enjoyable to accompany her. We were partners in an amazingly remarkable government where one of us was in control of industrial affairs and the rest of the environment. We used to massage a little bit at first, but then we all became allies and have been since, both in the environment and in the environmental protection issues of a transport committee, but also repeatedly in the feasibility of women. I like to tell you that a woman who is considerably younger than me, over ten years younger, is a political example to me because she's a tough person, but she's not afraid of fighting, but she's also a person of releases and media work, which is important for all of us to be guided. It is a special privilege for me to have accompanied her in her political life on this storyline. She's the most experienced senator we're going to say goodbye to these elections, and she's been a huge, powerful fighter for a better society. Thank you, Katrín Júlíusdóttir. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u22	A respectable president. I don't know what to say after such beautiful words but I'd like to thank you all for your particular cooperation. I've worked with a lot of people. This is my fourth term. I'm 41 years old and I'm sitting on a list of honors that I didn't see would ever happen. It has been an enormously satisfying and good time, and this institution here is extremely important. I feel like we're allowed to talk more often about how important it is. Although people in our community may at times feel that it is long for us to reach a decision and not work quite quickly and not respond quickly enough, that is because we need to be careful. This is a seminar on the best available conclusions in matters. We have seen that when we run away, we make mistakes. I hope and know that respect for the Generals will grow when people see the importance here and the human beings that have been here. I've come up with a lot of big issues at the council. I would most likely like my part in stopping the privateisation of groundwater, as well as sharing in the implementation of Community legislation prohibiting the implementation of public possession of energy resources, so public citizens are now forbidden to sell their resources themselves. It made a difference to me. I also enjoyed coming to the prolongation of maternity vacations in my day. I can mention a lot of cases, including... The nature protection that we had with Svandís Svavarsdóttir and Róbert Marshall worked together on the Environment and Transport Committee. It was an amazing experience and the privilege of working with people like you who have so much knowledge of these matters was valuable to me. So I'd like to say that during this season, I've got a passion for a group of languages that I never thought I'd get an passion for, which is transport. Transport is the basis for the quality of life of the country, the whole of urban development and community development in the country. If they are not long - term, they will have a negative effect on all of this. A respectable president. I'm not gonna take any more time. I didn't expect to have such a beautiful greeting here, and I'd like to say, "Ditto, darling Svandís, thank you for your cooperation, and thank you for everything. I will attend the UN General Assembly on Sunday, so this is my final day at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u23	The president agrees with congratulations and thanks for what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u24	Mr. President. Every word that came up in the language of the day can be summed up. paritaprevir Savavardóttir Svavarsdóttir's daughter earlier. Thank you, too. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir' daughter very much for her cooperation. It is a pleasure to have the changes we have made in the smaller part of the environment and transport committees making up here in driftways. The decision was reached with the majority of the Committee that the Commission together provided a great improvement. We have presented a very thorough and significant argument in our talks at the council that there is a need for more money to be maintained and happy to have done so. What I would like to do to make sure that the main subject of my talk this time in the discussion of the transport program is something that I have not been able to do well enough in transport discussions and that there are public transportation, how they are built up in the country, and how they appear to people who want to take advantage of public transportation, to appear from foreign guests who come here, and to take advantage of public transportation. To check these issues, I studied online how you could use public transportation to leave Leifs station to Reykjavík, even from Leifs Station to the international airport in Reykjavík. It's kind of amazing how we've handled them here on the country. This is something I do myself every time I go abroad, see how it's best to travel from international airport to downtown, so you do it in a practical way, and if you can't make it through public transportation. It is my purpose to try to make the best of them. It's environmental and it's practical to do so, and I view it as my duty to use public transportation, especially in the light of what is happening in the world. I guess this is what they do when they get to Iceland, it's not really a working road. I was looking at this before I came to the discussion inside Lonly Planet's chat web, which is a very popular travel site, where people wonder about it and have already seen that route No. 55 at Bus left Leifs Station for Reykjavík. True, it is expensive, but it does not cost as much as the Cheflavíf flight bus as it does on all its side of the tourist currents, both Icelanders traveling and foreign guests, is on the inside. If you look at this at Leifs Station and find out how to take a bus to Reykjavík, it is not easy to do so. There's no sign of a chimney when you land at Leifs Station. There's no proper sign, maybe there's some signs, but I didn't see any last time I was there how it's done best. If you're going to look for information on this online, you have to first know that you have to enter the bus stop at the bus stop, so you have to have Icelandic skills, so you have to try to look into it in English, all of you point into taking either sex trips or Express, which are the only buses that drive this way, or taking a cab. Then, when a person looks at the price of this bus option, two people who are going to take a five - or six - day trip to the city of Reykjavík to take their car and keep it and pay for what belongs to Cheflavík in the parking lot rather than taking advantage of public transportation. It's totally ridiculous that we should act in a way that pays for people to be on a private car like this. It is quite surprising that during 2016, at a public transportation such as Istavia has been completed in a safe way so that everyone can safely use public transportation, so that they do not have to break 4,6,500 feet [400,5500 m] to the toddler in search of a carpet that is somewhere in their long-term car spots in Chefavík, that they cannot just go off the bus base into a bus or a bus with access to everyone. It's amazing. It's so inhibitory. It's not easy for an honest person, but when it comes to going to senior citizens, for disabled people, for people in some way who have trouble going about, I'm not talking about at the weather that can happen, it's totally unacceptable. I realize this is just a little bit of the subject we're discussing here. But it is quite strange that a company with Istavia should think of this service as having to spell it into them, that it must directly tell them to make arrangements so that our public transportation can be used between the airport and Reykjavík, so that we are not too close to being organized on our domestic flight that we have our inner airport far away from the international airport. Not being accessible between the airport and the national airport, and advertised also says everything that needs to be said about the disorganization of the group. Happily, in recent years we have taken positive steps in that direction, i.e. Public transportation has become more accessible. What is also pleasant is that the general public has actually led them to evolution. He has chosen this option. You can see on the bus system in the capital that there has been a great improvement, a great change in how ready people in general are to make use of public communities. I myself often use bus while traveling through the capital area. Of course, I also use bicycles and private cars, but when you begin to work on bicycles and public transportation in increasing numbers, you realize that, which you may not have faced before when you had children in high school and in elementary schools in the capital area, you need at least one. No more than one car. People often feel the same way about kids at school, in elementary schools, and where there are two family precoirs that having two cars is absolutely necessary. Of course, we are to arrange our structure so that we make it possible for people to have only one car, both practical for families, to be very positive, and to bring unequivocal benefits to the environment and to climate. In this way we do our part, and most important, we reduce the maintenance cost of the road system by offering the public the opportunity to make more use of a variety of means of transportation than just the private car to get around. These are things I would like to have mentioned in a discussion about transportation. I am now in speech number two in this discussion. There are a few things I can think of to come to a later stage in the discussion, and I have the right to make use of the ability to give more five - minute talks on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u25	V.E.G. President. Before everything happens here, I'd like to use this opportunity to say goodbye and thank the members of the council and the wonderful and good staff of the Generals for my cooperation and benefit. I was first elected to the Council of the Council on May 8, 1999, for the old northern District of the West, but then for the great, vast, Middle Eastern District. Thus, for over 17 years at the General Assembly, I have been at a number of 22 legislatures. On June 15, 1999, I moved to the General Assembly. 11.18, and discussed, yes, what other than expected ideal change, urban and transport. Unless what? Someone may say. That's the highest. The new senator, Davíð Oddsson's son, responded to the newcomer, who by then had recently stopped shaking at his bones after a 20 - minute talk that was based on notes and memory, where some in the rosary had fallen; I was called before I had expected it; and I forgot the written virgin address in the town. But in my second answer, I even said... at the highest. current prime minister, with permission of the president: I would like to repeat that the 2 billion played out just before election are only a fraction of this matter. I can, for example. Reminds me that if my hometown, Sigludur, is to enter the Northeast District then it's perfectly safe, at the highest. Prime Minister, to write one piece of a tunnel. Since then, I have been standing for several hundred hours in this dignified talk and enjoying every hour of my life. I have been entrusted with a variety of confidential activities, as well as with traditional committees, such as the vice president and secretary of the Parliament, the head of the trade committee and then the professional committee, 3rd and now this ideal period of the 1st vice president of the General Assembly, and most notably, of the transport minister, and then the minister of transport and rural government. I can say that when I think back at that breakthrough that this is the most interesting job I've ever been doing in my life of trouble, even though it was a difficult time. At this farewell hour, I'd like to thank senators and the members of the Generals cooperation over the past 17 years and the dignified and important Council, I wish all good things in the coming years. I am grateful and happy that I had been privileged to serve at the General Assembly, so I especially thank my voters and supporters for trusting me and choosing me for this joy - inspiring work that is about to come to an end. I hope I've been trusted. V.E.G. President. One of my members of the council has been with me all this time at the General Assembly, which is my friend. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. I now thank him for the long, good and successful cooperation from my first day at the Council, as well as for all the council members of the North-eastern Presidency I've been working in, as previously said, and then, especially so. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who has traveled with us for the past 13 years on election tours and a ballot, has worked many things, and has served together through the years. Most of all, I thank you for the current highest. President and my friend, The Einar K. Guðfinnsson, especially good and effective cooperation, both on the presiding committee and at the General Assembly. Looking back, I began my interest in work at the Generals just as I worked on a so - called community committee arranged for the election change that was brought to the highest level. President, The Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson. There were some important and practical suggestions, but Einar and I have done some things, such as. reimburse one tunnel west on the beach for five minutes at a government meeting about a year. Finally, once again, I wholeheartedly thank the cooperation and wish all present and future senators all the good they do in their jobs for country and nation. V.E.G. President. I like this reference from an old man named Hjörtur Krist Kristmundsson, which is my last words in a farewell address at the General Assembly: The years run, the waves run, Old age breaks sails. Fences over words, I live a good memory. A respectable president. I bow both to the President and his office as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u26	Mr. President would like to thank you for the warm words that fell to him at the Generals, the members of the council, and the members of the Generals and members of the council, who through all the time agree that they are an old friend and combat partner. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. The president feels that he is very comfortable with that. A senator completes his career by taking steps to transport, especially road events, that have had a strong sense of urgency. Senator, as we all know. You could say that. A senator has done it out of style, because here he breaks. A senator's discussion of the transport program in order to present these fine words. We're saying goodbye to some people. Senators who have served here for a long time, others continue and, of course, there will be a big change here at the council. You're right. A senator said that we broke it together from a government meeting to make a change in the title of a funeral between Isafjörg, Snivell Valley, and Bolungarvík. The president may not have made it clear before, but it may be in good shape today, in which there is a great demand for transparency in the administrations that this is stated at the General Assembly, so that it has become indistinguishable for the future. The President wishes that at this moment. A senator and his family were very successful in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u27	A respectable president. Thank you for the pleasant exchange here. I'd like to use this opportunity and enter the President for what he's thinking about the continuation of the meeting. Knowing that a lunch session was delayed because it was important to explain the Senate lines and pay for today's progress. I understand that there was no meeting planned for lunch with the Environmental Ministry Specialist, so I ask the president, "What's the plan for continued meetings?"
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u28	It is true that a meeting was announced on the job committee to discuss the programs that have been taught at Backaka. It was planned at that meeting that representatives of the Environment Ministry came to account for a letter or opinion that the Ministry had sent to the Committee on Line Laws in connection with Bakka's implementation. Sadly, those members of the Ministry who had been announced were unable to make it, so there were legitimate reasons. The President has discussed with the chairman of the committee who intends to later this day as soon as possible, as soon as these delegates can meet with the committee, they will have a meeting on the committee to review these matters. That meeting cannot be quite this time, but it is not clear when it will be, but it assumes that it will be later today. Then it is the President's intention to proceed with the current program. But the president has hoped that in view of the fact that it is now with all his heart that he is now trying to do as well as possible to reduce the number of opinions that exist on individual issues, which may arise. The members of Congress have naturally requested that they shed light on the subject, the president expects the discussion to be more perfunctory, and we are extending further with today's program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u29	Mr. President. We're here one more day, and the members of the board haven't agreed on how they want to complete this council. I was texted that I should be prepared for a vote today, but then I learned that there would be no votes about variations. Here are two members of the council in the hall. The third is now seen. There seems to be a very little need for members of the council here. Therefore, I would like to know why we have a council meeting if members of the Parliament do not trust themselves to be here at the council meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u30	There are nearly 30 members of Congress here, 27 members of the total, including 12 members, so the president feels that there is nothing to be done to keep up with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u31	A respectable president. We find the so - called Backward matter difficult to deal with. It was quite clear the first time it came into this hall that it wasn't all right. Now, the Environment and Resource Commission has announced to the council that its results can be expected right away next week, even on Monday. It's amazing to see how you're doing. The job committee and leading men there have continued to drive the case before the decision comes. I'd like to be recommended that we wait a little while and wait for the decision that will arrive on Monday. [[The president calls.]] Then the Allied Congress does not have to establish the arbitrary laws here in the box on the Backburner's electrons.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u32	Mr. President. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for his good and beautiful words toward the council and looking in the rearview mirror over his career. That's always interesting. And since I've been watching what. A senator through the years and joined him in committees from the time I attended a council seven years ago can confirm that he is a zealous fighter for the region and transportation. He'll be lost at the council. The rest of us who are going to continue to serve here will take away his flag and continue to have it drill through the mountains in most parts of the country. We'll discuss the transport programme and here we have some adjustment proposals that lead to the end of the Parliament and the changes made to the transport and environment committee on transport programmes from both the majority and the smaller parts. Under these adjustments, members of the Environment and Transport Committee are writing from all categories, including the proposals of a smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee. Of course, I am very happy to see it, for it really took time to spit in my hands about transportation. The suggestions that the greater part provided for change are the price of all good taxes, and I accept them, of course, if they are late. Sadly, these three years have been wasted in the construction of infrastructure and transport in the country. But better is late than never. We in the smaller part had some adjustments to support the adjustment proposals that came from the greater part. Now they agree to take in more money for maintenance of roads that can't be saved. It takes less than that. It is said that donations increase by more than 1.1 billion in 2017 and 1.3 billion in 2018. I know that many people are happy to hear that, both the people of the country, who live in bad road systems and the road models because they need a good time to prepare their projects and need to know what to play. Although this is not the final failure of the budget, I trust and believe that there will be a council that has the ambition to do well in transportation because it is a much accumulated problem. The safety and transportation due to the whole community must begin to clean up immediately. Here we also agree to a proposal from us in the smaller section to put 125 million. K. in the construction of the Forest Coast Road in 2017, which I am very happy about, and 125 billion. K. 2018. There will also be money to fix the Microshaft along the Haggis, the way out to the grave, and there will be no salvation. They are talking about and suggested a record of 120 million. K. in 2018. In the East, we are talking about the year 2018 as 50 million. K. In preparing and sending on Axes Road, I rejoice with the inhabitants of that area, since it is an isolated area that needs a well built - up road into the middle of the East. We're talking about here. It's falling out of the clouds a little bit, 10 million. K. in research and early design of terrestrial tunnels between sailing ground and river, 5 billion. K. Next year, 5 million. K. 2018. I am happy and happy for people in the north, but I would like to see the same amount of research in Eelfjörður tunnels being discussed in my committee's list. This will be emphasized and made very important by the Council of the Northwestern District, and I cannot believe that it would be an equal case and that the amount of money would be set up in the study of Eelfafjörður, since it is a very important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u33	A respectable president. I have to agree with that. A senator has to check to see if there's a real possibility for Eelfjörður tunnels. It would be better if the smaller part's proposal had completely entered the suggestion of more part than it is something that has come in, e.g. Maintaining roads and improvements in the road to Doom. This is a cause for joy. I'd like to ask you what. In effect, a senator believes that it needs to get the weather off course. To maintain roads from time to time, the road seems to require up to 11 billion dollars. every year. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who is very familiar with it there, how much money she thinks would be needed to get the Vestundian, and including the southern part of the West, to look for safe roads, to no longer have dirt roads there, but to the point of straddling the stretch and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u34	Madam President. A big question is asked, and I'm not an engineer in financial accounts for road construction. My thumb rule is 50 billion, and I'd like to know if I'm far from the right number or not, but I think it's not necessarily far from the right number. We're talking about completing roads on the Vestfjords of 60 and several national and network roads, animal tunnels, building on the Dothandidir, and completing the road along the coasts of Aarnesfjords and by the road to the grave. I don't think it's far from possible to say 50 billion plus. But I'm not going to guarantee that number, and it may well be that someone at Vega - her employees are probably following this discussion - would jump off the road because of the irresponsible speech of a senator's district. We also have to have some sense of these matters, and I'm putting a lot of emphasis on the Eelfafground tunnel, but as I understand, there's been some means that we've been investigated there. Maybe they don't have tunnels inside those 50 billion. I think we need to take them out of parentheses, it could be 60 billion if we take them too. But they are urgent because the route between the Slysvík and Skull is often extremely dangerous. You can thank for not becoming a serious accident there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u35	A respectable president. Yes, I don't think 50 billion are far off, though it is, of course, irresponsible to say it. But I think it's very useful, to get a sense of how the road system is in this area, to imagine what it might cost. I agree with what. A senator as to the importance of tunnels. We can see that, for example. Both in the Faeroe Islands and in Norway, where mountains are abundant and inhabited. It simply has the value of a tunnel policy, there's no muffle with it, that's how it's just. It is by far the most certain and prevents people from going up to the desert, and a tunnel is often the only option that works. I'm on it. A senator fighting for Eelfjörður. I'd like to get in there, too. A member of the Parliament, by what means does the passing of a tunnel change, have a bearing on it? I know why. A senator is well aware of the area, and I know that many tunnels there are relatively new, e.g. Between Bolungarvík and Isafjörður. Well, maybe. A senator only told me how it changes conditions into that building? Even if a person from Reykjavík is not passing through there every day, it is very direct to conclude that this must be a great addition to culture and cooperation between communities and traffic security. I'd love to hear it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u36	Madam President. If this area was to be realized by the Eelphebraum, this area would become a commercial domain. The Bolungarvík has made it much more communication between Bolungarvík and Isafjörður but with all the trade and communication. It has changed in a short period of time because it was a dangerous road to travel, often shut and often closed, and it is extremely dangerous. The same can be said of the Slysavíavíð, where people are regularly on their way to attend services in Isafjörður. It is often shut down regularly because of the danger of avalanches and because of the risk of mud. It is only people with strong bones who can tolerate such conditions for the long time, that they are always at risk when they go between them and all their children to attend service to Isafjörður to land between two avalanches, and be isolated there. No one realizes this except those who live under such circumstances. It would be a huge change in the lives of people and people's interest in living in Susgavík and would strengthen this area to obtain this tunnel. This is also the route from Isafjörður and Bolungarvík to the capital area. The spray cover must always be used and, of course, equally dangerous for all the people who regularly pass through, such as the population of the country, to pursue service in the capital area. This is a huge matter of interest and security, and I'm stressing that we members of the district are going to make adjustments in order for research and money to be made in Eelfafjörður tunnels.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u37	A respectable president. I have arrived in my second or third talk about a road program now open to the General Assembly. It's good to see you look over this small hall that there are only women in the hall talking about transportation and making new notes. But maybe the boys are just wearing some back-temma in a smoke-filled backroom about how to land this fine transport plan because we hear from the tunnel that there are new ideas coming in. But okay. First, I'd like to say that, of course, I'd like to welcome the adjustment proposal that comes from the entire committee, which has become a solid agreement, for additional research contributions. In particular, I am glad that I am over my years of solidarity to add more than 2 billion in maintenance and restoration, since it is long time for our foundation systems to be updated. I'm going to use my last minutes on the platform, because this is the last speech I'm giving at the General, to discuss a specific transport plan, more specifically on the road to the West, and a parish plan. First of all, a proposal to conduct a judicial hearing suggests that a transport plan has a appeal and is in context to the national parish program. I took a special look at Vestur's application plan for the period 20151⁄22019 and I have to say that this application plan, of course, is a good price paying, it is a step in the right direction and it certainly has a reference to a transport plan, but in other respects I have to declare that I have been disappointed by the fact that much of the nation's parish programmes have been diluted since the first development. It was during the last term when the United States government and the left greens were involved in the European Union's affairs and we began to adopt a process of designing and then especially in rural areas. There we took examples from other European countries, where people make actual application plans for seven years, which are thus protected from possible changes in more parts of the council. For example, the current Western application schedule, 20153/4/2019, is to form a burning target that very few people come to lay the foundation on it. A fourth contact of the Western Union repeatedly called upon a consultation, as shown in this document, on how the schedule should look. However, as the document shows, very few of those who were called to participate in the policy - making process were involved. I'm not going to give myself what it is, but I've heard that people feel that it's been a showdown and that the participation in this case was as dramatic as it really is. This is shown on page 22. 13 in the Western application program that attempts were repeated to get people to the table, but only four rural areas of nine turned in references to the field of consultation. Nevertheless, this is an interesting document, and I must say, a respectable president, that the 25 - quarter person standing next to my heart is just vested, since I lived there and worked for a few years, and therefore I know the inside and the community there very well. Unfortunately, perhaps the biggest problem isn't necessarily transportation because, whatever the case with the bad road in the West, they have improved greatly, thanks to members of the Northwestern Parliament who have been struggling hard for the better west on the coast. There are seas and lands between driving the West now or just a few years ago, whether south or north of the West. Today, things are quite different from those of just a few years ago. The problems of transport on the south side of the West are not necessarily a lack of financial resources or will; the problems are primarily about the problem of the road. I just want to come back to what's presented in the Western parish program. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that much of today's problems are monotonous employment. This monotonous career has not developed in this way because transportation is so bad. It has evolved that way because it has not necessarily been the will to stress the development of a community - yes, it may have been the will, but it has not reached all the way - as convenient for women as for men to sit west on the beach. It is confirmed in this report that professional life in the West is very monotonous, and it is male. That's the root of the problem, I think, to a large extent. It's a professional life, but not the road system, although, of course, it's very tight together, of course. The reason I went into politics at my time in 2009 was my sincere belief that Iceland was better off in the European Union, and I have not abandoned that belief since then, even though things have gone on in the continent. I often think about Vestafjörður in this regard. If we'd like to talk about a ball or a ballot in this country, I'd think that Iceland's country, and especially the national districts of North-western and North-eastern politics, and the South-elections by incidents, would probably have benefited most in Iceland's involvement with the European Union. So I think the loss of these areas is huge. Then I am not only talking about the financial resources that would have slipped out of the European Union's funds, but I'm also talking about maintenance and organization in the work programme here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. That's why it is still my religion, as previously said, a respectable president, that we should continue, that we are to be paid nationally for continued negotiations with the European Union. A respectable president. With these words, I would like to thank the council and the members of the council for the last two terms of enjoyable cooperation. As I said earlier, I first attended a council in 2009. There's a lot to remember during the Senate hearings. Although I've stayed here for a while, or I've missed, I've taken a few seats a few times. Of course, the most memorable and difficult part of our life is the national court case that was very distressing to all of us, and it was a real challenge to each one of us and, of course, to cooperate and cooperate with members of the council at that time. It was hard, and I hope we never have to get into that language again and that we, of course, learn from it. A respectable president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u38	A respectable president. I thank you for the Senator's speech, for it established the issues of transportation that must also be considered, and there are women and women's rights in the world. I remember that when it came to this travel program, someone from the Vest Reconnaissance, good if not, simply said that family members and women were even. To move from this settlement, from the potential danger of the total Western out of roads, because the road system is so bad and insecure. It is a great deal of self - determination to live in a safe place where women will feel safe if they are to be used in comparison. It's very important, I think, to look at a much more comprehensive process of transportation, and even from gender views. So it was very interesting to me. Similarly, when it comes to the West, I share it with you. A member of the council, although I should not have been traced to the West, nor should I have lived there. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who has lived on the Westfjords herself, and since she is a woman, has ever experienced the uncertainty of being on the road there, whether this feeling that many people have on road roads and especially that bad roads is true or whether it's just a feeling that you've heard of, but perhaps it doesn't really work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásta the Guðrún - given daughter of Helgadóttir for her answer. I lived and worked west on shores in 1992,1995, and then as a traveling representative of the West. The point is, I was on the move, and most of the year I was on my own. I lived in the West and with the West, when the greatest natural disaster of the quarter was over, and of course, I was not always comfortable, unless it was not so. But I used to feel good because it's a wonderful area to live on, and it's where good people, real people. As I said before, I go west very often, and the roads have changed so much that there's nothing like equal. A respectable president. I would also like to add to the fact that when Icelanders were having a business venture with the European Union and I went through the country very much and I was preparing a so-called IPA project, it was a great pleasure to go and have a conversation with people, organizations, companies and individuals, who could suddenly think into a seven-year community program, where they could take a sex machine. The challenge was to take the sex friendship in the settlements. It was directly the message that we received in the European Union's settlements to be equal to that of the second - sex industry, and it's usually women, we should specifically consider that possibility. When we went through the country with the message to prepare big, ambitious projects - there were, of course, a lot more money available, a respectable president, now just as it were in the European Union - it was like a new gap and a much more creative idea of how to build up a career, including. ... ontheWestlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u40	A respectable president. That's a very interesting friendship as a boy. A senator is coming with us, i.e. How much impact does the European Union's involvement have on the transport system? Now I don't know if it's swamp, but I've been told that one of the first things the European Union does is strengthen the interior of the country that decides to enter it. By strengthening wood, we are, in effect, strengthening the community within the board and thus creating peace. The European Union is the foundation of a great international peace organization. I don't remember if it was a whisker. A senator who spoke of the roads in East Romania, that they were even better than the roads in Iceland. Now I've traveled very much myself, and I can claim that the roads are both Armenia and Georgia, in Iran and East Turkey, are better than many of the mountain roads here, simply because there's money in the road system, because heavy transport passes there. We're on an island which means that airports and shipping are the only way to move goods in and out of the country. Even so, we also need to be able to travel through and in terms of the equal role that the road system should play, I think the European Union is doing a very good thing about it. It would be nice to learn more about this, for like a dog. In the past, a senator has personally traveled through the country to ask for ambitious tasks. I ask if there were some means of transportation available to build up the monuments we need to contribute to the equations that the European Union wants to contribute to.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásta on the second answer to the Guðrún - fearing daughter of Helgadóttir. I can't say that if we walked into the European Union today it would put a lot of money on road construction in Iceland, I doubt it. However, it was the decision to build up the transport system in Eastern Europe because it was in very poor condition when Eastern European nations were connected, this was a special effort. However, because we are so lucky to be in that part of the world, in Europe, if we go to a smaller scale, we enjoy great prosperity. Making transportation more than anything is a priority. What I learned in this process was very valuable to me. This approach, based on structure, is a policy approach, and this is not the focus of transport but of building up infrastructure for education, employment development, innovation, and the like. It is, as I said in my first speech, a special effort was made to strengthen women who live in brittle places for education and for the sake of their own existence and existence in scattered places. As I was in my speech earlier, the Western application schedule directly says that perhaps the main problem now is the West, and the reason for the population's decline, not necessarily the road system itself, but, of course, of course, but also a monotonous job life and a very inhuman, seasonal fluctuations in tourism and so forth. It is a pleasure to receive an additional budget on the Doomstref and all the improvements proposed in the transport program before the council, but there is something else that may be a problem in the West and that is not related to a transport program like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u42	Madam President. On the east side, Viggar in the Valley of Moriscos, there is a great interest in getting tunnels through a mountain of testing. The locals have been hoping for support and support from the General on a transport program to implement it for decades. However, there is no traffic issue or external circumstances that justifies such a arrangement and will certainly be delayed. Nevertheless, the locals have strongly opposed all repairs on the current road line in the hope that they will receive this funding. They have not wanted the road bridge to rise from the lowland to the highlands, so to speak, about 125 yards north of testtop, because they fear that it will lead to failure to get money to dig through a mountain of testing. Unfortunately, such an end often occurs in the road system, in transport, in the cooperation of the sheep market and the local government. I've felt the same thing for a long time when it comes to roading through Chef Forest. The locals have put tremendous emphasis on getting a road through the forest of Chef, certainly to correct the intense road that lies at the Olysian neck and throat, but that is not the greatest obstacle in this road. This is not what's most wrong. I wanted to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, because she spoke in her speech about the state of the West, about her opinion on the position that exists there. How would it be possible for her to correct her?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u43	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for his answer. Now I have to admit that I don't know the latest situation on the south side of the West Forest, so I can't answer that question. However, that is how, and I only brought it into my speech yesterday, that a road model at the bottom of the Beufjörg has, among other things, rested on a gang or cross - fence between landowners and the road model. It is this way in many parts of the country that we find it difficult to build the roads that are called behind, and we ourselves want to be part of the good road system of our country. I hope, on behalf of the Westerners and all those who want to go west on their way to the fjords, the least of whom are the tourists, or those who want to build up jobs in this quarter, this controversy about the forest. Two members of the West are here in the hall, and they may be able to inform us about the situation in the development of German and Chefwood roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u44	A respectable president. I have been a member of this complex, the transport, for a very long time, and have often wondered if there is any reason to find a new, perhaps more theoretical, professional way of setting priorities but just by the arrival of politicians. Of course, it is our responsibility to make arrangements and to determine the extent to which it will contribute to new development, maintenance, and so on. Sadly, though, in this category of languages, it is often the case that in the countryside it is considered a matter of personal duty to senators to reflect the wishes of local people in these matters. That is why I mentioned the example of Mount Try. When I was a member of the Southern District and attended a meeting in Vicodin Valley, I was asked the opinion of a tunnel through a mountain of testing. I said that I thought it was a terrible thing to do because there was no problem to solve, that it might be solved in another way. As a result, I received many informing signs that I was not going to be with local people on this special project, which, in my opinion, is extremely questionable with regard to nature protection and the delicate life - styles at the Dyholaós, which are part of a natural mine. Other than that, I shared that huge amount of money on a project that could be solved in another way. The road has shown that by moving the line of roads to the other side of the street, you could make a much more powerful road, a much less expensive arrangement. I've also wanted to think about this in connection with a planned road venture in a Smokehlah carpet. I feel that it should be guided by professional views, that there are accurate numbers and calculations of engineers that lead to the best results.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u45	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall answers again. I think we can agree on that, me and the other. A senator, that it is wise to get specialists from the south to review the roads and try to find the best ways to handle each road situation. Of course, keeping the local people in mind is very important. Then I would like to use this opportunity again and point out that Iceland's plans are still primitive, and that mine knows rather random. There is no long - range view of where we want to develop in our country. In most parts of the country, people will decrease in number and will likely continue, they will need a great deal to reverse this trend. She's not a Reverend, she's not a Specialist, it's a problem in the whole world. People flock to cities and want to live in cities. That's even. ... becausethatwecomein before, i.e. that women's employment opportunities in the country are far more limited. For some reason, this has been the case in many places, not just in this country, but we are talking about Iceland and an Icelandic transport program, and there are growing costs for women to educate and work. Of course, the demand for a wide range of jobs has grown, making it harder for young families to move abroad, to start farming, and to act. Young people today, both women and men, are usually very well educated, increasingly educated, and both mates must find themselves in a new place and in new roles. So it is of utmost importance that we consider employment to be equally important for women and men in our country, as well as elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u46	A respectable president. Following the discussion of the last speaker's talk, why? paritaprevir Guðjónsdóttir Margrét, the Goddjongóttir, I would like to me to merely get involved in these discussions about areas, such as. Whether the transportation is the main threshold or the monotonous life of the industry, as noted in a talk. Senator. I just want to say something about this. I'm afraid the monotonous industry is still rolling. in the transport process. It is not good to develop a job life and promote innovation, promote education, and increase resources in parts of the country that are not living with normal transport. Transport is such an enormously important factor in their competitiveness to other parts of the country. The Member States compete for manpower, compete for qualified people, compete to get businesses and employment into their own areas. It depends a lot on transportation. I just wanted to say something about it. But there's something else I'm thinking about. Hv. Senators on hold. Transport Committees are beginning to negotiate at the end of Congress on the consequences and individual options for transport. Now suddenly it's set up on the table, I'm told, to give a quarter of a million. K. To search for land in the rivers, which I will not lie down against: for I am not against the channels of the earth. However, the fact that such proposals are being made in the last record of a formal case in the council that is designed to establish an Eelfjörður tunnel into a transport program is an urgent twice - in - a - date traffic security issue that has been presented in the council in both this term and the last season. It is the transportation process that a smaller part of the transport committee especially drew attention to in their minority committees. I just want to let you know that even if I'm not in it. I am prepared to make adjustments in the transport program, which allows at least the same amount of money to be spent on research and preparation for a more selective or professional examination to prepare for the transport of Eelfjörður to establish a transport plan. It is only to ask for an urgent improvement in transport that replaces the spray bay with its 22 potential avalanches, both shock and avalanches, at the worst, sometimes all at once, at the same time, to be taken up to a professional level of matter so that they can be placed into the priority of a transport program. There are no other requirements. I think all reasonable people must see the wisdom in getting them onto a transport plan and spending some money, even though they are not great, maybe 5◯10 million. K. to get that out of the way. I'd be happy if I could. Maybe I don't have to make these adjustments, maybe rethink my position, or show my will. A transport committee to add this. But it is not quite acceptable that in the last few years of transport planning, there are some projects that have not been implemented and that have never been discussed in the case itself while others are being put aside, such as the project I mentioned. It is not only important that the aluminium surface can be identified as a more dangerous route between communities; it is clean and secure because of the great danger created in the spray bay all around the winters, and it is regarded by professionals as the most dangerous road to global danger, as is the case when the road was constructed by Bolung through the Opportunum. [[The president calls.]] So it should be clear what's at stake here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u47	Madam President. Because we're on a funeral theme, talking about a transport plan, I'd like to hear some views. A senator on the effects of Eelfjörður, if they become reality, on the community west and north part of the West. We celebrated the 20th anniversary of the West, September 14, 20 years since their dedication. Former secretary of transportation, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, played a major role in their reality at the time, showing that humans can work for their own district, and that is how they should be. As a result, rural communities were united in the West. Ice farm had a 20 - year anniversary this year, the reason why the settlements that broke into the town of Isafjörg were that transportation had become easy, and it became a revolution for all human life and employment in that area. It may not always be understood what a tunnel does. Some people think that it's just a matter of short-acting, not thinking about the security factor and everything that is going to change, that communities get stronger, strong, can use better education and culture, health care, and so on. I just want a vision. A senator who, along with other proposals for an Eelfjörður tunnel, offered them a plan, which is before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u48	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. At times, aquifers are spoken of as simple ads and pets, but these are enormously important projects in such countries as ours, where transport and landscapes are in fact, especially in areas such as the West. Let us take, for example, the animal tunnel. They replace a mountain road that is closed for nine months of the year. If you don't make it through the Hafnseyh River to winter, you'll have to move seven hundred miles [700 km] between Icefafjörður and Patrefjörður, a road that will take only two and a half hours to drive over the summer months. It tells itself that this is a huge interest issue for the two members on both sides of the expected health services, job structure and to achieve objectives of synergistic impacts, together with administrative institutions, etc. The Eelfjörður tunnel reports show that the rise in avalanches has been great since 1991 as a result of changes in weather patterns and winds in the Ísafjörður, which cause snow retention in the slope. Thus, 56 avalanches per year were measured in the year's spray archipelago in 1991-280, compared to 42 in the deadly assurveils that have now been replaced by the Bolungarvík. Advertisers, professionals, have pointed out that a tunnel is the only action that can ensure full security along the way and remember a considerably reduced distance between communities. It is estimated that on a scale of 15 to 10, these tunnels would receive a score of 10, while the same score will be 5. That means the spray truffle is actually Russian roulette. [[The president calls.]] They drive school cars with children, and people have to go to all the services they need to do to Isafjörður every day, and many also go to work. So it is not merely a defender to take some action there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u49	Madam President. I want to turn my songs into a cross and get on the plane. There are some options that have been considered. Iceland's airline is about to start flying straight from Keflavík to plan positions like the Akureyris; there might be other places. What do you think? A senator to offer such an invitation, away from the dispute on the location of the Reykjavík airport? If we take it out of parentheses and just watch out for tourists, whether it is Icelanda, or less tourist attractions that are active, and are studying the trades abroad, offering that there could be a flight from Keflavík to this airport; Icefjordur, Burgundy, Akureyri, Egresss, Cape of the Hornfjord, because of Gjör or re-starting Alxeander Airport at the Savoursk. Is it not a clear interface area, sails that could be used for travel services and should not interfere with anything else? Nothing will happen if product is not available, product must first be available to sell. What do you think? A senator about this? How does she feel about examining the Scottish route of international transportation and subsidies from the state to those whose home is the most distant market area here in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u50	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. The senator that the product must be available, and the possibility must be there for someone to make use of it. Therefore, it is important to increase domestic flights. I consider domestic flights to be public transportation, although there is not a general definition today, but I believe that this is the way it should be viewed. The role of the international flight and the government should look for ways that most people can keep their tickets so that the public can take advantage of this option, I do not talk about when the conditions of the roads are, as they do. The idea of flying directly from Keflavík Airport to a spot in the country I believe is good and perfectly interesting to allow others to benefit from it as well. Of course, the number of travel is increasing and for areas that want and are likely to benefit from the tourist wave. Of course, flying is very important and it is possible to allow tourists to fly directly to places like Isafjörður, in sheep's jar, and elsewhere. This is because more people are allowed to benefit from the resource of tourism. Now that we've been talking about this, I'd like to also mention, especially with Ísafjörður, that there's been a spare airport, a few years of limited exposure and sort of like there's been a silent agreement to stop using that field, for the most unfortunate time, for a number of people who need to take advantage of air travel, especially for their jobs. So it is also important that the existing aviators are maintained and used. [[The president calls.]] But I agree with what. Senator, it's a good idea to go ahead and record a straight flight from Keflavík in more places than Akureyri.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u51	Madam President. I decided to still get involved in this discussion specifically to celebrate the adjustment proposal now made by a joint environmental and transport committee under the lead. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, where the main points of the transport program will be included in the development of the changes in my share presented here with a committee earlier in the discussion. This may indicate that if we continue to improve in this way, we should continue to maintain a transport plan even longer. Of course, happiness results when a large issue of this kind is made well, and it will be more settled in its final meters. I don't think it's clear that there is a need and even more, but here's to deal with an agreement to put on another billion dollars. particularly into the maintenance program, and then to prepare or start some of the urgent projects that had been discussed in the discussion that had been left out, such as the road to Forest Beach and the Arrowary Way. It is also decided that preparations should be made for Oxi directly following the completion of a procedure at the bitter end of the Earth, which should well have long been done if this work had not been greatly delayed for various reasons, mainly because of a conflict of circumstances and quarreling between landowners or between landowners. Finally, the end of it is in place, and now all is there, I think, which is needed to carry it out. It turns out that the built - up road over Axi is a tremendous project, a great shortcut for all transports and transports of southern Eastern Europe, and up to the Shire, and actually for all the traffic that comes east along the coast and ends on the Shire or the Northeast. The road is very much driven. The traffic is hundreds of cars a day while the road is open and on occasional snowcapped winters in recent years has been the most open section of the year. There have been gentle winters in this area, but, of course, it is very high that the road is not useful to its building, so I am delighted to do this work completely. With regard to the discussion here on a tunnel I've been following, and an amateur of such matters as these have been, I have to say, in fact, my opinion that one of the Icelanders has made a bigger mistake in transport not to go off much earlier with a funeral plan and with considerable force. There was a long and tragic break after the unpublished tunnel in the Odds Pass and the Kid tunnel was made, and people would avoid the fact that the experience of their work was not good and that it would probably be difficult in Iceland, etc. I can't remember how far the break was, about 15, 20 years, but at the same time, the Faeroe Islands began their ambitions to link most of the islands together with a tunnel and to have it far along. We're heading for a tunnel to Sand Island and a tunnel under the ice fun. There's nothing left but South Island, which is not one of the great buildings that have not come into one interconnected network. This has been very persistent. They're paying due fees in certain tunnels and with dozens of tunneles they've created one job, service and communication area on all the northern islands, which, of course, alters the situation for modern society there. Of course, we are so far behind, as the years and decades went by and nothing happened here. But better still than never, it can be said that in the last 20 or 25 years, the earth has been virtually continuous. Unfortunately, only one step at a time, which would have to be two or at least so that a tunnel was overlapd in handsomely by the fact that men had started a new location while strudeling and preparing for traffic in the preceding tunnel. Then, good things will continue to happen in these respects. Of course, I agree that a tunnel to replace this dangerous passage between Isafjörður and Susavík is very necessary and natural to consider their preparation, but it also refers to a tunnel that replaces the deadly road north of Siglundur, which could therefore all go out into the ocean at any time, because it is all the land's falling down and the big ledges on the road. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is also natural to expect this procedure to be prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's presentation of a well - informed speech. It's fun to think about these things in the context of our times. A senator made it about the Faeroe Islands because it is possible to look at the situation with a visitor's eye and see that it has become a structure that serves the whole area well. If you want to wear the same glasses or try to remove the most important interests and traits of this discussion in Iceland, you will find the situation where you need to work, perhaps ten years of effort, where we will decide to complete the available tasks so that you can make the country one single stable area, and it is possible for you to work with a fixed center each quarter. The work we have to do on the West is to complete, which is a connection between southern and northern West, and then, of course, we are going to walk, and I'll join the town of Isafavík. And so is the Orient. A lot of things would be solved by the way over Oxi, if it happened, would be truly positive. But if you watch the bigger picture, you can't overlook the importance of going to a road account and separating between Reykjavík and Akureyri, this major region's urban core, and just like solving its traffic weight in the Southland. Among the things I would also like to mention is the link between Reykjavík and the Westland Road, with the new Sunway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u53	Madam President. I think the next long-term schedule should set up the routes from the capital, at least east to the Cape South and, of course, to the South, then to the Westland, and in due time to Akureyri, it will be prepared to go there in separate travel policies. There is nothing more to the future than that, but that, of course, is a big task. This need to be considered because, in some cases, the oldest chapters of the discussion will occur in the next few years. There are still quite old chapters, narrow roads that have a poor discrepancies that belong to highway 1, and the road model is considering taking some of them for rebuilding. Of course they should be rebuilt as 2+1 road at least With regard to the tunnel, it is clear that we have an unproved task there. We are naturally about to launch an animal tunnel and here we have been referred to as aerospace tunnel. Sufficiency, the link between Sufjörður is a top priority, for there will be no lasting pleasure, the condition of the Funeral Earth, and then there must be continued, linking the Austlands together, walking through the Snowfjords and to the North World. It needs to come at the end of a tunnel under Hellish Island so that it can be driven along the coast and lowlands all the northeast way from the lake of light and along the coast and then up to the Shire. And there must be a tunnel under the Sea of Siglusund Pass, and at some point a tunnel that leads the Grinch from the Valley of Hörgár, to the land of Skavelf. True, it is a great project, but it is a nationally enormously good because it would probably shorten the way about 20 miles, 15, 20 miles, and we would be getting rid of one of the most difficult mountain roads in the main traffic. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just a matter of taking it off, but it's just to sort it out rationally and lay plans that look forward to a very long future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u54	A respectable president. The more serious it will be when you look at the face of complete performance in this ideal period of government with existing members of this body of government, to actually face the huge task that is faced with them completely sleeping in the jury, and, in reality, we are in the final yards of this council trying to save the corners of the board when it comes to at least Set up one transport plan during the election season. Better now. Of course, aside from the huge tasks that we have mentioned, which would be the normal steps in the next ten years or so, you also need to go to the holistic structure of the public transport system so that it will be useful to all, that is a link between major areas, is a link between flight selections. Besides, I'd like to mention a bicycle plan. There is no bicycle plan, no country plan on how to build up so that a bicycle can be used as a means of transportation, both between rural and internal. I've tried to propose at the council a proposal to conclude that this is the way to start a job, that it is designed for a plan in this field. Furthermore, I would like to mention, as part of long-term transport policies that take into account climate developments, that people look to a major number of challenges, and how we can do so. Certainly, there is plenty to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u55	Madam President. I agree with what. A senator's need for a future, a progressive policy that includes the areas of life, is very important to the future. Public transportation and bicycles, and all of that is underneath. In fact, I believe, because the flight has only been recorded, that the international flight should be defined as public transportation. There is nothing other than public transportation, and in some cases, it is the only public transportation available to people, the people of Gímney, at Gjörri, that is the only public transportation they have, and in much of the year it applies to other living laws. The price must be taken down. The treaty with the capital area and then with the national bus and public transport organization during the last term was a major turning point. It was the first time that we properly saw that we were getting into the present system of things. There have been quite good things that have happened, as we will see in the capital area, those of us who sometimes go for a run or a wheel. It is, of course, a joy to see that development. Then there's the bus, despite some initial problems, things have been improved and they're back on public transportation. I agree with what. In the discussion of this blessed transport program, a senator has said this several times, which is expected to be done at last, and in a broader way, after much has been fixed throughout the council. It was incredibly ambitious and desperate as it appeared in spring, cutting down into the framework established by the government budget. Now people have decided to push it aside and put much more money on it. It's a good stage as far as it goes, but to me there is no new government, but to put hard work into the long - term outlook and have been able to think about the exact topic of discussion. That's quite the thing to do, e.g. for the transportation and road routes to read carefully the fine discussion that has taken place here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. He entered a very interesting point, which is the way Norwegians and Movers have dealt with their transport. I know well in Norway, since my mother lives there, knowing that there are roads very common even in small settlements. My mother lives for about a year. 16,000 inhabitants, i.e. in that area, and the main road enters the large town surrounding it. And because they are making great progress, the road is being fixed, changing, and making it safer, it is now 20 k. tax or custom to drive into and out of town, i.e. for the use of the road. It's all government business as far as I know. This is not really a private assignment. Paying off is just payin' for the road. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into one, the Hailing tunnel in Iceland, which is now good if not only in private property, although there are some conditions that might be given to the Icelandic government the way when the Whale Vault has been paid up. Is this arrangement something that we might be considering? Then I'm thinking, for example. on roads that are mainly used by tourists, a moderate price of 200 p.m., something similar, if it really were to bridge the means for such projects to be real options. Then I think, for example. By the way to the gravel. There are not many who go there in some other business but to examine birds and landscapes. I'd like to ask this question why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u57	Madam President. I've always felt that the road was the best way to take care of all this type of projects myself, and that they have, as well as subsidies. I was, however, the minister who carried the bill through the Hagular tunnel. But it was simply because they were private, or private, but rural and government companies, both semiofficial and public members, prepared to form a company, and offered to care for the project, were granted licenses to be paid. The result was that this bill was moved, I moved through that bill, and I finished deals with Sale. This was a perfect requirement on my part, and it was only when the tunnel had been paid up, and they walked to the State. It did not mean to have private pieces of the road system for the future. In fact, because the operator has the authority to earn money after he has paid off his loans until he has recovered his share of money with interest, he gives it to the State of the tunnel. In the end, this is how it is done, and this is closer to being company, which is called '-private partnership' or what it is. For Norway, I'd love to go over it, I've only looked at it, and I've observed it. Norwegians have a much more advanced model in this process than they do in a few others. Simply put, in the case of each major enterprise what is fair or normal, they appreciate that the traffic that will use the human race pays the high portion of the cost. In some cases, it can be accomplished that way in perhaps 25, 30 years, but in other cases, the cost of living is poor enough to make it unfair. This reduces the share ratio. Then the roads are set to carry 75% of the cost, 50% of the cost, even 25%. We could have done it very well and should have done it. [[The president calls.]] Then there would be a little roadside at The Secret, a small road seat would be in a Seyver's tunnel, but it would be set so that it would be reasonable to traffic and, of course, would be only part of the cost. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u58	A respectable president. I think this is a very interesting idea. When I think of roadtoll, the first thing I can think of is private work, but that's right. A senator says, this certainly does not have to be a personal project; it can be done on many political projects, as it has been in many other places. I think there's something we should look at, and I don't think it's too late to start looking at e.g. The Norwegian model when it comes to depositing a specific road. This also has a positive environmental effect, for it encourages people to use public transportation. For example, in Bergen, if you leave the tip of Bergen into a town, you will have to pay roadtolls in two, three chapters. People are encouraged to use the so - called Šbybanen, by permission of a president, or by the van to reduce traffic within town. This has a natural positive effect on the environment. We don't all use the private car that's naturally bad for the environment. This is their contribution to the climate goals that we are simply too ambitious. I'd like to check, if you don't mind. Not just a senator with me that this is something we should consider in the future? Is it not simply the future to try to reduce the application of the private car by means of a road to the road, by using comfortable public transportation in the heart of the town, or to the heart of the town from the suburbs, thus contributing to some of its own protection and the eyes of environmental influences?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u59	Madam President. Of course, I think that good public transportation should be part of our lives, and really, it's also a big part of the climate as well as, of course, of course, of course, of promoting energy exchanges in other transport through stimulating measures. But back to these tax returns. A whole focal point of this needs to be developed in Iceland, and it doesn't exist yet. In my opinion, the main lesson we can learn is the Norwegians. They do both, with selective roads in large animals, e.g. Now on the west coast, where there is a high - speed expressway on a building from Bergen, and just up to Þrándheim, but they also have a payment around Oslo, Šbompenger, on highways in and out of Oslo, they also pay for it, so they do both. They adjust it like I said before, that they take into account what's fair that traffic pays high percentages of cost to the relevant project. We tried it here in 2010 only for a year at the bottom of the crisis, we investigated the possibility of taking a big attack, double the road east of the mountain, and finish the Chefavour Way, and go up to the Westland, and if there were any currency involved. Most were positive, but it was so bad that they were supposed to vote for rural governments in the spring, so some local governments ran out of their way and opposed it, and they didn't do it any further. I thought it only natural that when it comes to a highway, a two - lane highway with separate vehicles, the traffic that pays for it is a little extra, just as men pay to cut themselves off by going under it. That may be the main argument against the roads, linking it to the uses humans receive from their workers. They make a shortcut, they drive on a safer road, they save time, they break down cars, and all of this. Of course, the additional taxation on this part of the traffic is justified, for by that, everyone paying their fees, oil bills, heavy taxes, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u60	A respectable president. Here is a very interesting discussion about transportation. If a person is concerned about the order of transportation, where should the provision of public funds in the construction of the transport system be located, traffic safety must be very high. Of course, there are all kinds of based interests and employment interests at stake, but traffic security must be what we put in first place when it comes to making a decision as to where money should go. The so - called zero vision that the road type has taken into account in its work is very positive, i.e. attempting to arrange the construction of transport workers or road workers so as to reduce road accidents, at least not by the transport system that causes accidents, something in the construction of the roads that could result in further damage. Of course, try to honor such a vision to the extent possible. I've always been in favor of people looking for all ways to finance necessary projects. Although it is in the end that the means of transportation may be owned by society, it may not matter exactly what the contemporaneous approach may be. Some seven or eight years ago, there was much speculation about taking up road toil in Icelandic politics and using some sort of system for financing projects. They were deeply concerned that there could be an extreme outcome, perhaps at odds with a personal protection point, that they could see where they were going. I think that everyone must agree that since then technology has thrown it so hard that it can be done with simple telephone tips to make use of roads. The good thing about having an electronic user file on the transport structure is that traffic can be controlled in a number of ways. Social views could be taken into account, trying to increase traffic at less stressful times, i.e. that it would cost less to drive for certain stress points. A special discount could be given to students, micropigs, and older citizens. A lower price could be obtained as you pollute less and so forth, just by documenting a vehicle type, by documenting each track, etc. it could be collected so that it would bring in income, that it would depend on the projects needed to take action. I am convinced that at the same time, personal protection would be possible. The telephone devices that most of us use each day can be set so that someone could actually be watching your travel all day long. It is possible to know from the devices that people carry in their pockets and stay with them, even when they are sleeping, where they are. But they can also be set so that it is not revealed. Of course, there is something that humans need to keep in mind. Technology has made it possible to do more and more, more, and faster. And by doing more and by having safer roads, we increase traffic security. We're off to accidents. That is what is most important, and that is what we should look at and let other viewpoints rather come to rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u61	A respectable president. We've been doing a few research on the line, called on the job committee and the transport committee where I'm sitting. It has been noted that the Ministry of Industrial Affairs contains several cases, finally making a motion for the adjustment of Article 3. the bill in which the main objective of the bill is to change the protection laws of nature. It is the primary objective of a bill that comes from the Ministry of industry to change nature protection laws that are thought - provoking for the first. Second, the Environment and Resource Ministry received information from an Environmental and Transport Committee requesting the Commission's opinion of both changes in nature protection and the effects of this bill on the Árose and EEA conventions. It is most recent to say that after meeting the Ministry today, the latter part today, it is so serious that due to the decision of the Ministry and the secretary of the environment, it was decided not to address a subject by a financial hearing from the Council. It is very serious that the legislature body cannot be sure that the Ministers and the government will be on the council to get the best information in cases of such a serious opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u62	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir on this matter. It remains almost weekly for us representatives of the Council of Environment and Transport Committee, who have requested information from the Ministry of Environment on their response to the situation in the case of Bakki, that the representatives of the Ministry could not be understood differently than that a minister was directly opposed to having some answer from the Ministry of State, that the political authority was placed on the Ministry's Office, and prevented from giving an explanation to the council to cover this issue. Of course, it is terribly unacceptable when this is the case, and it is evident in what happened at a meeting with a work committee earlier, where we representatives of the Environment and Transport Committee offered to sit as guests, as we have always been allowed to do in these parties, which should, in fact, be involved with the Environment Committee, that this matter must be discussed much more carefully, should be considered at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u63	A respectable president. I have to agree with the two of them. Councilmen who spoke before me about the answers from the Environment Ministry. First, they arrived late, and second, they were badly received. You're right. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir says, we need to be able to trust that we can get the special help and knowledge that is in the Ministry because otherwise, a respectable president, we need to start creating a better system around the council and the members of Congress. It just doesn't work out the way it is now, that's why. Congress officials do not have access to the best potential specialists, as other bodies have. To obtain information, we need a much more powerful legal office. So it is very serious when the Environment Ministry responds in this way because we have nothing else to look for.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u64	Mr. President. I did not attend a meeting as a boy. The members of the council sat before me, but I must be sure to express my concern in terms of the intervention of the laws and regulations that we are doing in general. This is a very serious intervention that has been unfounded by the fact that great interests are involved, and especially so, when legal laws are as good as possible. Since this legislation is a matter of righting the environment and nature protection, it is very strange that the Ministry can't be told which is the case. It is, therefore, only natural to make serious comments, since it is our job here at the General that if such measures are taken in a very serious way to ensure that they are done in the most careful way possible. To do that, all information needs to be on the level. We'll discuss the right environment and nature in this country. [[The president calls.]] We do not want to make decisions that can have unexpected consequences in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u65	President. I want to come up here to start worrying about my friends, okay? Councilmen who have mentioned earlier that legal arrangements are being taken against general courts. I am deeply concerned that the State is actually being made subject to damages. We are going into trouble with many international covenants if we are home to do so. I must also say, Mr. President, I am amazed to read this memo from the Environment Ministry. Shouldn't the Environment Ministry be a protection for the nature of the country? If there is a question, there must be expertise inside a table that can show an opinion that is more than that, it was neither a bird nor a fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u66	A respectable president. I need to add to what I said earlier on this matter that, of course, it is a serious matter when the Ministry's representatives come for a long wait at our council and declare it, in such a dramatic and dramatic matter as they are on the move, that there is an enormous uncertainty about the legal effects of the legalities in this case, in each question after the other, very uncertain. We're talking about the situation in which the citizens are facing it that there is a certain court of law that will exist when a permit is granted. The decision board, as far as we're next to the council, will arrive next week. However, before that happens, the council will intervene in the process and have the citizens of the lawsuit, their arrival, and will not provide satisfying answers to the effects it will bring. It's not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u67	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the president to listen to our comments. What we're saying is that we're here with laws that depend on environmental impact, nature protection, organizational protection, an amnesty agreement, the Commission of Environment and Resources. All this legislation is on the hands of the Environment and Resource Ministry. All these legislations. Every single book of law. So when the Environmental and Transport Committee begins to investigate the Environmental and Resource Ministry to provide expert reviews on the individual aspects of this case, the Ministry is avoiding it. Why? That's because the Minister doesn't like it, Mr. President. I ask: Is it so that the Environment Minister would like to keep information, knowledge and professional assessment of such a serious intervention from the General?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u68	President. I don't really have a reputation for expressing my zeal in the conduct of the highest. Environment Minister. It has often been so, President, that questions have been asked to the highest degree. The minister and minister have repeatedly maligned the General by failing to answer or have no knowledge of the seminary, which is a very serious matter, which is actually crystalting in the reply of the Ministry. If it is true that the minister himself is involved in the matter in not wanting to keep the council informed, it is serious. I think the most correct position is to give the case the time it needs and that we get the information that we should get so that we can accept it, otherwise it is clear that the case must be left off the board as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u69	V.E.G. President. I'm here recommending a commission about a bill for temporary reimbursement of music recordings. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Erna Jónsdóttir from the Department of Employment and Development, and Jakob Frímann Magnússon, a spokesman for the Icelandic music industry. The bill is based on the same ideologies as the provision of temporary reimbursement for filmmaking in Iceland, which has been involved in the development of film industry in Iceland in recent years. The bill suggests that reimbursement to the Ministry of Industrial Affairs can be applied at part of the cost of recording music here in a country that has been published and available to the public. If 80% of the cost has been dropped in this country, it will be permitted to repay up to 25% of the cost in the EEA area, the bill will be legal. Commenting on the matter, it was noted that this challenge by musicians is urgent, since the use of sound was greatly reduced in this country. If the bill is legal, Iceland will enjoy a positive special. The committee believes that there is a great deal of progress. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. This is taken in advance by Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. Jón Gunnarsson and Björt Ólafsdóttir were away at the hearing. Kristján L. Möller was absent from the case, but literature is regarded as a 4 mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Besides what is written here, Haraldur Benediktsson, Friðriksson, Kristján L. Möller, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u70	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a board of committees and later committee members... as well as some changes in financial and business proposals. The algorithms deal with the bill to legalize the obligation of pension rights and pension funds as well as with the investment rights of the pension fund. The opinion of the committee is found on panels. 1685 and the resulting changes are found. 1686. I refer to these documents, since I will not review them from word to word but will trace them to the main points. I will then discuss the continuance of the Commission's proposal for the development of the committee, which can be found on a panel. 1727. A respectable president. I first dispute with the committee and the changes suggested by the committee. The committee received a dozen talks on the matter and received a meeting with a representative of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Department of Economic Affairs, the National Department of Pensions, the Organization for Financial Services, the Council of Hf., the Salell of Iceland and Iceland's Secret Bank. The committee also received a meeting of Gylfi Magnússon, chairman of a committee appointed in 2013 to revise the arrangements for the pension fund's investments, and this bill is based on it. Finally, Kristján Loftsson appeared before the committee, but he gave in a review of the bill. The bill suggests changes that increase the range of pension funds to make investments, including in unscrupulous letters and special bonds, and to lend out stocks. It is also suggested that there be more detailed rules about the risk management of pension funds and that the criteria of a so - called rational rule be established. The Icelandic pension fund is very large in Icelandic society and its clean property is now 3,300 billion, with over one and a half domestic product. It is clear, then, that the investment policy of pensions can influence the economy and the standard of living in the country many times. The first item of subject 1st. Section 4. The bill insists that pension funds are guided by financial interests. The committee noted that because of the scope of the pension fund in Icelandic society, their investment policy needs as much as possible to contribute to the improvement in economy and the future living conditions in the country. In my opinion, pension funds also have to distinguish between investments that contribute to real values and improved living values in the country and financial profits that may have little or no connection with the real economy and that in themselves do not create real values, although they may be temporarily raised. The committee also discussed the moral values of investments and considered it proper to understand that pension funds set such standards and informing of them. Pension funds have been authorized to invest in an apartment building, but the bill suggests that this warrant is removed, but biosaturation funds can, in turn, be in real estate. Investment in real estate can have advantages for the pension fund and the pensioner, increase in investment options facilitate risk distribution. Real estates tend to give long - term predictable revenues suitable for a pension fund that meets the long - term commitments of pension. In that case, the investments of pensions in real estate can serve a communityly function to promote the construction of housing and employment facilities and infrastructure. So the committee feels that it is preferable to authorize pension funds to invest in property and that it is unnecessary to separate the introductions of intermediates to these materials. So the committee suggests a change to chapters 5 and 8. The bill that allows pension funds to invest directly in real estate. Real estates are suggested to fall under category E along with objects and share certificates in partners or funds for a joint investment, as per Section 5. Section 5. The bill. So the source will be comparable to the authorization of pension funds to invest in communities on real estate. The bill contains provisions to clear up the sources of pensions in order to invest in special insurance bonds, which are largely published by the institutions of deposit. As per a apart deposit, we would be able to obtain a higher priority in terms of the deposit and thus reduce the protection of our deposit. The priorities of the bank were an important factor in the successful implementation of the old bank population that fell in the fall of 2008. That comment would have been much harder if much of the demands on banks were to be placed in top priority, as special bonds do. Thus, it may be more difficult to deal with future financial traumas that have resulted in large amounts of special bond-settling banks and savings. As a result, the Committee considered it unfortunate to contribute to the publishing of bank and savings in special insurance bonds by paying particularly for the investment of pension funds in them, and to suggest a change that would result in the refusal of pensions to invest in special insurance bonds. It does not, in fact, mean that pension funds will be prohibited from investing in special bonds, but they would be handled as investments in public financial bonds. It should now be noted that following the response to this committee's list of committees, visitors were allowed to discuss this transition regarding their special bonding. I will discuss this after the committee agreed to the evidence presented there. I'll describe it as follows the change in terms of your own trust bonds. Then to the consequences. In accordance with local laws, pension funds are permitted to invest in deduction agreements only to minimize risks. The bill does not anticipate a comparable divorce that only invests in them in order to reduce the risk of pensions. This would be the way to open up their ability to buy derivatives to take risks. The result of contracts is mainly new in risk management and predictiveness. The committee does not consider the role of biofuel funds to be long-term investments to be incompatible with the forecasting process of delegating contracts. Hence, the committee suggests that they continue to be attributed to reducing the risks of the funds. The bill obligates that it is possible to sell the real value of the products not recorded in an organized stock market, but the National Association of Pension and Financial Corporations pointed out that pension funds do not have the same need to sell stocks of the same day as stock markets, as would the commitments of pensions over a long period of time would be made in contrast to the financial funds that had rich inflation obligations. However, on the part of the FEC it was reported that there was a safety issue that would limit the loss of pensions from delinquency. In view of the proposal made by the FEC, the Commission suggests that the divorce will be relaxed by not having to be able to sell the same day if it is possible to renovate or close the same date on the real value. According to the bill, pension funds are forbidden to own more than 15% of the share money in each company or share certificates or parts of their collective investment or department. This limit came to a considerable degree from sources of criticism. It was noted that such a low proportion made the financial expenditure of tasks so difficult, especially in view of the persistent reduction in pension funds. This would require at least seven pensions to finance projects if not for other funding. While it is considered proper for the Committee to counteract excessive contracting of power in Icelandic business life, this is not considered to be an option for a slightly higher ratio than 15%, far from being the dominant. Thus, in view of the above - mentioned criticism, the commission suggests that the proportion increases from 15% to 20%. The bill suggests that pension funds will be authorized to lend short-term financial contributions with certain conditions, including insurance. Pension funds can thus increase their income from stocks by taking credit fees. The loans can pay for some of the loans, including the so - called lack of money. While pension funds can certainly increase their income on credit for the letters, they would accept the risks of paying off the stocks and granting sufficient guarantees to cover the damage. Price loans are generally short - term transactions that have at best indirect links to the physical economy and, in many cases, are involved in pure predictability. The committee believes that participation in such transactions is not compatible with the role of pension funds as long-term investors. In addition, the Commission feels it is unfortunate to pay for the lack of stocks while there is no clearer legal structure for such a trade. So the committee suggests that the warrant will be removed from the bill and the pension funds will thus be prohibited from lending stocks. Other proposals suggested by the Committee that the carer of risk management should have intermediate access to the management of the pension fund will be transferred to 2th paragraphmgr. The following article. The committee thus feels that the instructions apply not only to small pensions as previous budgets of the 3th paragraph. This article will help us. A respectable president. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes that have been toed here in short terms, which are further outlined on panels. 1685 and 1686. Under the heading "September 19 September, " published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. Senators, but the Lingik Anna Sævarsdóttir was absent at the hearing: Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and executive, Brumur Níelsson, Steingrímsson Steingrimsson, Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Sigríður Á. Andersen, Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Willum Þórsson. A respectable president. I now recommend an extension party of the Economic and Business Committee's Committee with a revised proposal for the same bill to legalize the commitment of pension rights and the activities of pension funds. The lead committee, along with the modification form, can be found on deck. 1727. As noted, on September 19, the Committee reviewed the case with the committee, along with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. This led to the committee's hearings and tips from the National Institutes of Pension and the Organization for Financial Services. The committee decided to offer a follow - up opinion and a change to respond to the indications given to it. First, note that paragraph 1. Section 3. The bill goes on to say that pension funds should be appointed by the fund to be responsible for the diagnosis, assessment, monitoring, and control of risks, while the National Department of Pension Funds suggested instead of the words ◯ assessments, monitoring, and operating; they would come: measurement and reporting. This change would be to ensure that it is the responsibility of a whole pension fund and his management to direct a risk rather than one employee. The committee agrees with this argument and proposes such a change. In terms of the unique bond, the Commission's 19th - September embedding proposal suggested c-aided 2. Section 5. 2 mg. B-joins 6. The bill that paid for the investment of pension funds in special bonds fell away, but the purpose of the changes in the committee was to protect banks and savings. The Commission's proposal became critical of the Lands Association of Pension Funds and the financial organisation. The organization considered the bill's regulations important to increase the investment potential of pension funds and to rely on long-term financial funding companies. They felt that it would be more convenient to protect an individual in a way other than to forbid the release of separate bonds or to reduce their version, pointing out some of the steps that are already in force or in preparation. The financial companies'organizations produced calculations showing that pension funds would have little room for further purchase of special financial bonds if the bill wasn't legal. Or it could be a small amount of space for a pension fund to buy a share in banks if a special bond was placed in the same category as other bank stocks. The committee felt that it was right to respond to these views and suggests that the bill would not go away. The committee, however, feels that it is proper to take more careful steps than expected in 2 mg. B-joins 6. the bill by considering that pension funds are permitted to bind up to 10% in the self-sure bonds of the same publisher instead of 15%. The Commission's proposal suggested that the legislation be established on January 1, 2017, but by the National Association of Pension Funds, it was found that a much longer time was needed to prepare the procedure of the law. The committee proposes that the law be accepted instead of on July 1, 2017. A respectable president. Now, I've got a rough line to trace the material of the leading committee, but the motions for the Senate itself are found. Under the end of the committee, publications on September 28 were written on the following day. Councilmen: Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and spokesman, Brumur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Guðmundur the son of Steingrímsson, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, daughter of Sigríður Á. Andersen, Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and Willum Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u71	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct the conversion of authors, with subsequent changes, i.e. about private use copies. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by many guests. At the meeting of the Committee, a team 1st was talked a lot about. The bill. According to this, a new sentence is added at 1 mg. 1 1. The author's shape of a license for a digital copy is restricted to a person who has legitimate authority or access to the source of an entity distributed or made available by the source of its rights. At a meeting of the Committee, representatives of the Ministry expressed the historicity of this law and the intent to confirm what is already considered valid. The same is shown in the comments of the bill on Article 1. which also says that the Ministry considers it important to be tried in Article 11. Authorized that a digital copy for private use will still be confined to the legitimate owner of the original copy. Within the committee, there was some discussion that the meaning of terms might be unclear and that the possible secondary consequences of this law would be added to Article 11. It's a process of authorship in the same form. Then an IMI representative pointed to the International Institute for Information and Expression Freedom, at a meeting of the Committee to a-part 1. The bill would be designed to reduce the tendency of operators, such as coffee shops, restaurants, and coffee grounds. to offer unfashionable access to the Internet because of the fear of thus becoming a possible illegal offense. It also raised questions about whether everyday activities such as getting documents from Web sites, e.g. by saving pictures or videos or by taking a screenshot of a website, you would feel guilty if the person they made did not make sure that they had legitimate access to the source they stored. It is difficult, even impossible, to determine whether certain behaviors contradicted the law. The Commission believes that significant uncertainty exists regarding the interpretation of the directive into Article 1. The bill, and it feels that further and more informed discussions about its expressions and intended its effects and consequences before it becomes legal. Since the purpose of the arrangement has been described as being intended to establish the current rights, the committee feels harmlessly that a law is suspended. So the committee suggests that a-a team 1st par. The bill will fall away, but it will be directed to the Ministry to include further discussions on the provision of contrast views and assessments. The committee's meetings also discussed the funding of the budgets to be addressed to authors for reporting and by b-involved unit 1. The bill, which will be 3rd. 1 1. Author-shaped, it should be paid on a budget each year, and this is a change from the present structure. The Commission emphasizes that this fund is derived from financial support and that it does not reduce cultural donations. In addition to the above, the committee suggests a 2 - mg word change. Sixty-one. Author-shaped and up to the 7th number of 2 mg. 54. g. A writer's song will be removed. This is in harmony with the changes that will take place on Article 11. Author-shaped, if the bill is legal, and the changes to the term usage contained in the bill. In the past, the commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with a proposal for a change. Under no circumstances do all members of the committee write. Yet, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is signed in advance of the use of ideologies. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and what. paritaprevir Einarsson was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion as indicated at 4 mg. 18th par. The Council's Committee for Presidency.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u72	A respectable president. I'm going to make a brief announcement of my advance on the committee's opinion. I'm back on the case, but there's been a big misunderstanding in the discussion, and I'm going to review why it is, but I'm also going to report the good news that the main concern of the matter that occurred during the management of the Committee was solved by dismissing the 1st section. The bill. Thus, many people have the false belief that there is a price to be paid on tape, hard plates, etc. to improve the damage to the authors due to illegal distribution. The strange thing is that makes it hard for people to understand all of this, that this price is to improve authors' damage to legal copying. This sounds funny because it's weird. The reason why I'm warning about this committee is that I find it very strange, to say no more, to use this term, to reform, to any damage the author should have had because people copied e.g. A CD to a tape and uses in the car. The idea is, then, that people would buy a CD, but in order to play the music in the car, they would also buy the tape, which is a ridiculous idea, a completely different idea. That's why it's causing so much misunderstanding. People think that this price has to do with illegal decoupling in the face of a trial in terms of legal mobilization. Besides, it is good to be right that the bill is not intended to extend this price but, rather, to eliminate it. The so - called damage, however, is added to dolphins by taking the money directly from a state fund that is positive, a positive development, but it is worth referring to every occasion because it is a big misunderstanding. That was not evident at 1st. on the case, but it was shown by the Committee's review that a- team 1. Raised a problem, however, it was difficult to grasp the consequences. As many people know in Iceland, however, it is not clear in all the laws that it is illegal to download authors of unscrupulous authors; it is clearly illegal to distribute it into unscrupulous writers. Although there is some disagreement on this legal interpretation, people have been able to, as a matter of fact, assume that it is not illegal to download writers' materials into unscrupulous authors. It was observed in the treatment of the Committee on the matter that this law, a-January 1. g., it would be thought to, like the bill, as intended by the authors of the bill to explain this, to make it illegal to download illegal material. When asked about the legal and right effects of what is called an explanation, there were few answers. Fortunately, the Committee came to the conclusion of felling the 1st team. ... away. This was the indication from IMI mo. and after the discussion of this point, where this is really a little more complicated than the authors of the bill may have planned. This is a factor that is better settled in a better setting, and perhaps not necessarily in relation to, for example. B-a team of the bill. I think I came to my point. But as long as we're talking authorly, I feel I have to use the time I have to discuss at least. A former senator named Tryggvi Bjarnason, who was my great-great-grandfather, i.e. My grandfather's in a straight man's arm. He was a member of the Parliament since 1911,1913. I don't mention it just because he was my great-great-grandfather, I just think it's so fun because we're having a hard time discussing it. I'd like to have this in the Generals' speeches. He left a council 100 years before I attended a council. As I looked up the call, it became evident that he had produced one bill and that it was called Print Factories, which I found interesting to be a pirati and all that and a lot of that information technology. I got a range of information to send me a copy of the bill he presented. It turned out that the bill was designed for every Amtos Library and local library to have one free copy of every book printed in the country. And, as you can imagine when it comes to authorism, people get crazy about such ideas. I would like to read briefly what is presented in the final talk. Jón, son of Ólafsson, who was answering my great-great-grandfather. He said, with President's permission: I hope there's a truth in Ísafold today about this matter. Those senators who want to deliver the entire edition of the book here on the land of felines will pay this contraption of votes, while others will not. I wanted to, since I won't be running again for the assembly in the next term and will soon have my last talk this afternoon, to arrive at. This shows that when it comes to authors and authors' rights, they have always been so worried, that all these changes will go from some industrial dead. It just doesn't happen. It's not like that. Of course, changes are sometimes very difficult, but although today a library of books is receiving today, not all the books in this country have been placed on cat - nosed. It's a fact, a respectable president. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I'm going to finish that speech with this reminder from my forefather, who I thank for the cooperation in this case, but in other ways, people are waiting to consider their criticism of Pirata's course in authoritarian affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u73	A respectable president. On Sunday, I'm flying to the United States at the UN General Assembly. So this is my last conference in the season. Since I'm not running for the election, I'd like to use this opportunity to say goodbye and thank you. From large changes in life, I have learned that the noteworthy, interesting, and important things in each experience are not necessarily seen until some time later. So at this point, I don't know exactly what I'll have learned about life and the world of my time here. But I can say right away that I look forward to looking back, for experience here has been incredibly expensive and, in fact, invaluable. I already see that. The other thing is, I'll miss the people I've been working with here at the General but also the people I haven't exactly worked with but have had the privilege of getting to know. Some may think it's strange, but one of the things I've enjoyed doing in the Senate is reading Congress cases and enforcing reviews. I don't think many people will see the potential for oceanism in the Generals Congress documents and particularly the internal issues. So it's been a lot of air when I've been on a supposed vacation that I'm looking into the general web for entertainment. As much as I'm more concerned with not being a senator in my next term, I'm sorry that I'm going to record this even just to train my platoon to find its way in the jungle that comes to you if you don't know how about the Senate papers. It's actually just one thing that I'm going to need, that's access to committee meetings, not that it's their conversations between members, but their conversations with guests. With Congress experience in the books, I can say that I am quite well prepared to study the vast majority of cases at the council, except for this one point. I have suggested once or twice that these meetings will usually be opened, but now that I'm asking to become a civilian after being a senator, I see better than ever how much it would remember the citizen's ability to get into the situation under consideration here. In fact, we gave it a bill during an ongoing assembly on a threshing floor. 882. I hope, and in fact, that other senators will promote it during the next term. A respectable president. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and of the beloved members of the Generals. I'd like to thank all of you for this time, for your cooperation and society during this most excellent period. I would like to thank a respectful president in particular and wish for his welfare. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u74	President would like to join in and thank you for his point of view. A senator to the president, the Generals and the Generals. The President would like to say, though we're working together. The senator had not been exaggerating far in comparison with other members of the council, which the president has cooperated with in his long history, it has been extremely good and unscrupulous. In particular, the president would like to specify one thing that might be exemplary for another's reason. Senators, that's when the President calls you. Then a senator will always answer with the words: 'How do you know, Mr. President? This might be followed by more people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u75	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-07-166.u76	But the president would like to speak these words. A senator and his family give him breakfast and special instruction in whatever he or she does.
