ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u1	A respectable president. I hope so. Of course, the question is, How does a respectable president predict that the council will continue? Here we are on Monday. By the end of last week, you were wondering what you're going to do with it. There is still no list of how people will conduct this council. It's important that we know. We're on our way to the election. It's working. That means people are away. This means that people need to consider other matters. They need to be able to organize themselves, which is now a spontaneous requirement for the general population. So I seek answers from a respectable president to see if there is any information on the issues of the greater nature or whether the debate is continued among the council groups on these topics or what is going on here in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u2	A respectable president. So it is that the General Work Programme has expired. The campaign has been launched here on October 29th. We have received information on the fact that, as members of the House of Congress and the Head of the House of Governments, there are some outlines of the next few days' work programme. While this situation remains and there has not been any such strategy, the directors and ministers of the administrations come almost every news period with a new council case, a new matter to strike themselves as knights to save anyone who is in pain in the community, etc. Because they're going to finish some of these cases in a few days before the election. This is a laughful attitude at the Council, and it's a disgrace. I am stressing that the president of the General Assembly is supporting the challenge that we will be able to get enough results in the work for the next few days so that we can complete the Senate work and prepare for the General election. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u3	A respectable president. I'll have to agree with the last two o'clock. Congress on the fact that the present situation is totally unacceptable. We're here in a hurry to attend a meeting that no one else will ever meet. Where are the senators? What are we here for? There are new issues coming in every day. Big social security revisions, and I don't know what. It is only hoped that we will ask, "Where's the plan? Are we going to finish all this? Are we going to stay here until the next term? May or April? Perhaps it would be better to announce to a new council if the government insists on moving forward, and then she will have to answer for it. That's all it means. It's completely unpleasant. I hope to the highest. The president agrees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u4	Mr. President. Yes, I have to agree with my partners that there is an unacceptable situation here. This may be what we have been discussing, members of the U.S. government, is that here we are at work day by day, hosting congregational duties, also in committee positions. However, a relaxed attendance is in which many re-elections have been attempting to take a seat to participate in the next term. Meanwhile, we're not doing what's in here. But, of course, it is most unacceptable that every day new and large bills, or controversies, appear in the media, where, as mentioned earlier, current ministers are going to make a move and show up for the game of elections. It may seem that we in the position of government are in danger of doing so. But this is no doubt a number of fine cases, big cases, such as the social security issue that will not be solved at some moment from the council. It's just not appropriate about such a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u5	A respectable president. It is boring to continue with this, but it must only be clear that when the government decides to continue elections some time later in the autumn, an argument must be made and ashamed to get a date. Then the date comes, we need to fight and be ashamed to know when the Senate will be finished to know if the election will be at this time or not. There is good reason to be suspicious of these matters, unfortunately. That's the experience we've had to accept over the years. It doesn't work with democracy, with voters, with respectable presidents, that men don't show more ambition to get this straight. We need to be able to know how we are going to conduct ourselves. We're on our way to the election. That governments use elections in a way that the date of the end of the council is used in some form, well, you wonder, used for political purposes. It's totally disturbing, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u6	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a proposal to conspire on the confirmation of Iceland and the European Union's agreement on agricultural trade. This deal was made last fall. Then, in the farm paper under the title "Real Strike, he was promptly discussed, making it feel safe to believe that many people would have to drive their home in the first place. It was the cover of the September 2015 Yearbook just after the announcement of this agreement. It refers to interviews with various farmers, both chicken farming, pork production, as well as those with beef production, and then those with the local community's spokesmen. Among other things, by permission of presidents, Jón Magnús Jónsson, a poultry mother, is quoted as saying: ▪ The concept of increased delinquency on customs of imported chicken meat is quite a battle for the producers of chicken beef in Iceland. [...] Tolllar's quantity out of this thousand tons is tied to a dollar number, and I haven't heard anything about it being changed beyond what it is today. I'm afraid the producers will be very serious about what they're doing, even packing up and quitting the operation. On this report of September 24 of last year's November: The agreement between Iceland and the European Union on agrienvironment schemes surprised most people and others. At the same time, officials of the import store have rejoiced, but many of these treats still seem surprising. It was referred to in a future article in the story. I'm back here from this cover story, with the permission of a president: ▪ This is serious news to those articles, and I believe that governments have neglected to fully assess the impact of the contract. The chicken farm and the pork production were being referred to here. I'm going on: ▪ Sama has much to do with the production of beef. I felt that it was the government's will to promote this branch but not to take it to an even greater extent to a foreign land, to be told by Sindri Sigurgeirsson, chairman of the BI. It calls attention to the government's announcement of a new customs contract to discuss new market agreements. This was actually something we talked about before the weekend when the contract was discussed on Thursday or Friday. Then we would address the question to government spokesmen as to whether there was an unbreakable link between the market agreements and those toll agreements. There were no clear answers to that question. What we can guess, however, is that some horse weddings took place between the Independence Party and the forward party. The Independence Party had stressed the loss of this tax agreement, but the forward party had its focus on the livestock contract. I have to say, chief. Mr President, these things are not meant to come first. Each contract should be evaluated on its own terms, and we should discuss it on our own terms. My suggestion is, and our emphasis in the left movement ◯ Green supply has been on this discussion, that this case should be postponed. The confirmation of this agreement should be postponed. Although the case has received several discussions during the summer, it is, in this respect, better than speeding the matter up through the council as it was planned for us, some of the factors will still be examined before it is resolved. This is what I want to emphasize at the beginning of my case. Then on the subject. There are certain factors that we must look to when considering the agricultural issues. I've lost some of the evidence I had earlier, but it shouldn't be my fault, I think I know pretty much what I wanted to say. There are some major factors that we must look to as we consider fixing the agricultural product and customs, both in the national and national agricultural industry and on the landy slopes. What, then, is our primary concern? Yes, we would like to have wholesome food available to the people. This may be a command number one, creating a system that ensures wholesome food on an invitation. They don't give anything. If we go around the world, then such a warning is not offered. It is a search of land on a whole range of beds that offer more wholesome food than Icelanders do. Less antibiotics are found in store meat than in any other place where I'm at least aware of. That's what I would have thought was a resource in itself. There have come many, even supporters of these changes, saying, "Yes, it is true, but we must trust the consumers." Indeed, consumers will choose the wholesome product if it is offered along the side of a product that is truly of poor quality in this regard. I don't think so. I don't think that's gonna happen. What is going to happen is that poor people will buy what is cheapest. If a pig's vine is available on one side, and a wholesome cabbage is planted within the land, then the poor man shall not choose the pig's cabbage. I'm afraid that's going to happen. I'm afraid this is going to happen in the meat industry too. Do people know where the cheap chickens that are being invited in the United Kingdom are from? Do you think they're all from the UK? No. It told me a nice friend who is now known for other things than not wanting free flow of goods and services to be concerned about what it was like to be dropping in on himself and his children and to mention special chickens and said that the chickens who were the cheapest in the UK have come from Thailand and China. The fact is that food quality monitoring is much less pronounced than it does in Europe. But these supplies would probably come in here too. Is this what we want? Do we not want to put up some defenses for ourselves and our children so that these are primarily wholesome food provisions? That should be our objective, of course. It is not our goal to try to bring us into harmony, down into less unwholesome foods. Is that your goal? No. That could hardly be the goal. We're going to try to protect the shopshelfs in Iceland so that they can be found primarily in wholesome foods. It is the goal of the lawgiver to set aside and not to look to the other, to pursue the interests of certain storekeepers, not to run the interests of the store, as humans have done here in other ways. There are plenty of spokesmen here when it comes to defending the companies, but when it comes to protecting individuals, children, the poor people, there have been at times a lack of advocates of such views. This is our goal, number one, to make sure that healthy food is available. But that's not enough, we want to secure wholesome food at cost. Of course we want to do the same. Of course, we would like to contribute to the advantage of the food prices. We were discussing milk and milk products the day. Then, in the past few years, customers of commercial companies looked beyond the fact that the prices of milk and milk products in Iceland have fallen to real value, real value, not in terms of, real value, much more, by 20%. Don't you have to look to that? Do we not need to look out for arrangements that will provide health - care provisions at a cost? Of course, we should look to it, whether in the milk or in the elsewhere. This is what we would like to share together, wholesome food, and practicality. The third aspect I would like to mention that must be our goal is to promote food security and sustainability to the extent possible. Here we are looking into the future. It is not a noble thought to begin moving cows and cattle in airplanes between countries. We have another thing with the seats in the airplanes and the space in airplanes than we do with cows and cattle and pigs and chickens. We're supposed to deliver people and the necessary product. We are to help produce agrienvironments in our environment. This is what is included in the term food security, that society will become self - sufficient in these matters. What does that mean? Then we need to make sure that there are people in these production sectors who are working to produce food in the closer environment. Then we need to give serious warnings, as shown on the cover of the farm magazine, which says that the deal we're talking about here is a battle, and it makes us confident that many people will need to live. Don't we have to listen to this? That warning? What is reality in this case, and how accurate it is, is what is expressed in the quotations of the chairman of the local community, Sindri Sigurgeirsson's son, when he says that we are on this side of moving jobs abroad. That's what we're doing. Export jobs to abroad. He's not the only one to say that. I'd like to quote here on a panel of opinions approved by the Labor Society Progress, which is also from the late fall of 20 October 2015. It is an organization with thousands of employees in its union, probably up to 33,000 people working in the food industry in Iceland. They say, with President's permission: A new cross-country agreement between Iceland and the European Union on agricultural trade and mutual delinquency raises many questions regarding the future of agriculture in Iceland and the secondary activities in the food industry and agriculture. In the area of forward vision, there are some powerful food companies that give dozens of employees work. It is evident that their activities will be greatly shaken by government policy changes in farm customs. Food industry in Iceland is one of the largest industrial subsections with about 17% of the total industry, except for the fish industry. Last year, some 4,000 workers were employed in food production, which most people share in the European Union of Iceland. The forward - looking criticism of the government's consultation with the labor movement, which has great interest in caring for the number of activities at risk, will be confirmed by the General Assembly. Progress calls for a government assessment of its impact on agriculture and food industry workers to change customs protection. It is absolutely irresponsible by the government to confirm the change from the Council unless there is any basis for the impact. When we discussed this same document, that same synopsis made last spring, I also read from this conclusion. I had contacted forward - looking leaders to ask them as many others, what was their view of the matter. They told me that I would read their conclusions, that it contained a warning. And I read it up. It's still on. What I wanted to say and say before: Of course, it's better not to have fallen into agreement with the case last spring, to give it at least some weeks and months to consider, but it's just not enough to do. We need to take a closer look. We're here to focus on our future interests. This is all about so many things. It's about ensuring wholesome food at an all - time gathering chairs in Iceland, for low income and income bills. allur of them. Same food for everyone. Second, we want to make sure that we have wholesome food at a cost. We want to create an arrangement, such as the milk industry. ensuring milk products at cost. It's been successful. That's what we're supposed to think about. But both have to go together. It's not just a matter of getting some food, it's a good, wholesome food. Third, we are to promote food security, which will make Iceland sustainable as possible for food production. Of course it doesn't work in all of Iceland because of the way we're in the countryside, where we live, we always have to import a lot of food to Iceland, and we're moving something out. But we need to consider this. And fourth, we need to look to the job. Of course, we need to listen to the union members who are asking us not to take steps that are likely to rob people of their employment and employment in the food industry. Should we not take that warning seriously and ask for it? Why don't we listen to the Farmer Association? Why don't we listen to these Member States of Iceland? Are their warnings serious? Under them, I sure want to take it. Finally this, the highest. President: For us, this is a step forward. We're a small people. We're 330 you're talking about. ... aman. We're making a deal at 4,400,500 million people in the market. It doesn't matter what happens on that market. But for us in Iceland, 330 yous. We should take seriously the warnings of those who work there and care more than any other person for this trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u7	A respectable president. It is, in effect, inevitable. An opposing senator finds a speech I don't agree with more than this fine speech that my dear friend was giving correctly in this regard. Hv. A senator confused out a number of factors in order to find support for the isolationism that the left movement wants to produce in agriculture everything else. He exploits the sustainable concept to justify turning Iceland into some kind of fortified island where nothing has been exported and nothing has been brought in. The idea behind this deal is that agriculture is a industry that needs not only protection but also progress. She's got to be able to pick up another market. Therefore, the contract negotiates to-do with other countries, and in turn, we give the import right to an import that makes it easier for us to return it. We're making an application for Icelandic production available around the world, scurry, butter, lamb, a custom product with Icelandic characteristics, and therefore we can support the development of employment. The European Union of Iceland has been calling for years, opening up trade contracts with other countries for exporting Icelandic agricultural products, so Iceland does not always accept agriculture as a dying industry, but has made possible for it to grow, land management jobs can increase. That seems to be the biggest threat in the head. Senator. Then he's moving the fear stories he's been carrying so many times that a foreign menu is so hopeless that it can't be eaten. A few years ago, he said that there was nowhere to get soft eggs abroad because eggs are generally so harmful in Europe. All of this has been driven many times. We will always have the authority to set health guidelines. Nothing here will stop you from doing that. It's just talking about thinking about a large amount of Icelandic agriculture, giving him a chance to grow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u8	V.E.G. President. I wanted to ask you what. A senator if he knows how many eggs were found in Icelandic shopshelfs, just tell me. I'd love to hear it. It would also be nice to hear him chat a little bit about whether he thinks it's wrong as an veterinary surgeon and those on health care believe that he is an important resource, i.e. Icelandic agricultural production. Does he find it frightening to point out that antibiotics in meats on the European markets are many times those found here? Aren't these realistic things that the Icelandic lawgiver has to look into? Isn't that right? Don't we have to look to that? Does he not also feel that the market market of some 330,000 people is worth a pound [500 million kg], not the same as in meat, but a prince's? Because the change may be crucial in one case and may not be measured in the other. Don't you have to look to that? Then only on the use of words. Hv. A senator told me that I had confused a number of factors. I didn't. I added various components because these issues are truly intertwined. We are talking about Icelandic agricultural production and should look to all the areas in which we live, the wholesome food, the prices, the sustainable, and the other, whether we are willing to attack the system changes that will contribute to the migration of jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u9	A respectable president. English translation is important and is a resource, as is little drug use. All of these are things where we have to go. This information is not readily available; it is broken down in a cage, e.g. Food refinements are not guaranteed. It's our own self-inflicted hell. I went to Crona the other day and bought pork. It said: "It's Icelandic pork. " So it was with small letters below: Original: Spain. It is an Icelandic self - sufficiency and has nothing to do with any international agreements. We need to set a clearer standard for ourselves. We also need to discipline our own production. We need to make it easier for our own producers to share information that they are doing well. We need to increase competition between them, so that the price for good is high than the price of the more expensive drugs used. Hence, the media should also be equipped to make sure that equipment is obvious, all can keep an eye on the well - being of animals. This is part of a new thought in Icelandic agriculture, i.e. to eliminate the sllumbull methodology as a class. The senator has been speaking, moving all into one pot, one price for all, no market peculiarity, no competition between centers, no competition between the manufacturers. It carries death, reduces jobs, reduces the potential for parishion tools for Icelandic agriculture, counteracts the potential for the perpetuities, special sources, specific procedures. That's what's important, to cut off the skunk protection, to increase competition, and to make sure that there's a great deal of open competition between different manufacturers and different companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u10	V.E.G. President. There was a man who would like to move Chinese chickens to our house for food, without ever getting a chance to see what's on the menu. This is what people are complaining about in Britain, that food and its origin are not visible, where it comes from, whether the chickens come from China or Thailand or where they come from. From what kind of people they come, etc. I, however, completely agree with that. paritaprevir Árni's aged Árnason Páll said that all such things are to be visible and accessible. Monitoring in Icelandic food production needs to be greatly improved. We need to fix it, where the pot is broken, where we should, of course, look at our eyes, whether in the pork production, the chicken production, or anywhere else. But we have to let the commercial industry enjoy truth. That's what we have to do. We have a very important resource to protect and protect. That's what I'm talking about. If men think that's a lot of conservativeness, I don't think so. I think we should be crazy about this, protecting what's really good in our production. I reiterate that we should look to the work too, listen to the labor movement, listen to those who handle the job, and we should admit that, if true, with e.g. Salmon eggs, that we've managed to avoid getting it to the camp. It's just a fact. We should listen to the veterinary surgeons in Köldur and elsewhere who warn us, who point out what we have. Is that wrong? Is that a point of view? [[The president calls.]] No. This is the future. You see, this is the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u11	A respectable president. First, I would like to continue with the discussion just in terms of quality production and the future. When it comes to agricultural production, I want to agree with it. Congress on the general production of Icelandic produce is good. I believe that quality production has a very good future, has a very strong place in the market, and is also made even to compete with other products. I'd like to say that it's not at all the right way to ensure continued benefits of Icelandic agricultural production from banning competition with other agricultural production. I don't think it's the best way to make sure that the Icelandic consumers have a good taste for good products, and especially if they don't have a choice about something else in front of them. I just wanted to get that straight from the above discussion. Although the agreement presented here appears to include a substantial change, a large increase in import and export from what is important, the import to the European Union agreement is much in line with the import already available because of the lack of Icelandic markets. This may not apply to the cheeses, but the import of the meat in the Icelandic market has been increasing because of the fact that the Icelandic agricultural product has not escaped. When it comes to import, the contract this is why there will be very little change for the Icelandic agricultural market or food market, except for the cheese market. Then I'd like to give a witness to the marvelous example we have when we open to import vegetables into Iceland. It was certainly a very big step when the import of vegetables into Iceland and Iceland and the production of Icelandic vegetables was introduced into a very dangerous competition with imported goods, so you use expressions that have been used in the discussion. The result was, not death and demon to producers, but an opportunity for Icelandic producers to focus on quality products and market them separately as Icelandic production with very good results. Of course, it did not mean that this product was replaced by agrienvironment schemes, rather than other agriculture in other countries, which are generally supported in some way. But what happened was that the product was taken out of customs protection, i.e. It was given the opportunity to compete for prices, quality, and background with other products. It turns out that the Icelandic consumers are not crazy, they had taste for goods and chose Icelandic products. I don't see that there is any reason to distrust consumers when it comes to other types of food, that the Icelandic consumers can't find a difference between Icelandic and foreign cheese or Icelandic lamb or foreign. You've noticed how foreign imports began that the Icelandic consumers hardly want to admit that it's the same bird when it comes to the taste. Therefore, I feel that the step taken here to open up the import of foreign foods is safe and actually the beginning of making Icelandic agriculture more useful, increasing their expertise, and making more of a careful product. I think it'll change the agriculture to the target and that it will improve it. He is active in competition from industry, which, unfortunately, has often been in a high - risk situation. It was shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir The Ögmundur - year - old son of Jónasson, who spoke earlier, was afraid that if an Icelandic grocery store was invited for a competition, there would be an inexpensive competition with Icelandic foods and that poor people would be forced to choose the cheap and inferior foods. I agree that there is a problem in food production, production, distribution, and consumption across the world as food production becomes more industrial and widespread and, of course, we see a difference in cheap industrial products produced in large quantities and distributed, and on the other hand, in high - quality products that are organic and sold at high prices. I ask myself, " Is it our job at the Council to protect the Icelandic consumers from choosing wrong choices? ' Is it our job to keep ugly clothes from being moved into the country? Is it our job to forbid alcohol to be sold in Iceland because for someone, alcohol is toxic? I say no, Mr. President, I trust the Icelandic consumers perfectly who have eaten food from the moment they were born to choose groceries and to agree with anyone who has spoken about the opportunity to add meanings of food, to improve source markings and to make Icelandic producers and those who produce good things easier to mark their products in line with quality. I'm not worried that Icelandic consumers are so stupid that they'll unstuff their product. On the contrary, the choice of the Icelandic consumers has proved to be highly taste - hungry. In this discussion, there have been times when the agreement has suggested that Iceland's food security is at stake. I just want to come into it because food security is important to every nation, nation, country. I just want to go into the concept of food security. What does that mean? It means safe access to food. Then I'd like to point out that Iceland is one of the world's greatest food-making countries. Our supply of food is really infinite. We're producing seafood and moving into a huge style. It also became evident in the world wars of the last century, particularly in the earlier but also in the second, that when the Icelanders had to negotiate with other countries for import and export, they did not sign a food import to ensure European food security, on the contrary, the contracts always went out to import foreign oil, coal or so on account of the fact that this small nation on this continent is probably more food security than any other region of the earth, all roads in Europe. This does not mean that we have a constant and certain access to sugary yoghurts or lamb chopts or some type of food. Food security is driven by the fact that we have access to food over our heads and that we have a distribution system that works for them. I'm not worried about us there. But beyond that, I believe that international agriculture will be strengthened by reaching a larger market. This is a key to this discussion because those who are ambivalent at these agreements, those who are sktopish at the import and export of agricultural products and food always give themselves in some way that Icelandic agriculture will be subject to competition, that the European agriculture will be cut off in exports, outlets, that Icelandic agriculture cannot be fully available, and the price of a good price on foreign markets is at hand. You see, I allow myself to be a very special optimist. I'm glad this is a fairly large step, which would certainly be larger, in a tax-free export of Icelandic agriculture. On the contrary, I believe that Icelandic agriculture has a very high potential, especially in a special luxury market in other countries. With the support of exports, we actually have another support for Icelandic agricultural production that will no longer have to build everything in the domestic market. He's certainly swinging, depending on the fashions, but even now, depending on the number of foreigners visiting us at any given time, so I'm especially celebrating this contract on the exporter because I believe he will lead to an Icelandic agriculture campaign to tighten and improve his character. Nor can I enter the discussion without discussing just the words that have fallen by. Congress on Icelandic commerce, especially those who have spoken against this agreement. It has been suggested that the Icelandic trade is some kind of public enemy, that only the distribution of food is bad, and that it is merely to force producers into the price to get on the table of consumers. I think it's out of thin air. I think it's a very impressive statement. I have reason to warn that thought because Icelandic commerce is like any other service in Iceland, it is for the service of the public and the Icelandic consumers. As a result of the pressure to expand the import of the Icelandic market, it has been particularly important in increasing the variety and resources of the Icelandic consumers. It has been very rare if there have been a number of cases where Icelandic production has been promoted by the market. I don't know that the import of mayonnaise has been bitten by the Icelandic mayonnaise sector. Prior to the weekend, in the first part of this discussion, health and risk of unhealthy foreign food were discussed quite a bit. I just want to get back to the fact that although we live on an island, and although we've not been bringing in much of the food, much of what we've had around the Icelandic agricultural product is now not that all food in Iceland has come up in the country and that we haven't brought in food, because much of the population lives outside Iceland and consume foreign food. A large proportion of people seem to do so without a specific health injury. There is no particular reason to believe that the Icelandic consumers will be affected differently. It has also been shown with the import of food from the European Union produced under the same health standards, under the same values as in the EEA regulations as the EEA Convention, that consumption of these products has not resulted in a number of Icelands taking on the beach at all. Icelanders have also had excellent experience in tasteling foreign food on their travels abroad. Visitors to the Foreign Affairs noted that the risk for transmission of infectious diseases is much less appropriate for human visitors than for the production of food and the growing number of exports between countries. At the end, I would like to say that we live in Europe. We're part of the EEA. When it comes to health centers in consumers, they are very strong and likely stronger in Europe than in other parts of the world. Iceland, the Icelandic market, and the production are all under the control of this strong system. This contract is between Iceland and the European Union, so it is a contract for a mutual transport of food in the area, really within the same system. This is not the import and export of different regions, but is the transport within the local market and for the regular work. It is of importance that we are not opening on toll free imports from distant countries where all other standards apply. On the contrary, we are making sure that the import of groceries into Iceland comes from countries where production is good and monitoring is good. Of course, surveillance in the European Union is good. We know about this so well ourselves, and Icelandic producers in the fishing industry are quite well aware of it because these rules and requirements of marine products have doubled without increasing the quantity of the products. I believe, therefore, that in this export, there is a potential for Icelandic agriculture as well as in this country's competition. The person listed here agrees with the opinion of a greater part of the State Department. I do so because the conclusion of the committee's opinion is primarily to recommend that the contract be agreed, although there are some things to be torn up that were presented to visitors and in the panels. The first element of the Commission's opinion is to recommend that the contract be agreed. I don't think this is a final deal. In many ways, I would have liked to see it more extensive, both for Icelandic consumers and for Icelandic farmers, a trend that will likely take longer. I look forward to seeing those times.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u12	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a number of interesting talks. I'd kind of like to start my answer by asking you why. A senator, if any. A member of the United States has not been able to discuss it in his talk, but there has been a considerable discussion of the connection between a customs agreement with the European Union and the agricultural legislation we discussed last week, but it seems to each member of the two issues involved. I have reasoned that although the issues are related and, in some ways, there may be different aspects of a similar matter, there is not an unbreakable relationship between them, i.e. Already it's time to take care of the cases. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator would see the need to resolve these issues at this council. On the other hand, I have to say for a talk. A senator told me that I thought his interpretation was a bit important, and it was kind of a fantasizing about our attitude toward the Icelandic store. I've at least criticized myself for feeling in this contract looking primarily to commercial and commercial interests, but not too much looking to social and environmental factors. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: thinks so. In our discussion of the matter, does the senator agree that these factors are sufficiently understood?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u13	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. So I'm trying to answer the questions that are directed to me, I don't think there's any particular connection between this toll agreement and the livestock in payment at the council. Of course, it's the law either way. However, they deal with the same environment. They deal with both the Icelandic agricultural and its environment as well as with the European consumers and their environment. So the issues are not related. In addition, there are elements in the domestic agreements that are directly presented to work as a counterweight to this customs agreement, which I would like to say is going far too far in terms of zeroing out the competitive potentials of the customs agreement. No, I've never claimed that these two belonged together. It doesn't change that I, along with my comrades in the bright future, had a contraband proposal for the hardware deals where I didn't count them ready. But I think there's good reason to accept these customs right away, especially to help and contribute to the eviction, the welfare of Icelandic agriculture or what to say. I think I have to come to the second question directed to me about the future environmental enemy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u14	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's important to get that out of this discussion. A senator believes that there is a connection between this synopsis and a legal body, how they relate to it. I agree with what. At least we agree that these matters need not be resolved. So I'll add the questions to what? I'd like to ask a few more questions. One is the other. A senator said that the vast majority of people in abroad had a meal without a health problem, I think it was pretty much what it was. A senator said. I think it's usually right. However, it is estimated that the incidence of foodborne infections in Iceland is lower than in many other countries. It even came. ... toprescriptionsfrom a pathologist. Counts 'em out. Is that not something that we need to consider? It also appeared before reason. The Foreign Affairs Commission that it simply lacks funding to extract samples from food in Iceland, including the imported. Counts 'em out. A senator would not at least need money to be assured that a sample can be taken? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to argue that there are infections in all foreign foods, but it was found by a Centerist that these incidences of foodborn infections were higher abroad, thereby less in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I guess I can't get over more.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u15	A respectable president. I'll try to talk fast so I can get over it. I mean, there's a reason to be assured, and if you need to put together some additional food checks for sale in Iceland, whether it's foreign or foreign. I can agree that there are probably higher infections in certain areas and even in the European Union than in Iceland, but this doesn't mean they're not heard in Iceland. Of course, infections in food are a general problem. Iceland is not a magical power against that. As food production becomes more industrial and larger, and it has also happened in Iceland, the more and more emphasis it needs to be on track. I can totally agree with that. I can't see, however, that it has anything to do with this contract to allow more than one import that is in a very similar roleum and the current import. In terms of the environment, I agree that the environment needs to be examined for food. Visitors to the committee simply said that stopping meat would reduce the environmental steps of the committee five times. It does not necessarily have everything to do with the production of food. There is little or none of Icelandic foods that are not produced in any way by import or complete drug free. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, I say, we must trust the consumers, that we may choose quality. [[The president calls.]] I'm not worried he doesn't know what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u16	Madam President. These are interesting discussions on customs. I don't completely agree with the last speaker. That's for sure. I would have been interested in hearing what candidates think of these tax agreements. Their attitude has not generally been reflected in these discussions. It would have been interesting to have a conversation with them, since it has been true of some independents who have spoken that they are most in favor. I'd like to start with what was being said, but I was questioned, that all food from abroad was more and less contaminated, and people were doing just fine and all that. There is a very interesting article entitled "Presidents of thirteen EU Member States peed plant eaters. " It reviews the concerns of the use of insecticides and pollutants in agriculture in many countries, where such chemicals have led to the risk that these are likely to affect the health of people who eat crops, where such chemicals are used for production. This is the Roundup that many Icelanders may have heard of, and government agencies have used considerably. It should naturally be forbidden. It's fucking toxic. However, in May of this year the European Union delayed to vote to confirm its prohibitions on its use within the EU. This contains glycosate which is the most used plant toxin in the European agriculture system. It's a business, of course, nothing more. In 2011 the use of these glycospheres is 650 thousand tons. The previous year, the value of the sale was about 6.5 billion dollars. There are huge interests in the hands of the people who produce these things. It has been said that it may double between 2011 and the end of the next year. In 2012, about 85% of genetically modified grain was said to have built up the tolerance of these vegetation - destroying products. It has also entered the European Union of increasing numbers of applications to grow genetically modified grains. That's one of the key elements of the TITP-tollabra talk to the United States. Observer published some secret documents that have been in the discussion where the EU was offering a huge toll discount, resulting in U.S. beef on the easy way into the European Union. Like those who know something about this matter, it is known largely by means of genetically modified grain code. Friends of the earth are an organization that has made this matter matter matter matter matter. Their figures indicate that glycosate was found in the urine 44% of samples taken in 18 European countries. It's mostly from Roundup, but it's also some other stuff. The European Union does not open to these numbers, i.e. about the quantity of greenhouse gases being used in the EU countries. Gestofosate is the most common component of agriculture in the United Kingdom and is also about 35% of the weed spills used in Denmark. Thus, in Germany some 4.3 million acres [43 million ha] annually or less than 40% of the agricultural land have been sprayed. In fact, there is an enormous quantity of dangerous substances. It was in April that a urine sample study was published in volunteers, members of the EU, where 48 members of the 13 EU countries were included and obtained urine samples. Most were from Belgium, France, and Germany. In all the visions examined, this toxin was found. An average of 1.7 micrograms of glycosate was found in the urine of each senator, which is 17 times higher than allowed. in a drinking water in Europe. The proportion varied, from five times higher than in drinking water and up to 42 times higher. The highest glycosat ratio was in Lithuania, Spain, and Croatia, the lowest in Finland, Ireland, and Italy. The conclusion was, in effect, that the food the senator consumes in the Council cafeteria contains this considerable quantity. Another German study, Urinale 2015, had 2 thousand samples. It revealed that 99.6% of the subjects had more than 1% of glycosate compared to the reference target in drinking water in their bodies. There's also German beer. In one of Germany's most famous beers, the amount was up to 30 micrograms per litre, or 30 times the amount normally counted in water. In a 2004 study of 48 farmers, their wives, and 80 children in the United States, the contents of these filth were much more detected than those in the council. It is clear, then, that what we have been proud of in Iceland, that we have practically harmless healthy production, must be important. With this, like any other, it's a growing health problem. That has even been true. Observed by the surgeon general. Of course, we would have to do such a study in Iceland, and it is long time and would be very interesting to study both those who travel extensively and those who travel very little and who eat most of the domestic production. I think it's the real standard that would come up and maybe show the state of Icelandic agriculture the way it really is. Food infections were also referred to here. We can't overlook the point of surgeons, etc. that states that we travel through the huge years very much of the food we have on our daily meals, fruits, and vegetables. Like I said in a talk a week ago on the livestock, maybe we'll have apples from China, and they're pretty pretty on the vegan market. But there is something that keeps them beautiful. They travel thousands of miles. They don't all come to us on the same day, but they stay beautiful for a long time. These are delicate products, as we know. It must have been something if they could travel thousands of miles and still be so beautiful. I'm not always sure where the food I eat every day comes from. Then there are the negative effects and the eco effect of transport. You should be able to trust that the food you have in front of you is produced under the best conditions, without poison, and without sickness. I'm sure you'll find out. This is a growing problem in the world. The maintenance of food supplies causes food infections to come on the surface even more than ever. It is said that in the United States alone, about 48 million disease cases and hundreds of thousands of hospitalisations and many of these are caused by germs from food. I don't think it's irresponsible to argue that all those who go abroad and eat foreign food or live there live a good life, etc. and that's why there's nothing dangerous about moving in. Not all food is contaminated or over pollution stations. But this certainly is something we should not fan, not like anything else. This also mentioned a lack of meat that would have resulted in an increase in import and would have little effect on the market, although the import was increased. I don't agree with that. Of course, there must be things to do when they move into competition and not know how the arrangements are, since they do not have the same rules. Let's figure it out. Fortunately, we made rules regarding the welfare of animals. We expect cows to walk out in summer. I don't think it's anything, and I'll be corrected if anyone knows better, a country other than Norway. We place our farmers far more rigid conditions than countries we say are allowed to move away. There are reverses, too. It is neither fair nor consistent if it is to be the result. All analyses of these consequences are missing. It's morning light. It's the Farm Group alone that comes up with an analysis. The Ministry is bringing it all to completion, and it's done badly, and I'm going to let me say. There is nothing about the consequences of this for the Icelandic agriculture, either for the scattered or over the heads. I don't think there's any way to settle this case without having it. I sure hope we can see with this. Tolls are said to have no influence or little effect on farmers, but this did so elsewhere, e.g. correspondent in Denmark The result was very, very bad. It went bankrupt, especially in the white meat. Two hundred families went under, I've read somewhere. It was primarily because the price for milk and pork was so low. It is not likely that this will be the result of the complete entry of customs. I don't think it's moral. We are buying even contaminated meat or other foods under circumstances that we have no idea of. We can't guarantee a source. There's also one thing that's not okay. This is something I can't at least agree with. And then there's this, too, as I've already pointed out, that we've had a chance, according to 25. animal traffic laws on the distribution and meaning of animal products can be prohibited or restricted from imports from countries that do not require such high levels of animal and Icelandic legislation, but it has not been used until now. Then we offer Icelandic farmers an equal comparison when we expect them to produce a product in far more rigid conditions than our farmers have to do. I think it's 0.009% that the market we're getting access to is, in turn, a much larger bioavailability relative to the nation. We're only 330,000, and we're much bigger inland markets. Icelandic farmers do not have access to access as they do in the EU. It is also one of those things that is so incontrovertible, if we look at them. We've been talking about the cheeses and importing cheeses that aren't made here. Sure, it's all right, but then I'd think we'd have to look at it. Are the animals in a similar situation? Is there a requirement for those who import them the way we do here? Why do we set such standards here, but do we feel that it is okay not to do them elsewhere? It is claimed that this does not affect the Icelandic cheese market, but, of course, it does. That's for sure. I don't really want to say that I'm going against imports in a foreign product, that's not how I'm supposed to be interpreted. I feel that there are only risks in many places and a little hypocrisy in it, especially about the demands we make. One of the reviews on this subject points out that there is a reason to believe that all the tollovati of the EU, i.e. For products here, dairy products, it is formulationd as monthly shelf life, while most tollovita from Iceland is fresh with a shelf life of about 30 days. We are talking about something different, fresh on the one hand, and a product with a much longer life span. It's not like they're even. It has also been observed regarding this toll and the discussion for the weekend that the import of the birds and pigs was primarily from other Norwegian countries where the situation was similar in terms of antibiotic resistance. Last year, 43% of pigs were imported from Denmark. There was no import from any other Norwegian country. It was 27% from Spain and 20% from Germany. The same can be said for the chicken, 25% came from Denmark, 60% from Germany, and nothing else from the Norwegian states, just to be right. It also counts when discussing where the meat comes from. It's facing a lot of people. This is important in the big context. If this happens to be the case, pork transfer is increasing very much, which will lead to the detriment of many pigs so that we can almost talk about a crash in this article, then we must remember that it is, for example, that it is. The production that keeps slaughter stops around the subject all year round. Sheep farmers don't kill unless they're two months a year. A growing price for the farmers would be affected by the grain or food. There are a lot of things in the chain that can have an effect there. I encourage more of this to look into it better than has been done. It is irresponsible for the council to handle such a huge case as follows, without taking into account the warnings that have been traced from very many sources, not only to farmers, but also to the surgeon, etc. We need to analyze this. The Ministry has had time to have it analyzed. Of course it hasn't been shown to me. I'll be corrected if that's the way it is. It's in my mind like a non-filled man. What are the counterweight measures? They are not sufficient in the labour market to handle this, either for pigs, eggs, or chicken farms. Clearly, much more is needed if we are to try to present acceptable circumstances to our farmers that can lead them to cope with what lies ahead. Madam President. I've been reviewing the points I'm worried about. I have read very much and have tried to study what has been said and written, not just, so as to be maintained, on the part of the prayer lead, but also more people from abroad, as I pointed out about e.g. what happened in Denmark. We are no different than any other country in this regard. We need to be prepared to see what this means in all respects to the consumers and the settlements of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to put some words into this matter, for a great deal of national agreement. Because there's been some debate about whether it's related to the change in agricultural and agricultural contracts, it's true that I'm informing you that in all the conversations I had with that particular day. Agricultural minister during a contract agreement, I described my and our attitude in the United States that it was absolutely clear that, along with continued massive expenditures for the support of the Icelandic agriculture that we would need expenses so that they had as little a negative impact on competition as possible, were involved in agriculture development and, at the same time, would have to establish this customs agreement in such a way that it opened the door as possible for Icelandic consumers. Because it would be necessary to ensure both quality and maintenance for Icelandic agriculture. I notice during the discussion that members of the left movement have taken on the role of representing the retreat and isolationism and land shutdown in this matter. I must say, I find the idea of what has been said here on their part quite impressive. But they never say anything new here. The only option in changing this customs agreement is some form of thinking that the country should be shut down and fortified, agriculture should be self-needed production for the Icelandic nation rather than a competitive industry. I basically disagree with that policy. I notice that the members of the VG have then wrapped this into a verb associated with self-sustaining and environmental patterns and other such. But if, in a way, men abuse the sustainable concept of trying to build support for building customs in the richest countries in the world, they are saying that the poorest countries in the world should always be poor because no object is ever to be taken from one country to another. The international trade of the most rich countries and have the greatest potential for buying opens their markets to the products of those who are competitive in other fields and then mutually. There has been a lot of talk about how harmful it is to open this country in this respect for import. I like to think of the land like any other professional. We are food producers, who often have no share in the export of fishing roads. In the United States, as the fishing industry expands, the giants jumped forward in quality and value after we increased the export, opening the market. The idea of a container fish was the most popular of evening television newscasts in 1991. The concept of a container fish has not been heard since we went to EFS because we now have fish in Iceland. We moved into the country to work in foreign lands, to increase our value here, and to create new opportunities for an Icelandic fishing road. No matter what we do, we can do with the agriculture. Why is Radama negotiating for the production of fish in foreign lands? Yes, that's because we don't have a tollvota to export it. We cannot find a job for Icelandic hands in Icelandic agriculture. Therefore, the Annual Assembly of the European Union of Iceland for the past 15 years has been constantly called for increased access to tax-free agricultural exports to other countries to increase the number of jobs in Icelandic agriculture. The future vision we receive from members of the Left Move - the future vision they offer is that the Icelandic agriculture should be an article where operating can only be reduced because machines are increasing, technologies improve, and difficult jobs are reducing their blessings in agriculture as well as all other sectors. That means that there are fewer people there, just like in the fishing field. Since 1990, the population has dropped by 2% per year. But there has been a growing increase in activities related to fishing, knowledge, and education. That is why the valuable things the fishing road makes for us. This is exactly the same thing we can do in agriculture if we just shake off this miserable attitude of retreat and isolationism that will do nothing but choke the agriculture. History is known by John Steinbeck of the giant in Mice and by men who wanted to protect the mouse. He loved the mouse so much that he held it in his hand. But his love was so great that he did not look after him, and he crushed her. It is vital that humans avoid killing their delight because they want to spend so much of it. On the contrary, the opportunity for Icelandic agriculture is to open the country today, to increase the export potential of Icelandic agriculture because we are so happy that we did not open the country in 1960 or 1970 when the emphasis was on industrialized production, just as it was here with the milk traffic laws of 1934, when the competition between the manufacturers was banned. The problem is that VG has not yet come to realize that it is very bad not to allow competition between the manufacturers. If you want the real organic industry, if you want to compete on the basis of origin and product quality, then you have to allow competition between different processing practices. It's necessary. From 1934, the old dairy system was based on a lack of milk, and it was not healthy and did not guarantee that it was clean. That is why people began to build a magnificently mechanical system for cleansing milk, to win it, and to send it all the same way. I totally understand the point. They wanted to have access to wholesome food for poor people. I totally understand. But this also affected the variety and application of the article. It was forbidden to sell a civilian shirt, which was the best skirmish in the country, and the whole stirr, poor skirmish and good, and to this day it is not easy to find the origin of goods. It is not easy to identify the bodies from an accurate structure because in the system the remains of this skunk protection are still to be found, where everyone is worthy of the same pot. That is why when the left movement, at the turn of a green bid, forms a armory on the violence behavior of the Lacties to lower rivals, people are completely lost where agriculture needs to be going. You see, he has to go more and more into the variety. One thing is that one person does the collecting of milk all over the country, I can quite buy it, there's no problem setting it up. But then there are a number of smaller people, and many people who are competing for products and quality to improve goods. For example, what is happening now with Arna's arrival? Yeah, well, there's a company all of a sudden who trusts to offer a much more healthful box and AB's milk, and that's just half of the sugar we've been offered from the restaurants so far. So if we hadn't been exposed to this competition from the Eagle, we'd be just still gimming up this candy can from the Galacing Sale. Is that good from a monopoly? No. That's why I think it's so important for us to get into love for Icelandic agriculture. My main concern about this deal is how it will be introduced. I'm worried they'll keep saying goodbye. Here we have heard a lot of defences over the fact that there is a real danger of bringing in cheap food and not enough food. The auction - and - eating environment ensures that we obtain cheap food because people offer to the quatane so much that they cannot afford to buy the most expensive goods. If you mean something by wanting healthy foods, quality food, you should stop offering the salads, because they are the ones who force immigrants to always take the cheapest goods in import. When Iceland wrote a contract about the 1994 International Business Organization, we became involved in the goal that we wanted to have a tollcantans that were supposed to ensure equal competition for prices and quality so that protection would be on the market that would force domestic production not to have monotons and quality so that it would have something other than the existing goods. We all remember how the cheese market was in Iceland in 1994, but the extraterrestrial competition was always thought of to provide domestic production of this dual enterprise. The import data will destroy both, destroy the quality device because immigrants must import less product. That is why I feel that it will blow when the same people who oppose the fact that we don't take up the quatans, come up here, complain about the quality of the exported production. The more breakfasts are offered, the less efficient the backup will be brought in. Then, of course, the products brought into this country are designed to meet standards of living, the same quality requirements and health standards as those of domestic production. Each country, in its own sense, has the right to set the definition of origin. It's just Iceland hasn't. This is in part because our heritage in this article is too much stained in this story of skussa protection. That the system has not been wrapped in specialization and that those who do well enjoy it in price and quality and brand, but that, contrary to the fact that everything is stirred into one pot and what is in the note is only pork, Icelandic. So I began to read the small type, a country of origin: Spain. It's a domestic problem. It's Icelandian self-management. We have to decide how we're going to have the agriculture. We cannot continue to do as my left - green friends did to speak down the importance of competition in the power phase, the importance of products development in an intensive phase, and then to speak up monotonousism in return. This is completely off-limits and does not continue in any way for Icelandic agriculture. Our most important project now is to develop the system so that support will be as low as the production sector or production manager as possible, support the scattered and settled areas there, support a range of tasks that farmers can take and receive. I don't see too much of the money spent in support of domestic agricultural production, but I can't help it if they're going to fix the article in the same industry that we're going to continue paying, the public in the country, with the tax protection all the money they're paying without any means to guide the article. The article deserves something better than to be locked in this bondage to overmanagement and monotonousness. What this limited import provides is two. It provides the maintenance of domestic production, quality and maintenance if the quotas are to be given and not offered. And it offers welcome opportunities for the articles in the Icelandic agricultural industry that can move out and have a special place to do so. Our quality is this, as I said earlier, that we did not move in 30 years ago, while all over Europe was still industrialized agriculture with the emphasis on cheap chicken pudding, cheaply and cheaply, working in factory and factory farming. Blessings have become just another focus in the Western world in this regard. I have no faith in anything other than the Icelandic consumers, if the Icelandic government is the one who will run its way to establish the rules of origin, be prepared to pay high prices. When I was offered to buy Icelandic pork, a country of Spain, I would have been willing to pay twice the price of an estimated family-bound pork that would be known as low drug abuse. These are all the things we need to build up to secure our unique status. An example from the garden of Eden tells us that Icelanders are willing to pay double the price for domestic production than for foreign sources and linking them. So there is nothing to be afraid of in this regard. So I find this presentation, this verdant presentation where everything is stirred together, both health requirements and source markings, and trying to make us realize that there's a terrible disaster because there's just some Thai chicken stuff coming in here, just being so he's not a man to offer. We are in a position to establish the rules of origin that we would like to set. They can be true for everyone, even for our own production. I think it's important for her. I think the application tool for Icelandic agricultural production is endless in this world, with its emphasis on wholesome and cultural health and development becoming increasingly reduced. It is our happiness that we are starting to open this setting exactly now that the idea of factory farming has, what should we say, live in the great world. I'm gonna make it my final statement that I really believe that Icelandic agriculture can grow. That's why this deal is so important. It is so important to put the thought into this article, to stop looking at it as an article that is completely impossible to grow and view it as an article in which we create the expectation that we can increase jobs, increase production, and export. I'd like that. I think it would be the best gift we can give to the Icelandic agriculture, to create those conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u18	Madam President. This was a big speech. paritaprevir The Árni Páll the son of Árnason. He will be told that he considers my special representative to be a representative of the reinstatement and isolationism of this agreement. I have to say, and I may surprise no one that I disagree completely and that exactly what I and my partners in left green have been. In both committees and in discussions, we are looking to the future. We'd like to agree with other factors. I must say, stories were proved quite surprising in speech. A senator, former president of Iceland's All-American Party, made a big effort to increase competition as if competition was the beginning and end of everything. A competition may be quite nice in various fields, but I don't think it's the only criterion to use or to use it, and it's actually very dangerous, although it's a toll agreement, to get caught up in such discussions and to think only of commercial and commercial interests, but not looking to social and social factors, environmental factors and public health issues. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that competition can be used as one of the major criteria in matters such as these discussed here, whether or not we need to include more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u19	A respectable president. Well, it's good to see you. A senator is realizing the difference between equal policy and a clean left policy, since equalism has always emphasized that competition is the best way to work. This is because humans will be able to resist and strive in quality. I'm asking why. However, there is a senator who thinks he is. The senator's unpleasantness of being a company like Arna and a competition, offering less sugar and more goods and goods than the mix company Galasama has thought to be a seaming to offer us here, cutting off the insurrection, getting something on it, getting a market share on it, offering a new kind of product, a lactose-free product that hasn't been offered before - not until it was coming, they used the opportunity, and hanging one small line of the lactose-free milk at the market to watch out for the little competition? That's what I'm talking about. A senator in general is saying that it is bad if competition develops at an advanced level, so that farmers gain a higher price because of the new resort that offers a better price for goods? This is what competition does. It increases value and prevents farmers from needing, for example. to look at an advantage like this in the price of lamb's meat as just a party sister. The senator has made comments. That's what competition does. It ensures that there is no such thing as an individual or a few, so it is so important. I've been driving my speech all through a talk saying there's an urgent public health or health hazard or something like that. It's just a cover. It remains whether people want to give competition a chance, open the country, or whether humans are absolutely determined to be in isolationism no matter what it is that they may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u20	Madam President. I can quite repeat what I said in my previous answer that I believe that competition applies in various fields and can often be of the good, but I don't think it can be the beginning and end of anything at all and not the only standard that we put on things. I have to disagree completely. A senator in that he has dejected something, together with what we have brought forward environmental and public - health views of this agreement, as it were. We have identified a number of points to support our discussion there. But okay, if we don't agree on this, then it just has to be. I totally agree that this contract and the livestock deal are linked. Although I don't feel that there is any need to be put together, I'm not going to belittle the fact that there are certain material issues involved. It has then been shown that a task force was appointed by the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministry to investigate the effects of the customs agreement and provide suggestions on what needs to be considered specifically. One of the things I've criticized is what actually happens, it's the policy of the greater part of the council to accept this toll agreement first but then to take some action proposed in another Ministry. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator think that he has just begun to file or validate my concerns that by going this way, we are in fact signing an open check to sign and validate the tax agreement, but then we're just going to see if there's anything in the country that we're going to need later? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u21	A respectable president. I'm just happy to hear that. A senator would not argue with me about the importance of competition at the Grand Prix, and I would ask her to film it at the moment. paritaprevir Ögmundur Jónasson at the next assembly meeting because there is clearly a way to find the benefit of competition in agricultural production. A competition, of course, is not the beginning and end of everything; no one has claimed it, but it has a good effect in agricultural production and especially in the produce. That's what I'm talking about. A senator asks about, the introduction to the contract, then this committee was very interesting, which was just made up of representatives of the manufacturers. It is once again showing the wrong thinking in this matter. I don't see how anyone in general can put such committees to work in such matters. Of course, consumers have to come to the table too, the store too, and to be honest with the store around here at the council halls, in the early process, has been so close to the level of employment. I don't think people could get away with saying things like that outside of this room, to be honest. In these proposals, some of the ways it doesn't meet Iceland's international commitments such as continuing the import tenders and using the money from the auction to support domestic production. Iceland can't do this. We already signed it. It's against the law. Then we're changing the import films to the fundraiser and that's why we have no access. What I'd like to do and describe in my speech earlier is that Iceland establishs a strict code of ethnic origin that applies to all countries as foreign production. I think it'll be useful to a local company. There's something we can do, and we're doing it. But for that, we don't have to close the land. To do so, we need not need any incontrovertious propaganda as to what foreign production is bad and scary and dirty and awesome.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u22	President. This is an informative debate over the customs agreement under this category, the Icelandic trade agreement with the European Union, and changes its opinion on how it will come out of the country. You can drag it in either direction. Of course, it's not black and white. Hv. paritaprevir (a) How does Árnason's experience show that we are "instructive "? (b) How can we benefit from the counsel of Paul? Rather, we want to see the effect of the customs agreement on those people who have much like farmers, the consumers, and the analysis will determine the impact of the contract on the job and on the country. I think all these factors are so important that when it comes to making a decision to import into the country on a tax-free agricultural product, such analysisal work is available. It is responsible to do so and to face the way in which humans will take action. Or are you going to float asleep to buy a lot of fruit and watch a number of people living, both in pork and poultry production, egg production and other carnivore production in the country, paying for that quantity in addition to existing levels, which could have consequences for the production and farming of many areas throughout the country? I don't think it's irresponsible to call for diagnostic work. A number of other things have been done that have economic and national impact in Iceland as a whole. It is true that in the next four years, it is said to increase the import of pork from 200 tons to 700 tons, in poultry from 200 tons to 856 tons, from 50 tons to 400 tons of meat, and from 50 tons to 250 tons of hot dogs. It takes less than that. It may be difficult to repair food production if, following this, the production and all the worthwhile supplementes involved in the process and the production and working of this product at home and making it available. Of course, there are numerous jobs. There is nothing to say that the high import and toll agreement includes the benefit of consumers. We've been increasing toll free import, and we've taken it step by step and by step. But there is also dissatisfaction that customs on imported meat did not accumulate, and this is a requirement for such action. We also know that today, both in poultry and pork, people are exploiting tollcanathans so that the most expensive parts are transferred, boneless bites. Then, when the energy pages are made of bacon, they come in additional imports and are free, so the amount is huge into the market. It is very normal that we left greens make good use of the importance of Iceland's health products being unique and of its own. It's a small amount of medication. The product is largely free of a Campylobacter and some salmon that must mean a hell of a lot to us. Then there is the principle that the Icelandic agricultural product sits at the same level as agrienvironment schemes when products are transferred to the country through mutual toll agreements. There are, of course, other factors that completely misplace our competitive attitude toward imported goods. It's scandalous to the extreme. Agricultural minister has not yet developed the rules that there should be a source and that there are grounds for the products that we receive to the country so that consumers can be clear from where it comes from. Today, we have no idea what situation agri-environmental approach is produced from abroad and whether the animal welfare laws, as we have set in a country where the very strict requirements for the treatment of animals are met, can be attributed entirely to its origin and are free of drug use where possible. All of this is in some void and black hole when it comes to the full import of the country. The quickest thing to do is to fix it. This is unacceptable. I would also like to access the supplies involved in transporting as much agrienvironmental products to the country as the target of this agreement is proposed. Of course, we're supposed to look at how much less polluted it is to produce as much of agrienvironmental products at home. Although we have to move in with food and some other manufacturing products, it does say ourselves that we reduce pollution by producing as much of the agricultural products at home. I don't think it's possible that the former president of Iceland's Socialist movement doesn't pay much for this and that it thinks it's some kind of people traveling with us on the left green when we draw attention to this in the overall context, on climate issues and on the goals set for the climate conference in Paris. Why don't we watch all the shows? I call attention to the changes made to the council from our left green to the fact that the environmental impact of the livestock contract will be identified. They're also supposed to look at it and compare the difference between producing a similar product here in Iceland and moving it around the oceans, for example. from Asia. It must matter that we try to minimize climate pollution. Everything matters in that context. I've made it clear that there's a particular profession that upsets me, that I specifically mention the white meat. The money of chicken farmers and Iceland's Pork Farmers Association strongly object to the current tax agreement for the General Assembly. By permission of the president, I quote their comments: ▪ The agreement was made without an analysis of its negative effects for Icelandic agriculture and food production. Government customs policy undermines the conditions needed to improve the well - being of animals, to fight infectious diseases, and to use no agriculture. I think it's the main point drawn up in a very nuclear statement that describes concern that is unique. The review also gives concern about chicken production, poultry production, with the permission of a president: The development of chickens has been in a way that toll protection has diminished to such an extent that import of the more valuable parts of the chicken, such as the chests of the EU's import into the tolls. This has considerable consequences for producers, leaving breasts one of the most valuable groups of chicken people in the world. The share of import in total market has grown from 8% in 2010 to 20% 2015. The introduction of the existing toll agreement will not be addressed but will increase the availability of tollovata tolls which will contribute to the import and weaken domestic production. Is this really what we want? Don't we need to look at the consequences when we are showering so much meat into an Icelandic market in a short period of time? I think we need to. There is also concern about the production of sheep and beef in these materials, in fact, the whole meat market, because it affects all the meat produced within the country. This is how it is in Europe in lands where we have been getting pork and chicken meat from Italy, Spain, and Denmark, to name someone, the price has fallen because of a business venture at Russia. Then we get into the market here less expensive meat while this situation is inexpensive. Farmers in these European articles are experiencing bad results because of this and are forced to reduce the price of their product. This is not a long-term situation. It is the price of the product, and it comes into the market here and disqualifys all competitive positions. This will not be permanent, but how will this affect the ability of the articles here to continue production? We don't know anything about that. There is a danger that many families will see their beds grown up and have to crash. We will not be able to see that the article will rise again as if nothing has already been marketed here calls for increased domestic production of white meat, lamb, or beef. So there are many things in this matter that we need to look to. We left greens also think of consumers in these chemicals. It is important that consumers receive a good and wholesome product at a normal price. We think it should be a normal interaction between us. We certainly do not violate the fact that agricultural products are transferred into customs. But we want a balance between domestic production and national markets and Europe's enormous markets. We can't have a ton of tons, this microspecies against a major European market. It is not fair to set it that way. Speaking of competition: It is often ignored when we speak for the fact that we have to look at the overall picture, our economic and professional life, the ideal farmers, and how support to farmers comes to consumers and all the valuable chain that is interwoven. Neither farmers, consumers, or settlements in the country are island, they play all together, and when any links in this chain are broken out, things can go off and many things fall away, the foundations get weak, and the courtino effect can become something we can do nothing about it ever after. When it is the beginning and end of all things in this world, let us also look for more than any competition in the name of various markets that are prepared to take over. Once my party has been driven out of the market, they have come back to offer the goods or services at a very different price and have blown up. Let us also bear in mind that circumstances vary greatly, and it may not be that the law of the market is universal. We also need to look at social impacts and other variables, not only take competition out of parentheses but also think that it stands alone for the one and only justice and loyal consumers at all times. There are so many other things to hold hands, and circumstances must be so that few people who push the smaller ones out of the market will not be competitive. Speaking of smaller parties: The pleasant report recently shows that Arna's dairy station in Bolunga is expanding to build up on Isafa for the production of cheese. Although we open, for example, we also need to protect our domestic cheese production. the import of hard, source-coded cheeses and supplying smaller companies to a store that specializes in the product of having a good access to it. I'm just about to put this together without threatening domestic product. I think people can do it if they get a grip on these things. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason made it clear that we left greens in support of the monopoly of multiple sclerosis. It's amazing. A senator leaves such things out. Of course, we do not support the fact that a company with a market monopolic status treats less producers to prevent them from sitting at the table getting the product, the milk, for production of normal prices. We've talked about it, and we hope to get changes in the material, that smaller people get the product at a natural cost, and that they get enough milk to produce it. But there is also the fact that companies like Arna in Bolunga have declared that they do not trust to collect the milk themselves all over the country, trusting that MS will take care of it and provide the company with the product as it has been so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u23	A respectable president. I want to be president of what happened. The foreign press committee, who could not attend last week, speak very briefly. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, I think most of them were presented as important, and of course there are differences of viewpoints. But I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The Foreign Affairs Committee and all the representatives there for a very good job in connection with this proposal. She had a lot to do and a lot to cover, so we had many guests to attend. Many had strong opinions and completely contrasteds there, as expected. But the discussion went well, and I want to thank the members of the committee for it. The main theme of the contract being discussed and the work that really matters is my opinion, and most of it. The foreign Commission, all of whom sign the opinion of the Committee outside the representative of the left green, that we have more opportunities, and I feel that it is only forgotten in the discussion that society, the food industry in this country, has more opportunities to move out and go to the market of their products. That, too, matters. In all the contracts made, whether human or human, you give and take. There will be an opportunity to present our fine product elsewhere. I think that's important. We felt that it was a serious matter for us to agree to this agreement. We can manage whether it has real opportunities for good or bad, an opportunity to import more products. My opinion is, and it is reflected in the obituary that it is beneficial. Not only will it benefit Icelandic consumers, not just for the Icelandic food industry, but for Icelandic farmers as a whole. I also feel that there were some people who, like the ASI, who gave positive comments and felt that the deal would be agreed with consumer interests as a guide. The same was true of the Neythal Society. This, of course, weighed heavily on all discussions within the foreign committee. So I think the deal is good. Of course, it can be considered and discussed, and we discussed it for a long time at our meetings, how this exchange should have taken place, whether there was sufficient consultation in the process, etc. I'm not going to pass judgment on it, but first and last, I think, like the majority of the committees, that's a good deal. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, and it's a little strange that I, the former vice president of the Independence Party, wholeheartedly agree and could actually have delivered the same speech as the former chairman of the Continental Party did. It surprises me, but it may remind me of the points in Icelandic politics, of listening to the arguments of our partner in left green, how they present the matter, and how they choose to take it. I'm not going to read it any more than it is for me to talk about the past, talk about something that was, about dangers that are not really there, which, in my opinion, are characterized by a lack of confidence in consumers who can choose, choose, and trust us. I also believe that the time has come for this to become a full - grown agricultural industry. I think Icelandic agriculture can successfully cope with the threats involved. I think Icelandic agriculture is clean, competing with the very best, being at that point in their development, we can say that there was never another so demand for such products. I think every society in the world is developing toward that. I think we should be happy, therefore, that he gets more competition, gets to run elsewhere, and if he becomes, as most of us feel, surely, more valuable and valuable than products that are less wholesome than we consider Icelandic agriculture to be. I'd also like to use this opportunity to make sure that this will match the market agreement. We all know that. It was discussed, since there has been a little debate in the hall tonight, whether this should be discussed at the same time as in the context of the livestock contract. Everyone expected that. That is what the work took into account. I think it's quite successful. I think, for example. that I had been very difficult, and, indeed, is having a very difficult time and will probably not support the existing domestic agreement and have previously said that, working with that matter without it being a side subject. I think there are a lot of systems in Iceland, and I've been thinking in Icelandic politics for a long time that many systems in Iceland have long gone to their skin, needed considerable thought, and needed a great deal of courage to deal with new challenges and to work with them differently. I think the agricultural contract is a good example of this. The approach to agriculture is in my opinion - and I have full respect for the opinions of others, but I refuse, as is sometimes done in this discussion, that there is a person's doubts about existing agricultural systems that involve opposition to Icelandic food production or farmers. On the contrary, I think they're very good and they're very good, but my opinion is that we've been pushing this system down into endless rules, endless regulations, endless formalities about things, which, in turn, choke what we least want to choke. I wish that the Senate had, indeed, I haven't seen it in the past few decades, and I will admit that I'm not sure that it will happen in the decades, the collective courage to deal with that system, as well as many others, with the view that Icelandic agriculture is a great industry, can do much better and more than we give him the opportunity. This deal is, in my opinion, a step in the right direction. It benefits consumers, food industry, farmers, and everyone who comes to work, for the benefit of Icelandic society. But first and last, we have to trust this sector and trust consumers. Therefore, I rejoice that this case has achieved as much solid solid solid solid solid solidarity as it can be seen in the case of the foreign committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u24	A respectable president. The government sees agriculture as one of the nation's most important sectors. The rising demand for global food creates an unprecedented opportunity for agriculture. The proposal now proposed to be convened suggests that the government will be committed to the Iceland Treaty a contract between the European Union and the European Union on the market trade agreements with agricultural products. The contract is a business with non-aggressive agricultural and agricultural products and includes a significant increase in tax-free import sources as well as to which tolls are dropped on the number of toll numbers. The contract negotiates toll erosion and increase the salutation and export of agrienvironmental products. In addition to the benefits of consumers, the contract has added products and lower prices to offer the opportunity for Icelandic producers. Clearly, different viewpoints have been made regarding the agreement and its possible effects. I agree with the greater part when he/she has a right to import parvos that are very similar to the annual import in the last two years, as we can see from all the numbers we have been looking at on import. However, it is necessary to ensure that there is no relief from food production in the country. Food security in Iceland has been high, infections are rare, and when these occur, it is taken in quickly and well. It is important to ensure the food security of the Icelanders and to look to all aspects of the contract. Therefore, I believe that it is important to have action in connection with an existing contract and that it is designed to correct the ambiguity of competitiveness and to create the position of Icelandic agriculture as well as the manufacturers of foreign rivals. As the World of Congress knows, the head of the marine export and agricultural ministers appointed a service team in April to investigate the effects of a customs agreement on the European Union and a new programme since June 2016. The staff was aimed at evaluating the impact of the Convention on individual habitats and particularly pig and poultry development, as well as assessing the costs and impact of new regulations for the welfare of livestock on these habitats. The group has provided suggestions for eight teams that deal with many of the prognostic factors that are outlined in the opinion of the current majority of the stocks, including on tollvota, the equal competitiveness of national authorities and the health requirements for agriculture. I agree wholeheartedly with a greater proportion of the employment committee that agrees with these suggestions. In addition, I have full confidence in the marine eco-efficiency minister that he carefully reviews them and specifically examines the origination and the use of drugs. Otherwise, I thank the greater part of the State Department for a job well done and will be good when this case is completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u25	Madam President. I'd like to use this opportunity now at the end of the discussion, asking the highest. A minister in the light of her words to the staff appointed by a marine emissary and agricultural minister, whether it seems that it does not quickly agree to the customs agreement first, as suggested here, and then to consider the effects he may have, or will have on the land and follow up on the operation. It's under the roof. The minister may not be surprised that we will first sign and then begin to consider the consequences of the contract? To me, this would have to be done the opposite, i.e. first analyze the impact and then take sides on the contract. That's even. That's why, and that's part of the evidence that I'm part of my committee party and we at the left movement have suggested that the case be referred to at the highest level. Governments and so off because the impact of the deal has not been determined.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I have to be sure that the importers agreed on today are very similar to the annual import that has been since the last two years. The Governing Body was appointed on April 8, past. Many of the proposals put in place or are about to be made, so in some ways I am calm over it and trust the marine economist and agricultural ministers fully to ensure that the article will not compete with the foreign companies who import goods here. I also trust that the quality of Icelandic agriculture, pigs and poultry growers, is only considerable. It has been observed that consumers are very effective in choosing Icelandic products because they know how wholesome they are. So I think that considering the growth of the matter and the quantity of the import that is involved, we can quite benefit from pleasure. However, I think it is very important that we take a very careful look at the situation and continue to ensure the implementation of the staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u27	Madam President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is yet to admit that I am, in fact, even more confused about what it really means and what is the highest view. A minister of this because I felt as if I could understand the supreme answer. A minister who, in fact, did not really have to do the task force. I'm worried that by going this way, i.e. to sign first, if the Council validates a tax agreement with the European Union and then begins to examine the effects, it really means that we are here making an unpublished check, as we do not yet know what counter-improvement action may have to be taken. There is no assessment of the cost, as is the cost of Icelandic taxpayers. I don't think that we're both going to be released and kept on this case, either we're bound to have to take some counter measures, and I'm sure they're going to cost something. That is why it would have been necessary to do so before but not when the agreement was signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-05-146.u28	A respectable president. I think the Senator studied the suggestions of the staff. I'm thinking about reading them a few, so she'll see what they're talking about. I think they come into play on the issues of opinion and the concerns that some have been concerned about. Firstly, the lack of a specific body part is proposed to be directed into the tollovate by limiting the share of the EU-Tolcotan to the missing products; secondly, to calculate the tollcota quantity to import will be based on bone-based meats, according to international commitments, and thirdly, that tollocrats will be distributed more frequently per year, up to four times in place to maintain an even flow into the EU market. Also, it is suggested that governments seek all means to provide further information on the import requirements for quality management, especially drug use and health requirements. In particular, I mention these four suggestions, and I feel that they are very important to me. I've been looking for information at the Department of Employment on where they're standing, and I understand that their progress is very few.
