ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Environment and Resource Ministry asking for every request to give a written answer for this request. 1139, on a meeting, from the Brynhildi of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir. A letter has also been received from the Department of Economics where request is made in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 1153, on the effect of the project the loss of real estate loans on the government tax manager's operation, from the Sagas Svavarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u2	A respectable president. Support to the government and both government groups is increasing according to last night's Gallup survey. This need not be surprising in view of the economic success that has been attained during the current ideal period. Economic and financial policies that will be discussed afterward confirm the giant steps taken and the more good things being done here. If humans refuse to listen to governments and count all the impossible things they produce, let us give a fresh witness to ASI. The Common Union predicts continued economic growth in this country for eight years, it will be 4.9% this year, one of the most economics in the Western state, and typically 3.8% in the next and the next year. This is associated with low unemployment and inflation of less than 2%. The employment of the households has improved, and ASI believes that private consumption will increase by 6% this year, which is most since 2007. It is also possible to add that nowhere in Europe is as balance of income as in Iceland according to new lists from Eurostat, the European Environment Agency. We don't have to look beyond Reykjavík to see what's going to happen if the Conspiracy, the Left Green, the Bright Future, and the Piranus come to power. The city's run is in perfect disarray. Thus, in the last 12 billion years, Reykjavík's headquarters was occupied. Less than plans expected. The result is negative for less than 5 billion, but it had been estimated to be 7.3 billion. leftover. This is the remarkable achievement of the political groups. A bad business is then excused by the fact that the city has to live up to commitments. The public also has to fulfill their commitments, whether they are loans or not. The next total elections will include groups that show confidentiality and financial responsibilities and those who do not know how to handle money. Fortunately, we have wise voters. [[The president calls.]] They will guard against the left accidents. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u3	V.E.G. President. During our recent meetings, we've talked about tax reforms and societies. I would like to say that this discussion has been very helpful and upbuilding. We have discussed the scope and impact of the activities of such associates and options and suggestions for improvement. Yesterday, we discussed a more radical proposal that has to do with the use of countries that offer such a tax appeal. It may be with such more drastic suggestions that they draw out the highest viewpoints, but their aims are, of course, to eliminate the use of foreign companions and to take money away from taxes. Now, a summary is being made. The Economic and Business Committee of open meetings with the head of the IRS and the head of the state tax, Federal Bank and SEC, providing suggestions for reforms that were made in those meetings. I think it's important to come to this because in all the political turmoil of the past weeks and the coverage of the Panama leak that has certainly shaken in our community, the council has responded in a powerful and professional way. Of course, it is now an assignment to process this discussion, data, and suggestions and coordinate. That is why it is a pleasure to have the highest power today. The government responds and decides to propose the highest order. Secretary of finance to appoint a special group that has the primary task of making proposals for a change in law, regulations and procedures and in cooperation with the government's office. I view the work and suggestions and discussions that have taken place during the council on these matters and this step at the highest level. Governments will speed up real improvements in the field of the legislature.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u4	V.E.G. President. A great deal of talk is now being discussed with them, following a normal demand discussion. Those contemplating supply evidently feel that there is a demand for their energy, and in most cases it is good. In my conversations with people, the public in the country, the nation called I feel a great demand for a upbuilding and positive conversation that leads us on the road and strengthens us as a community. V.E.G. President. So I'm going to let myself be on a positive level here today and point out the economics of the European Union of Iceland. It shows that the purchase power of the households has grown a great deal, and then I quote in the words of Henný new Hinz, economist ASI, by permission of presidents: ▪ Yes, it is a powerful growth. The positive thing is that it seems solidly based. To this day, he is building on an improved financial status. We still do not see evidence that debt is increasing. V.E.G. President. What good news this is for homes in the country! And it would have been fun if ASI officials had been able to mention them at the celebration of May 1. What matters is how much money we get for our purchases. The contents of this projection are truly relevant to all of us, for the year nearly 5% is predicted for interest and 3.8% for interest over the next two years. Then low inflation continues to be predicted. But the predictions also apply to us, for they also point to matters that we must guard and groups that we must defend. The experience, for example, is that rent - rent status is extremely narrow. A significant rise in real estate prices greatly encourages the development of enough apartments to prevent the loss of real estate prices. How important it is, then, that we achieve a solidarity of the provision of the existing housing plant! V.E.G. President. This fine position is most challenging because economic stability has to be maintained by economic management for the next few years. How happy, then, that the following will bring a magnificent financial policy and financial plan to the next five years, which includes the possibility of an even better living for future generations!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u5	A respectable president. A transport plan to 2018 is now being treated for an environment and transport committee where I have a seat. During the past few days and weeks, we have talked to the road construction, rural governments around the country, and others about transport issues that are, of course, one of the most important issues we need to deal with at the high Council and the basis for the safeness, development, and economic development of this country, as we would like to see in this country. Clearly, major improvements in the transport system need to be made, defending further damage. The employment community has encouraged the state to work together with a private agency on transport workers and also feel that smaller projects such as reducing the number of single bridges may be very useful in such English cooperation, by permission of Presidents, the European Commission's Office-private partnership. The head of the Industrial Association is also very much concerned about this idea, pointing out that the nations around us, such as the Norwegians, used by the so-called PPP co-worker and private member of the establishments of the investors, who have succeeded in success. Therefore, we must ask ourselves, " Am I in Iceland too far back when it comes to taking advantage of the methodology of building needed structures? Am I trapped in an old situation that we need to step out of? ' Of course, the segregation tunnel is a clear example of this large task which worked very well and normal and healthy cooperation between private and state partners on such projects can provide the national market very well, and good for all of us, the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u6	President. What is the government policy for Icelanding from abroad? Does it seem to be a good idea or a bad idea? Someone would think that the answer would lie in the eye, that it would be a good idea, a good and important matter for the Icelandic economy that we would support students abroad, so that they would return home with experience and knowledge, thus making the Icelandic community of wealthy, open - minded, and varied. You would think people in general would agree on this. But I wondered about the policy of the government and how it and the Supreme Court. A minister of education can see these matters, for under his direction the WIN has reduced the loans made to students abroad by tens of percent. This is what seems to be now, at least because of very low standards, very low sources that we have heard from students and schools abroad not to stand up. Analytica, the firm who won the case for the LAIN right now, says last interview with VOLV, that its sources, which provide the basis for the final decline, are effective. Don't they have to be right? Isn't that the minimum? SINE, the United States of England, has repeatedly tried to get answers from the highest level. Secretary of education on these topics. It has provided data to show that the basis for the counseling company, which is expected to have millions for their work, is not correct, but SINE does not receive so much as one answer. V.E.G. A minister does not respect his relationship. You must wonder, " Who is that worthy person working, studying, or anyone else? ' Finally, I wondered, because it's now summer, what's up with the tour board? It will be interesting to discuss it and to hear about it in the council sales.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u7	V.E.G. President. Last week some 50 people were killed in an air raid by doctors without a border in the city of Akpho, Syria. This attack carried out by the Syrian generals is a tragic war crime. An attack on medical institutions is one of the most serious of war crimes under international law. Sadly, this was not a unique event. International relief agencies have noted that all civil wars carried out such attacks. In 2015 this has been the case with 94 hospitals associated with doctors without a border in the country. In many cases, there was a so - called double attack, where a bomb is first fired, and then another person is sent to kill the people on the scene trying to save the injured. During the past six months, Saudi Arabia's army has three times bombed into the Yemen hospital. South Sudan Hospital has been hired and staff murdered. Last October, the U.S. Army killed more than 40 people in an assault on a hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan, and destroyed one of their special facilities in the north. All these reports come from the same well. Respect for international law runs counter, and more and more sides of war consider health - care professionals legitimate targets in warfare. I want to use this field to encourage the highest. A minister of state to resist this international trend and to encourage the whole body of Congress to get involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u8	A respectable president. Yesterday, coastal fishing began in the drudgery of most quarters, and everywhere there was a sea of fish. This morning, when small boats went fishing into the whites, they were burned by the fact that the last two springs cost the area 200 tons less distribution this year. The system was first set up to prevent persistent erosions in one area so that the pot would not be caught in another area, but today the emphasis is clearly changed. We can go to an Excel game and take the last four years instead of the last two, as officials seem to have done. The average power in the area of D from the West to the Hornfjord in the eastern corner last four years was 1,418 tons and most were caught at 1,550 tons, while the distribution is 1,300 tons this year. The first chapter of July was 450 tons, but this year's distribution is 195 tons. In August last year, the yield was 177 tons, but this year 130 tons are distributed. The average catch on a boat was mentioned in area D in 2015, i.e. 17 tons, about 300 tons, and up to 400 tons in the other areas. The average fishing of a boat was also mentioned in areas D, 11.3 tons, while it was 12.6, and up to 15.8 tons in other areas. Despite a much larger fishing industry and a 400 - ton increase in coastal fishing, a new distribution of 200 tons in region D continues to produce an average of 11.3 tons of fishing over 15.1 to 15.8 tons in the other areas. It seems that still there are blue-eyed politicians to stamp in raw numbers that excel-happy officials place on their table.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u9	A respectable president. On Sunday, May 1, the labor movement was celebrated, with a natural history of at least 100 years. A 100 - year discussion of new victories, a slogan, and a joy that the United States was able to celebrate many victory during the past 100 years, likely to celebrate many in the coming years. But May 1st, which has been the longest in my mind, is freedom, equality, and brotherhood. It was called for justice in the community for the last weekend, and we agree with it. As beautiful as those words are in person or as a goal and a view of a better life, I wonder how we have been able to make them come true. A respectable president. We hear every day that companies and individuals hide money in their own communities. The Icelandic banks founded their societies, and when people came to the bank to ask for advice or financial management, they had the money. It was the banks who carried the money to tax paradises and hid the tax from the tax and threw it into society, opening up a smoldering wound that is still unsurpassed. Happily, not all shared in the black work of banks and were honest about their business. But daily news reports from the media are published by people who have written billions of copies of the bank crash but who have brought in billions of people to buy companies and reassign themselves. This money has been transferred to the country by the 20% route of the Federal Bank, but no one needs to know where that money comes from, and these people have enjoyed more than the rest of us. When I consider beautiful words that all of us have used at solemn occasions, freedom, equality, and brotherhood, I ask ourselves, " Do I live in such a society? ' If we want to settle in the community, the banks have to make the appropriate authorities aware of how many societies they founded, who acquired them, and how much money the banks put away in these societies. I ask: Won't the Navy have to get answers from those who paid billions of dollars, get the answer to the question of how they made billions of dollars of taxes and move to the country on the 20% of the bank's rule, and misdirected all the competition in the country? [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for those answers. [[The president calls.]] In this country there is no way to talk about equality and brotherhood.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir said earlier, I'm very thoughtful about the position of Icelandic students here. Now, up to 30% of student loans are being reduced on one board, which means that a student who received 1,000 euros a month is now down to 700 euros a month. It's just too much shrinking, it's going way too fast. We don't have the latest numbers from the LIN, but it seems that the United States students are going abroad to a lesser extent. Never before in ten years have there been so few Icelandic students in foreign lands. Between 2013 and 2013, 2013, the number of students in a foreign country was reduced by 258, from 2,333 to 2,075. At the same time, we find that the Danish country is being strengthened more and more by Icelandic students. I think it's a very risky development. We see that the loans offered here are simply not competitive. They make it impossible for Icelandic students to be able to study foreign lands. When you look at the figures, there are about 2,000 people in Icelandic student loans abroad while 900 or 1,000 Icelandic students are on Danish student loans in Denmark. This is naturally a very serious development and something we really need to consider. The last time I checked, we were done with the Garth grant. That happened when we received the sovereignty of 1918. But it seems to be coming back. It is a great accusation for this government that she has permitted this trend to continue. The last time I checked, everything was in the blues and nothing just collapsed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u11	Mr. President. Official stocks were taken here into law in 2006. The purpose was to improve the access of the public and others to information on the parts. The Of-forms have been mainly used when governments have been converted into public societies. This change involves, among other things, the administrative law, i.e. a law on the rights of public employees, about the rights and rights of the Agency, stop validating the relevant organisation. It has been reported that the ohf-industry of government companies can address the rights of employees and reduce the pervadency of the business. Examples of public societies are: Istavia, Rarik, the State Radio, the Power Company of the West, Matis, and the Leather Fund of a rural community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u12	We're seeing each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u13	Today, the General will submit proposals for a government government that reflects the strength of the General Assembly. The arrangement for ordering other commercial organisations in the administration of other hfs is different. So I call for a secretary of finance to make the Senate aware of how he intends to put in the administration of Orcsus Westfjords, which holds his main meeting on May 12 next. Will other categories be consulted as to the proposal for administration, or will the governments merely appoint their people? I think it's very important that the government of the hf companies be democraticly ordered and that the process is clear. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the decisions made by Energy Vestjörður have been heavily critical, and groups of members of Congress have been requested left green, and members of the Controversies have requested the assessment of Kingdom Reexamination of certain factors in the management of Energy Westfjords. The WHO's monitoring duties should not be removed, although it is in public areas. Therefore, it is important that civil society operates in such a way that everything is on board and good administrative practices are done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u14	V.E.G. President. It is so encouraging to observe the discussion these days because we are doing well in Iceland. We've been lucky. We've been getting good cards on our hand. But it is not enough to get a good card, e.g. Like the growth of tourism and macropaths on land. They must be played wisely. I have to say, the government has really played its cards well. It is shown by all economic indicators. Yesterday, when I was returning home from work, I listened to an interview with Henný Hinz, economics ASI. She said that the power to buy the households had grown large, and the economy seemed to be built on a solid foundation. The European Union of Iceland assesses the situation as a result of improved domestic financial status. The relationship accounts for about 5% interest rate per year and for 3.8% interest rate over the next two years. Inflation is predicted to be low this year, with a rate of 6% in private consumption. We know the kindest, and I hope we've learned something from the collapse, i.e. To walk slowly through the door of joy It is now very important that governments achieve the economic stability achieved in recent years. Correction of the housing bar has had a very positive effect on domestic debt, and a successful discharge plan has been taken. Both have had a good effect on national preparation. Let us, then, hold on to it. This has never been the largest in Iceland than in 2014, but no European nation had the same level of income as in Iceland, according to the Eurostat, the European Economic Office. V.E.G. President. Even if things are going well for some time, we need to keep in mind how to nurture those who are less fortunate and to continue building up vital aspects of society, such as the health system. This emphasis is clearly reflected in the national financial program 2018s2021, where we see an increase of approximately 19% in the health - related joints. Surely we can rejoice over the good news.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u15	V.E.G. President. I had a meeting with the Economic and Business Committee the other day as part of the National Bank of Iceland's Money Policy Committee came to visit with the bank manager in the foreground. The meeting is well described in a small article on the visi.is, a field talk, mismanagement of things. It says that the bank manager has been required to answer at the meeting of members of the Committee on why the Federal Committee has overestimated inlandflation for several losses, why the cost of housing is calculated into an index number and no other place in the OECD countries, why the management interest here in Iceland is 5.75%, or, in fact, 6.5% of the foreign fashions of the Senðla Bank, while they are -0.25% in Sweden. These countries, Iceland and Sweden, enjoy similar inflation development, i.e. If it is as measured, i.e. without housing costs. In short, unless asked why many fortune - teller economists disagreed with the Federal Banker's financial policies, why they disagree with the fact that he had so high, he did not agree. Then he said: "Well, we simply disagree with these men and like to accept them debatt. Now I'd like to encourage you. A financial and business committee to make an open meeting where there can be a Jón Daníelsson with the Marinó of the bank so that they can take this Njálsson in the hearing of the nation. I think it would be very informative for all the public, and it would be an ideal opportunity for the bank manager to explain to the nation what he cannot explain to us generals, i.e. Why does the Society's direct growth in the area that they are? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u16	V.E.G. President. This has been an interesting discussion. However, for the next two years, a new national interest report has been made available to the European Union for a very joyful number. There is expected to be more economic growth than we have recently seen in predictions. It's supposed to be a celebration. It is clear that investments are increasing, and our exports are increasing. It is clear that there is bright ahead of us in the Icelandic economy, and now we are keeping our cards tight, so that at the council we'll be able to maintain the rules of professional living and all of us play the game, and that we're trying to simplify the environment of the companies who are trying to make a living and we're trying to keep more comfortable around the big sectors that are growing in tourism. Of course, we've all seen how important it is to have clear rules, e.g. for collection of tourist locations, etc. I'd just like to come to a meeting of the General and Education Committee this morning, where we received a representative from the Board of Education, the SINE and the Ministry of Education to discuss only the changes that have been discussed earlier today on student loans to Iceland except those attending foreign studies. To find out what really needs to be done by countries, there has been a lot of analysis work. It is the management board that makes the decision to meet this assessment, and the methodology is set there. We did a pretty good job on the Committee this morning. Clearly, with this as with other human works, there is always something that we need to consider. But the board decided to do this, and now we've been told how the numbers are found. We need to follow up on how we will react to the comments that have now been given regarding the results of that survey. But it's quite clear to lend a loan on progress, real progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u17	Mr. President. Today, May 3, is the International Day of freedom of the media. Unfortunately, Iceland is rapidly subjugated to the list of Transparency International, which values corruption in individual countries. Iceland is in the 19th and far behind other northern countries in the list of freedoms of the media, which was released in the wake of this day. Free and independent and powerful media that protect public interests are absolutely necessary to ensure transparency and management of governments, thus preventing corruption. Events of the past few weeks show beyond any doubt how important it is. The power of financiers who are highly motivated by political ideas and decisions over the influential media in Iceland is a major concern. One of the most powerful newspapers is owned by people who have been highly enriched by the power of justice to use the nation's common sea resources. Great interests are there by recommending that a price for use be revised in the interests of the common people. Organizations of the industry, which are highly supported by public funds and highly protected, can afford to publish a magazine spread throughout a country where the Massafaur is expelled propaganda for special interest. Thus, the public seems to cost them special care. It is essential for public interests, Icelandic society, and democracy in the country to have a government medium that is loyal to the public and no one else, independent of special interests, and protected from political interference. [[Up front.]] It's a big concern to see how politicians who are going through here right now, Mr. President, have tried to weigh RUS. The people must know how to protect this important organization. It's about the public interest, the active democracy, the transparency in the management of power and public resources, and the prevention of corruption and special interests that have been observed here in the last days and weeks. There, the nation's chief men have been on the front. Irina Bokova, president of UNESCO, said in a address for today's occasion, with the permission of a president: ▪ In times of global resolution and change, the need for high quality information has never been greater. [...] [[The president calls.]] All of this requires that a good soil be created so that freedom of the media can thrive and that the system works that ensures the right to information. [[The president calls.]] Let's stand up for the freedom of the media. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u18	A respectable president. So I've been wondering a lot lately what exactly we're doing here at the Council. As we have now, we have not been overlooked, as is the case with Icelandic politics, in the midst of a massive crisis following the Panama documents and the resignation of a former prime minister. In all parts of the community, we find that trust in Icelandic politics is at the bottom of the earth. We can see this in surveys showing that the largest group of political groups, 40 to50%, are not trusting to support any of these groups. Of course, it's a political crisis. At the Parliament, we are primarily arguing about whether my team is better than yours. Whether the board is great at making economic growth, which, of course, is, in the power of increased tourism and low oil prices, or that the government situation is so perfect because it's more than proportional in the Panama Documents or I don't know what. It has now been a whole month since then that the Council was given a chance. The government groups decided to proceed with the government in order to save national important matters. But we are still sort of waiting to see what is to be stressed. The community is talking about health matters, about young people's affairs, about the future, e.g. in connection with studies and LIIN options. I miss this kind of discussion here. Of course, we should continue to have a positive talk about debinos, but if the Council is to increase his confidence, we should show a color in what people in general are thinking about. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And by the way, this is coming summer. What's going on with us?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u19	V.E.G. President. I'm so glad we got there to pay the second round. vote on this matter. This is a provision consisting of short - term treatment for the NTSB and the restoration of the whole trial arrangement. There is one law that we postpone the discussion until the big bill that the Minister spoke here a few days ago and that we complete that discussion just there, but it is a great deal of joy and will lead to the improvement of all the provisions for this important matter and the duration of the treatment will be reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u20	A respectable president. I'm in on this case, i.e. which are expected to shorten the treatment period due to foreign shelters and applications for residence and living in the country. Yet, I want to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about what we are doing. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir made an advance in the hearing of this case and would like to address the importance of not reducing the quality of the service or rights or the security of the concerned person's rights. It's very important, but it makes who it is. It is in the hands of the Commission to understand the lawgiver's will in this matter. Of course, I'll pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u21	A respectable president. I know people who vote for this will do just fine. The objective is to shorten the trial, that is a noble goal. But I disagree with the approach and worry about the security of the defendants to the point that I don't trust myself to vote with the bill. I'd like to thank you, though. A full-scale and educational committee and its chairman particularly for the approach of the matter very objectively, paying attention to comments, and making changes in the greater part's proposals. I'll vote with point two for a change of motion and a 3rd point of that adjustment proposal, but otherwise I'll be sitting by the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u22	V.E.G. President. For five years, economic policies and financial programs on the basis of new laws on public finance are now laid for the first time before the Council. The purpose of financial policy is to set a general objective for public financial development that is open to agreement. The budget includes further implementation of financial policy targets for income, expenses, and economics for public citizens. It's the budget policy. It's the course. The budget will tell you how calm it will be. By enunciating a law on public finances at this time of the year, an important step was taken to trust in the management of public financial matters and to promote greater discipline in public society's strategy, focusing on long - term economic stability. The law contains strict rules on survival and debt development, so - called financial rules. One of the most remarkable reports in the budget is that, according to Article 7, there are good prospects for two of the financial policies. The law will be met in both the first two years of the programme, with a positive overall balance over the entire five-year period and a reduction in the total debt of the government, state and community to 30% of the gross domestic product. Such results promise good results that they will be able to provide the basis for using the resources that are available at the same time to coordinate the financial affairs of the state and of the community and to improve government, as it is planned for new laws on public finances. Much of this matter is important that the automatic debt collection of state funds has been stopped, debt is dropping, and more importantly, how well it has been accomplished in the implementation of measures in connection with the uptrodents of fallen financial companies and a budget removal programme. These two interpretation proposals are now under discussion, and they are brought together in one discussion instead of two, as would have been possible. So it is necessary to assume here that these terms of action are not the same, so I will first break down key issues of financial policy, but later introduce my talk into the financial program, which is presented on the basis of the goals presented in financial policy. A respectable president. The key elements of the financial policy presented here focus on the objectives of development and the debt of government, state, and rural society, as shown in the financial policy table. It is aimed that for the next five years, the total benefit of the official positive result will be at least 1% of national production annually, i.e. Part A and Part A of a rural society, in order to maintain economic stability in the state and lower the debt of the state by law-bound debt. That amounts to some 170 billion dollars. What is left over the rest of the rest over the next five years. The agreement between the state and rural society, signed on April 18 last year in the policy-making process, has agreed to assume that all the rest of the public waste will be made at the A-part of the State Fund, but the recovery of the A-part rural society will be balanced over the period. The meeting place is the first one to be done on the basis of a new law until one year. Governments and rural areas agree to support common stability by following these targets, thus contributing to lower growth, more stability, and higher level of employment. To that end, this is a landmark meeting between the state and rural society. It may be difficult to apply the desired level of government property in the coming years where the need for necessary structure is being developed in society's infrastructure. Low maintenance and investment levels over the past few years, along with gross growth in tourism services, have called for increased structure in pilot activities as well as investments in energy production and electricity distribution. Thus, government policy is that the overall survival of the official public at steady state will be in 2017 and 2018, but then it will result in an increase of about 1% of the gross domestic product on average in 2019◯2021. Governments, in addition to the rest of their targets, have set debts that include the total debt of the A State Fund down significantly during the period from about 32% of gross domestic product at the end of 2016 to about 21% of gross domestic product at the end of 2021. To achieve such a challenging goal, there is far more to it than leftovers on the increase, which is 1% of gross domestic product each year. The estimated decrease in debt ratio is largely due to growth in domestic product production over the period, but a substantial proportion, corresponding to about 180 billion decreases in the value of the debt over the period, based on specific criteria for the provision of irregular revenues, sale of assets in financial institutions to a number of degrees and measures in the reimbursement of certain loans. Furthermore, it is legally legal that the stability of the bank population will be spent in the reduction of debt. A respectable president. The financial policy is based on a practical economic outlook for the period. Economic conditions in this country have improved over the past loss and have shown most practical evidence of progress at present and in the coming years. The overall demand for economy is rapidly returning after a heavy dip following the collapse of the bank in the fall of 2008. According to Economic Standards, since the end of February, the growth of national spending was 6.2% in 2015, 5.8% in 2016, and 4.2% in 2017, after which the growth rate slows down to 2.5% to the end of the programme. This year, in the sixth year of continued economic growth, this economic forecast is followed by uninterrupted economic growth to 2021 will be the longest economic growth in the modern economic history of the country. The foundation of this trend is high growth in private consumption and even more in the investments of the industry at present. Last night, the ASI economy showed that there was a high economic growth and that it was positive that it was based on a solid foundation, where the buyer power is driving on the growth of its private consumption rather than on the payment of its households. It's all at the same well. In spite of high pay increases in labour contracts, both in the general labour market and in the public sector, which have led to considerably greater financial gain than expected. Why is inflation so low? Well, most of the prices have been brought from business countries, including low oil prices and raw prices, and because the crown's gang has also been getting stronger. At the same time, unemployment has fallen a lot. However, production has taken place, and there is a measure of concern, and this can reduce the growth of potential production in the economy. As a result of this trend, the production plant has disappeared, and there has been an imbalance in overall demand and production capacity. However, it does not seem reasonable to expect that the gap that has begun will be in line with the quality of the years for the collapse of the banking system in which there is not nearly as much expansion in the total demand or inexpension that expands on the flow of inexpensive funds. This is not the same debt that we previously saw, much more sound foundations for this growth. However, a large intertime effect of larger investments and construction projects may create considerable tensions in the construction and industrial sector or, depending on individual events. Also, the financial system is solid, based on domestic funding, no longer in risky foreign positions, and it is a business that has a strong personal value. So the situation is somewhat clear; it is clear to look forward as long as a responsible, stable economy is established on the basis of a realistic financial strategy. A respectable president. So I dispute with the budget itself. This discussion provides an opportunity to discuss policy. How should we share the burdens between public members in supporting our stability? How does the council take a course like this that that goes up with a total of 1%? What view do we have regarding the development of debt? What view do we have about how much more we can allow the State to take to himself or to dominate public authorities in current economic situations? These are basic financial questions. But back to the budget itself. It is important that we succeed in going through this discussion, as it is thought - provoking, since we look especially at the wide lines and what lies ahead. It's not a budget for next year, but we're drawing up the financial outlines of the budget. As debt is paid down and the state's huge growth rate is reduced over the years, there will be increased distances to build up socially important structures, to lighten the loads of workers with lower taxes, and to trust in much of the basic services of the state, including higher recoverys to those with the halls, largely successful health systems, and higher levels of education at all levels. Thus, we actually enjoy benefits for future generations and many opportunities for young people who want to live and work here. And this is what this financial program really is about. It paints a picture that says that in view of the marked transition for the better in the financial affairs of recent losses and a good standing in the economy, there is an enormous opportunity for Iceland to increase the well - being of all in this country, taking advantage of the opportunities ahead of us to build up even more and to live in the best interests of ourselves. All the top economics and economics indicate that the benefit of Iceland's people is getting very much better. The commitments of the households go down. The pay of people increases in excess of inflation at the same time as unemployment and employment factors have increased dramatically. What positive news this is for homes in the country! During the past 12 months, pay has increased so much that we have not measured the same level of money since the beginning of measurements in 1989. This is what the numbers for the last 12 months tell us. We also see on other indicators that measure social prosperity that we are moving in the right direction and that we take a position with countries that are achieving the best global success, whether on the basis of the polls like the Social Progress Index, by permission of the President, and I allow me to quote a second report made by OECD, Society at a Glossance. These reports tell us this story. A report on such references 2015 also shows that income distribution in 2014 has not been greater in Iceland for ten years, whether using a Giin or a fifth index, and has greatly reduced the lack of material quality. New reports from Eurostat confirm that no greater equation was made in Europe than in Iceland in 2014. Of course, it is not that each person sees his debts fall as a percentage of land production. Most people do not wonder what they owe as a percentage of land production, but the whole set, about the total property of households as a share of land production, reports a history of how homes in general are developing. What people are primarily concerned about is the next month, the immediate future, how they pay and other provisions for what is needed for them and for that month and that and for that year. But there's no question about it that all the practical people I've been referring to here give a good story about us getting up in the right direction, and actually not just fogging, we're making rapid progress on this loss. We also know that the situation of some social groups, such as the elderly and the desperate, is still fragile, and people in the lower pay steps find it difficult to make ends meet. It is not enough to point out an increase in money alone if it is not at the same time a fair and just exchange between all who share in the community. There must not be any groups of society directly left behind. I believe the numbers we have today show that everyone is participating in the biography application. It does not say that we have achieved final goals. The task is never over, but we will continue to take better care of these factors, the weak and the least to play. The positive news of what we now have in our hands in this council resolution is that we are better off, after a relatively few years from the fall of financial companies, and the problems they faced, to get into position to trust even more the foundation of the welfare of society. In this connection, I especially want to guess that there are numbers in the program that show evolution on various subsidies. You need to be careful when reading the synonym proposal that a large part of the increase that will appear in the social security system is inside a team called pay and prices. This is because compensation will follow what is higher in the future. This is an important thing. I would also like to say, in general, that it will, without a doubt, take some time for humans to understand this new presentation, since it is recently accepted a law, it is a new practice, it is a new perspective that we are publishing on the official finance, and it is only natural for humans to take time to understand it fully; and of course, that this will also be a part of the shape of the budget that will follow the next budget, this change of course. A respectable president. I'm going to briefly address some of the key aspects of the income and charge plan and, hence, the implementation plan, the one we're here with. In terms of the decision-making programme specifically; it is shaped by a good national interest level and the changes in the tax system that have already been legalized. In particular, the midpoint of income taxes goes away at the next year, while 93% of those paying income taxes fall below the middle stage and the next year down the lower level. Tolllar will be eliminated from all products except certain foods. At that time, the income side of the programme has been expected to include a number of temporary and irregular income changes during the planned period, such as bank taxation and stability returns; this is especially due to bank taxes and stability donations. If we compare the past few years with looking into the future, there are considerable fluctuations in the income side, which are largely explained by temporary tax strains or monopolitan incomes. For example, in 2016, which is not part of this five - year program, we are looking up at the very sum of the total wealth that is likely to have no precedent explained by such monocommunication factor, which is the stabilisation process. In previous schedules, we have assumed that the bank tax will be with us longer into the future, and we need to consider that when men compare this long-term plan with their previous long-term programmes; the fact that the worn - out agreements will be completed late in the last year, they will have an effect on the income side of the next two years. There is also a measure of scope for certain tax measures, such as a reduction in insurance fees from the middle of this year, and on the income side there will be a meeting of planned revenues, such as an increase in the level of stayavers and a change in the rules of marriage contracts. Then the budget plan. The policy for GDP aims to ensure that at least 1% of the remainder of the budget will be met. It is mainly assumed that the actual growth of the budget gate will not exceed the growth of land production until 2021 but that the proportion of primarys without irregular joints will remain unchanged over the period. Following the policy measures, there is a considerable increase in the scope of the problems in the fields of advisers. More detailed distribution and disunition to individual lawsuits, and then to institutions, a financial bill of each year and a follow-up will be published. However, the key factors are: Approximately 14 billion room for 2017 is expected to be distributed to specific areas of matter. So here we are talking about an additional vector space on the budget side of the initials compared to 2016. During the exchange of space, special emphasis was consulted, however, to a high degree, for health, education, and law enforcement purposes to get more priority. In addition, between 2018 and 2021, more annual budgets are expected as well as to be divided into individual grammatical areas of employing quality and priority, some 7 billion dollars. every year. In addition to other growths, the additional range of interest is available in key spending areas allows us to have moderate physical growth in the media over time. A combined collection of budgets goes to a new and more than 42 billion projects during the period. There we are talking about 42 billion at the rate of this year. Of these, about 45% of the budget is expected to be reassigned to health care and about 20% for education and culture. Other factors suggest that the maximum pay of the source ordinary funds will be increased, and the management base of high school will be strengthened, along with child reforms and compensations, as well as a year - by - year failure margin in the system. The estimate is that in the next year or more than 30 billion accumulated in 2021, making up more than 200 billion dollars! This amounts to an increase of 18% in the time period. This increase is not an exception to any raise in pay. We're just talking about the business team, we don't have a salary in these numbers, such as doctors and nurses. This will be added during the period as well as in other climate change events. In this context, it is proper to mention that most of the medical expenses involved in paying the institutions and the government's contracts on health care based largely on pay expenses. This is a significant increase and enables us to improve the quality and safety of the service, improve the staff's facilities, and ensure that patients have equal access to national services. These are health - care projects ahead of us. A respectable president. The budget also means that there will be a number of investment projects that have been considered or planned during the past few years, but it has not been considered to be possible to finance and end up in the home business, with a huge burden of Kingdom interest, following the collapse of the bank in the fall of 2008. The financial and national support has now been strengthened, and thus construction can be financed with a marked increase in the regular income of the state's funds. It is not expected that these projects will be spent by irregular temporary incomes of the state funds. I mention some of the main: construction projects on the first task of a new hospital, especially the treatment core, which is now the heart of the hospital and is being designed, and a laboratory. This will be offered out as soon as design is completed and the project will then be fully developed. Another example is the impressive contributions to build up infrastructure in tourist areas. Buying new helicopters for the D.A., we know of the budget of the past few years that we spend a lot of money renting helicopters for D.A. We've arranged here for two helicopters to be bought for the D.A., as it has been for a long time. The production of a new Western island vector will take place within this programme until the next five years. That project is funded according to the plan. Similarly, in the course of transport, an animal tunnel, which has been widely discussed recently, in itself is named elsewhere in a transport program. Building a building on the Capitol, building new nursing homes, building an English - school program that has been delayed is an example of the investments we see here. These and other important tasks are to be handled wisely. Yet, the positive economic prospects that will be faced in the years ahead are not quite there, and especially if we are unable to begin. It is a grueling jacket that will turn out best in the present situation. They need to be careful that the budget supports other economic policies, such as the money policy, in order to reduce the risk of overheating and instability in the economy. A respectable president. I've traced some of the key elements of the plan and financial policy. I would appreciate the importance of the following development of a policy-specific debate because it is such a core and merely a review: The financial policy will always be established for the off-limits, and it will be a guide to the government for the next few years, while the financial programme will be updated every year. I expect here various views of doing things like this rather than queer, to be critical of individual languages that are not guaranteed enough money. It would be best for a grammatical discussion of fundamentals, such as this that the way in which one accepted the needed changes would be made to achieve such goals. In my mind, this is the way we are in this government-of-the-art program, based on the economic situation, but we're aiming at 1% total rest throughout the programme period. I think that's adequate, but the rest cannot be kept very much in order to perform new assignments. We are also watching that in five years, we are going to allow the budget to grow by 10%. It would be nice to think about it for a moment. I don't think there will be many decades in which we can allow the primary charges to grow by 10% so that those who will be involved in this discussion are critical that the original charges will not grow any more, then explaining how it should be possible to be done in the long term without the addition of major productions in Iceland and other fundamental changes. I think it would be good for the rest of the discussion, if they want to take the lead in saying that on the expense side there is not enough growth, that we just take the discussion to see if it should happen in such a way that people walk on the till or if they are going to stress the use of property sales for business or how other people are going to finance it. In the end, I believe that the project that we adopted, by working on public financial laws, standing and falling by what traditions and habits are formed here at the General conference in discussions of these matters for a long time, that when we are discussing these matters, we do not skim directly into a kind of financial debate, but we are able to direct our attention to the broad lines; and then men can deal with whether to be greater or less overall, more or less from paying up debt, whether the rights of the compromises. This is what the discussion should be about. The strategy we face here is designed to balance between these factors, to bring good results that are important under the circumstances, to pay off a debt that is important, not just because of the financial principle, but because we have covered too much in interest for too long. We have a need to bring down the debt before the economy is resolved, but at the same time, we need to allow for extra spending to become important causes. [[The president calls.]] I believe that there is a balanced balance, and I present it here, a respectable president, as soon as I suggest that the matter be referred to. The legal committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the tour and the speech. I am truly happy that the policy and plan have arrived at the council, but criticism is at the same time that it is late, or it is too late for a month, when it is under official financial laws. Of course, we on a budget and other committees will review policy and plan and ask questions. But I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to what is presented in the financial program on health matters. Now, with its signature, nearly 90,000 people have demanded that the increase in money be spent for health care. The plan says that contributions to health will be expected to reach more than 30 billion dollars. higher in 2021. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Maintain both business and stock costs within this 30 billion dollars.? I can't find it when reading the schedule. Is the land hospital in there? But the new building, fixes at the Hospital in Akureyri, and nursing homes? If so, the highest. Ministers that the plan will achieve the aim of increasing the need for service because of the population's increasing age and requiring that health - care services be improved throughout the country? Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is this five - year schedule expected to reduce the total cost of patients at the health care provider? We know the bill that changes the distribution of patients so that the payment of patients with long-term disease will be reduced. I'm asking, is it the patient's total cost factor? Will it be reduced in the five-year period of the program? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u24	A respectable president. The increase in health problems we will discuss here is out of the range of my pay increases. In this regard, it is proper to assume that most of the money for health care is paid. Among the projects that are part of the program are the provision plan of the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri, temporary contributions, the building of the hospital's Hospital, the design of the treatment core, the application of construction projects for the hospital, efforts to shorten the waiting list, building and operating of three new nursing homes, funding for the daily GDLA budget, large increases of donations for the S-marked medicinal products, measures for hepatitis C, a significant increase in the exact amount of expenses needed to cover issues that fall under medical conditions during the period, which are still being implemented in particular ways of distribution to individual journals, projects and institutions. I don't think there's ever going to be a ignoring of a direct cost of stock money is one of the most important things we can apply to ourselves in the coming years at the medical field. It is now quite an alpha and an Omega of health discussions after we were calm about the staff issues, which, for example, were in a strike just over a year ago and obtained long - term contracts for purchases and terms in the profession. The next step is to improve the situation for increased safety and patient safety. In this respect, the biggest individual operation is the hospital. In terms of the credit system, specific donations are not expected to be supplemented in the accounting system during the programme period, which would be then designed to reduce the patient's payment. However, there is evidence that government policy is followed by a simplified system to consider where we would need to further reduce the patient's payment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I understand that there are 30 billion species of groundwork and that it is not expected that the overall cost of involved in the patient's health - care costs will be reduced during this period. The plan shows that children's goals are supported only by the most efficient families. I was surprised to read it because I somehow assumed that we wanted to pursue the child - welfare process more so than what happens elsewhere in the North. According to the plan, a review of the child - welfare system will be made in the building of the World Bank Fund. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Wouldn't it have been better to go to the northern countries and look for role models in the child - welfare system there? This has been very effective there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u26	A respectable president. We plan that approximately 60 billion will go to health care during the planned period when the salary and prices are included. That's about 30 billion, especially because of the cost of operating and building. Much of it will be involved in the complete design and implementation of the hospital. Regarding child reform, there are special differences in the viewpoint at the council as to how far the child - reform system should be used. I've wanted to look at the children's relief systems in relation to the tax system and other reform systems at the same time, such as interest improvements, such as housing now available to the council, which include the plan to consider family size, and to think about it, as the World Bank made in a relatively recent report presented to the Icelandic government, whether there are other means of reaching out to those who have the greatest need for assistance. Throughout history, however, less income and possessions have been viewed as a factor in child - welfare benefits than in various other improving systems. [[The president calls.]] This is especially true in the North countries where there has been very little question as to whether public transfers and support are needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u27	Mr. President. I thank the secretary of finance for the speech and agree that it's fine that this case has been presented for the first time in the presentation. I'd like to ask you about financial advice. It was to be arranged for financial counsel to be made, and on the basis of today's program, there are four weeks before giving the Senate a review of this much policy and plan. So I think it's very special that it hasn't already been done, and I thought it should have been part of it. Therefore do I ask, Has it been formed or has it been made by men? If not, when does the minister assume that it will be done? V.E.G. A minister spoke of the broad lines, that we had to approach them together, but that is now very different from what we have. tax politics and, for example, the Minister's plans, is such as... The rate to be taken to a historical minimum next year. It's something that we left green have talked about, having her as low as this one shows. What I'm worried about is the state's underlying income stocks. There have been a number of advantages, oil prices, travel services, bank tax, and stability proposals, while the government's income stocks have been systematically weakened and the minister intends to continue running on his own consumption. I'd like to remind you that before a crash taxes were to a minimum too, including fiscal taxes, but this did not necessarily result in paying the taxes on their income but was taken from the country into a tax bill, as we have recently heard. But most of all, I'm asking about financial advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u28	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator felt that financial counsel would have already been fully ordered. However, there is a need to make appointments, one from the prime minister and the other from the council. It has to be done. We will need to consider that with regard to the outworking of this matter. I know that I'm working hard to get the meetings together. It has been discussed with some individuals whether they could be assigned to the council, and not all who have been contacted have been in a position to accept it. But I guess I'll have these appointments for everyone in the next few days, at the latest. You know, with the tax political bitch, everything's just right. A senator says. Discussing these matters with government tax policy is a natural part of the discussion. I don't agree that the government has been working here to weaken the taxes. I don't agree with that. If we take, for example. The sum of taxes has been greatly appreciated since we decided to make some changes in the percentages and to reduce the number of taxes, with lower lengths, the lowest of which we have had. The honor tax is about 200 billion tax stocks for the state. I say the same applies to the changes in income tax, which may include has been important in creating peace in a labour market, for example, because of middle - income workers. It was the first time that the government explained its emphasis on the income tax system, which finally took up treaties on the public market. I could keep going. However, the main focus on the income line is the disappearance of various temporary income institutions of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u29	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. I was reminded that it is only two weeks that we have but not four because the time of financial management from now on was shorter during the council. It's not a long time, and we have to have quick hands. I think it's on the government party to finish that case. I think the smaller part of it has appointed its deputy. With regard to the tax issue, we don't agree. I believe that the very value tax and so forth was a burden to those with the lowest income. It is noted about older citizens and the desperate to assume that they can earn their own money and that they do not need pension money, that is the goal. So I would like to ask, " How do the Minister sees that particularly poor people, but, of course, older citizens, can make their own money and not need public insurance pensions? ' [[The president calls.]] How does he picture it in the prax?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u30	A respectable president. I don't believe that this points to what we've been working on in the last few decades, that those outside the labour market have the handsome pension rights that it will less test the social security system at the age of pension. But just how different this may look for some age groups is one of the problems we live in today's world. We have generations that need today, and yet for a few years into the future, we have a great deal of confidence in the social security system for forwarding. But at the same time, the rights have been changing so much for the young generation in the country that there is no reason to believe that people who will put aside all their careers will need to maintain legal rights like those in the social security system at the time of the upper year, not unless they go into any ideas such as citizens's pay or other things, to pay them entirely regardless of the need for further support. Obviously, this is true in another way - by microorganisms and by those who have lost their jobs and the possibility of acquiring themselves. That's a different story. Our systems are supposed to be so built up to my opinion that we do our utmost to support the handsome ones who really need support. It is at the same time an incentive for all to save themselves and to be built into the systems so that people may be obligated to do obligatory and legalize, where appropriate, to set aside good older years ago. Just as the pension system assumes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u31	A respectable president. I wish to the highest. Secretary of the budget is happy with this financial plan. I really like that we've come to a place where we're looking ahead. I like it on the ground, but I don't agree with the politicians in the plan. Still, I would have liked to have a ◯index◯ in front of you. I always feel that it's a little better not to be repeating yourself. If you can have something on pages 150 that now contain 200, it is worth going through the document, shortening it, and making it available to as many people as possible. I just want to go into an investment that may not grow much, but there are important tasks, such as the Minister of Ministers, the Landstics, the new Shepherds, and other things. After all that has taken place, there is a tremendous need for more infrastructure, especially in the transport system. We still have bridges, and many on the highways, it needs to be cremated and so forth. They need money for this, but at the same time, we're kind of in the expansion environment, so it's a challenge. I wondered if a minister would agree with me that it would be good to put more money on investments. The reason why this is not being done may be to some extent to hold back the pressure. Yet, this government is always ready to make taxes. One way to hold back the pressure is not to go to taxes, perhaps even to raise taxes. Is it not reason for us to have a good health care system, the infrastructure, start building a land hospital, and also have to be carried out in Akureyri, the quarter hospital there, and have to do business on the roads and transport systems, look further at tax revenues, reduce the charge through private consumption, and do not go to taxes, e.g. Like going to these two tax steps? Although it's already been decided, I don't necessarily think it's a good idea. Is it not easier to let those who have a substantial share in the work of the hands and to reduce their private consumption at the same time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u32	A respectable president. In terms of the investment level, I agree that once we look at the A-part State Fund, it's still very low in historical context. Here, however, we are suggesting that the public goes to 1.5% during the latter part of the programme. In the long run, I think it might be found somewhere near 2% that shows how much is missing. We don't see much space to increase this ratio much, including Because of all the investments planned for the private sector, and there are very large projects that I traced into my introductions in business at state owners, such as 20 billion investments this year at the airport in Keflavík. Landnet has a plan to strengthen the electrical power system, high numbers are mentioned in this context, etc. In terms of individual taxes, our changes have been made over a period of time. We have opposed the tax increases announced as a special provision for the state's office. When we consider what causes tension in the economy, it is obvious that much more is involved in the workforce and the huge increase in pay has been required than with the changes in the income tax system we have used. We have reached our assignment, so we wanted a more reasonable tax system. We feel that it is more reasonable with two paces and a high personality discount than in a three - step system. I recollect that these changes were an important part of meeting contracts in general markets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u33	A respectable president. I'm going to go back to the other side, just talking about my societies. As I read from the numbers, their business and debt appear to be basically in irons for more and less the next few years, although something broke down toward the end of the period. There's been talk of a business exchange between state and rural society, and I think I'll be right about it when I say that part of the country's administration to rural society is nowhere so small in the OECD countries as in this country. The rural population has e.g. calling for income from capital tax, i.e. that those who pay capital taxes do not pay an answer. Just as rural societies do not pay financial taxes to the State or even not even a valuable tax, there are other requirements and, of course, financial support for projects. So I would like to ask: Is there anything going on with this government to look at any change in this money exchange between state and rural society? I can't find it in the plan. In some ways, I can live up to the needs of my community in this regard. [[The president calls.]] Now the State is extending its hands, but rural society still seems to be in trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u34	A respectable president. I have made it a theme of everything I've put into practice in the financial affairs of the state to try to build up for further stability. While the State has too much debt and high interest costs, government funds are not a place to leave large amounts of income stocks in the country. When the debt ratios are down to the limit we've established ourselves long - term and are set in such a way by our rural society that they find it difficult to improve their survival and continue debt, but many of them are committed to us, I'm sure we're wondering how it's fair to go into the future because I've never thought that countries and rural societies are involved in a business for some particular profit. We are just performing a public service to improve the standard of living in the country. If there is a conflict between the state and the community, it should be considered, and it will be examined all the time on the basis of these laws and then the basis for an agreement made each year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u35	Mr. President. In accordance with official financial laws, financial programs should be submitted to five years on April 1 each year. As noted, we will discuss the first financial program under the laws on public finance and economic policy. She's a month late. If the objective of the government law is to be met, the law must be followed. The idea of financial and financial policies and the values set out by law to pass through them is good, but it is not helpful if governments do not comply with the law. I strongly criticize that financial policy and plan did not come to the council at the right time. The map reduces the space the members of the Parliament have to work with and make comments with the plan. By 13. Act on official financial and economic agencies ordering financial and financial counsels. The role of the budget board is to evaluate whether financial and financial policies are in line with the baseline values listed at 2 mg. Section 6. The law and the conditions of the 7th. On the financial rules. The opinion of a financial body should be published publicly. No more than two weeks after the proposal for a hearing of financial policy or financial strategy has been submitted to the General, or a proposal for action on the change to the current programme, the General Council shall submit its comments to the General Commission. Mr. President. V.E.G. Financial and economic ministers have not yet ordered financial counsel that should be submitted its resignation until May 13. Both financial and financial contributions are laid down and at the height. Since I have not yet been disappointed by a minister of finance, it seems that I do not have the law on public finances and their goals. The financial policy shows that economic developments and prospects indicate that the traditional Icelandic demand spending is still under way or under way. In such circumstances it is not enough to reduce the demand influence of state and community investments; just as it is important to ensure that government enterprises do not add to the problem by means of investments that can wait and desirable to be more aggressive when slowing down. These include transport energy resources and projects. There is evidence that the economy can overheat and inflation will trigger if public control is not maintained. Although economic forecasts are practical, it is important now that we follow the official financial and financial policies of the Federal Bank and move in the same direction rather than pull on the same direction as before the collapse of the economy. Then there would be trouble for an individual and company in the country. In the financial structure, this is repeated and rightly pointed out that the application of the government's financial resources can reduce economic swings and thus contribute to stability, which is one of the main objectives of a new legal law on public finances. In part, the chapter on the economic issues of the State budget states, by permission of a president: ▪ In line with baseline new laws on government finance, the successful government of government should aim for an eco-efficiency, not eco-efficiency. Under this, I take my mind. What I'm critical of, however, is how the government wants with its plan to use the balance potentials of government spending and who it is in the community that are supposed to take on stability. Mr. President. An tax policy should take into account the position of the economic fluctuation at any time. All efforts should be made to make the move so that the race is well prepared to take on the next downturn. Hence, tax and tax costs should not be reduced, as has been done, and it is totally unacceptable that those who are least in need receive the greatest benefit of Kingdom interests. With the pay and tax policy of the person who has been running during the election season, the emphasis on both financial and financial policies is not being adhered to. The reduction in the cost of billions of dollars, the detriment of a fiscal tax on other things, such as the reduction of income taxes by three levels to two, is all measures that will benefit those in the community. As a result, the tax pay of the state's funds becomes less than what it might have been. It affects the development of income that is being set aside in a financial program for the government during 2017/2021. The government's decisions on tax declines increase the amount of money in traffic and cause the economic crisis to be greater if nothing is done. Actions to the highest level. To reduce the impact of the government's paying of lower taxes and taxes, the government takes on public service to those in need of it. The procedures take place on health, education, and social security services. Thus, the ministry will not be improved as necessary. Transport investments are also less than needed. This is a key factor in the financial program of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, taxes, and the more prosperous ones are being held low, and as a result, the welfare services are not improved to the extent necessary to live up to their names. The benefits of a government fund do not yield to the public to the extent that there is greater wealth, for injustice according to the highest plan. Governments to sustain the next five years will succeed. Among other things, about child welfare, says the President's permission: In line with the aim of a simple tax system, the child - relief system is aimed at reevaluating to simple and more efficient efficiency. At the request of the financial and economic minister, the World Bank Department (AGS) won an assessment of income taxation between individuals and children and growth reforms with further improvements in view. The report of the fund was that their review was significantly needed toward simplicity, as well as increasing the need for these benefits to a low - income home. This may include a reduction in the rate of children's improvement and a substantial increase from the current level. It is also suggested that only one fixed amount of money be paid for each child under 18 years of age, regardless of family type, and never more children than three. Second place says about child reform, by permission of the President: At the same time, a variety of baits must be tailored to an undesirable effect on the system. This is to be done by the failure of a child's parents to sign up for higher child benefits as a single parent. The arrangement must then be adjusted for child support in some cases to reach too much of the income crisis that counteracts the primary objective of being solely supportive of the most efficient family. There we go. The primary objective of child making is that they will be supported only by the most efficient families in the country. It's the highest-level policy. Governments that appear in the five-year plan. I don't feel that this is an acceptable goal and far from the goals set by the other northern nations. In other parts of the North countries, families of young children are far more concerned about child reform. They are there to match the position of the children to the position of the non - children. The North American welfare system should be consulted rather than for the International Cash Fund for implementation of children's families in this country. Mr. President. There are many fine sentences in financial policy and financial programs that can be addressed. It's just that there's not much action plans to do with them. For example, a list of criteria for the shape of financial programmes suggests that when the income side of the state's budget is started to grow during economic growth in economic conditions, such as in fishing and tourism, it is necessary to trust in the financial status of the state and to live in a better way in order to allow less economic conditions, which may sooner or later come to a less economic growth or even aggravate as shown. Under this, I suppose we can all agree. But what has been done, such as in the traveling service? Evidently, the number of tourists has increased dramatically in the country's roads, law enforcement, health care, and medical transportation without any apparent increase in enough financial resources. The financial programme allows for maintenance costs to rise from $100 per cent. of 300 K. There is little room for the pressures of tourism. In fact, when it comes to this large and least - increasing industry in the country, government failure is incredible. During the past few years, the number of foreign tourists has increased greatly. The financial program has specified the rise of 30% between 2014 and 2015 for tourists and is predicting an increase of up to 37% this year. This high increase could lead to serious consequences. The danger is that investments will be overcome in the article with the related problems involved. Much progress has been made recent in this article, as well as plans for great projects to take place ahead of us. The financial programme says, among other things, about travel services, by permission of the president: Although it is important to balance the economic impact of this article, it is no less important to consider controlling the number of tourists in areas where the river has reached tolerability. And what will the government do about this? Yes, they're going to raise the checkout fee from $100. of 300 K. and this will not have a major impact on the economic impact of this article. The financial programme speaks of a review of taxes and costs in the tourism service as a consistent operation to balance the competitiveness of the sector within the country. I agree with that. In this connection, tourists are directly concerned with paying a valuable tax on the general level of lodging and recreation, but not on lower levels, as they are now. Why should tourists receive an exception from a general value tax level when considering the position the tourism has as a national sector? The decision of 24% of cost taxes on hosting and recreation for tourists would make what is discussed in the financial programme the need to do, both to balance the competitive state of the industry within the country and to stabilise the economic impact of this article. It also states in the plan that the introduction of Iceland outside the summer season was more hopeful and that the number of tourists increased in those days. During the winter months, there was an increase in the variety of tourists. Thus, the use of hotels in the capital area is the largest in Europe. Increased demand has been shown with increasing supply instead of increasing prices. Sadly, if governments fail to intervene and control the development of tourism, the outcome will be poor. The greatest danger is that investments will not be useful and costs for the development of this article will be affected in the general population in the event of a disaster. The roads that break under pressure and are not maintained and the pressures of police and health care professionals will then take on the inhabitants of this country. In this regard, a lack of activity and the lack of control by the government can actually be dangerous to human health. Mr. President. The five - year program has many beautiful words. But they get empty when you look at plans, for these beautiful words do not contain much or practical solutions. Mr. President. We will now have the opportunity to cooperate with the plan, to ask questions, and to make adjustments. The general body of law is to receive the review of the Council of Economic Affairs on May 13, the second to use in the discussion of policy and plan, but I can't see that we're going to get it, because it's got the highest. Minister not ordered the council. I'm aware that the government has appointed its representatives, but it's under the governments' category of law, a highly accepted new release law on public financial matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u36	A respectable president. I just want to introduce the role of taxes in this context and over the pace. I remember that not many years ago when I spoke up that we were about to lower taxes and with the homes in the country, they didn't say it was time. They said it wasn't time because the government fund was too debt and because we first had to recover from these tragic events. They went so far as to say the person standing here terribly irresponsible in his political state before the last election, talking about reducing taxes under these circumstances. It wasn't because there was so much expansion in the economy. No, it was because we hadn't gotten over it yet, we'd still be hurting. We did not listen to this. We reduced our taxes. We reduced expenses, reduced tolls, reduced income taxes, and allowed our schedule to be run by a number of temporary farms that had been established. Then there is a relatively short period of time. Some time ago, I began to learn that the reason why taxes could not be lowered was because the economy had become so tense. This is yet another example of what we have heard so often before that it is as if it is never the time to ease people's spirits, as if it was a special goal to keep the taxes relatively high. There is always some reason to use the tax revenue. That's what I wanted to come by. I also wanted to come because the money taxes were meant to be temporary. I can't remember better than that. A senator has made it quite clear before the last election that he would run his course. It is now said that it was a mistake to let him run his course. The decrease in income taxation we have used for has mainly been among the middle - income workers. It's wrong what is said here, that these have been most relevant to those who have most in their hands. [[The president calls.]] And we have even lowered the bottom step.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u37	Mr. President. Yeah, we've been living in the tax policy of the right party in this country too long. What happened before the collapse did not lead us to a good place into the crisis. Before a collapse, public investments were here, and taxes were dropped. It affected the culture of society and the inflation. In this phase, we entered the collapse. Of course, it was not possible to reduce taxes when the sum of money was 216 billion dollars. I don't think anyone's gonna think of that. A thin line had to be found by raising taxes, cutting down services, and making sure that the burdens of the crash did not fall on those who would need State service. Now we're in a swing. Then this government will use the opportunity to reduce hunting costs, eliminate wealth taxes, and take steps to level the status of people from the income tax system. Of course, all of this affects the income of the wealth of the state and the public service that those who need it. We're talking about paybacks at health care, high-level education restrictions, payoffs to those who only live in insurance companies, etc. Regarding the step, it's like those with 450 points. K. in 2017, you get 3 points. K. A discount. It's also given to those with 800 yards. K. Or more, they're also given 3 yous. K. A discount. [[The president calls.]] Those with 700 points. K. Of course, 12 of you. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u38	A respectable president. Regarding what happened here during the years before the collapse of the banking system, it is important to remember that from 2005 and 2006, we underestimate the economy. If we'd had information on how much economic growth was, I think they'd have taken action to strike the spell as if it had been better to do so. I feel that there is a lack of money in a government fund, that there is a lack of tax pay to do some work. The fact is, however, that in the next five years, we have an additional hundred billion people left over. There is no need for income in a government fund to cover new expenses. All you have to do is decide what your expenses are. The policy to speak for higher taxes is probably solely intended to achieve goals other than money. There is no need for additional income in this program to meet the objectives of saving, of paying off debts. There has been a long time before that the best way for us to get further results in subsidies is to sell property, as men have always spoken to, on the contrary. In no time period, hunting costs have been taken more than in the last three years. We are currently taking tens of billions of dollars in hunting fees. It's not in itself the problem of this strategy, it's just another politics. The question is, How far should we take some of the productions of the State and the common fund? I don't think it in itself is a factor that affects the goals we are discussing here on the financial and financial agenda. It says that if you speak for a higher tax, you must answer to the point to which you are being directed. [[The president calls.]] Is this to raise the cost level that still goes up 10%? Or is it something else? And they're just supposed to say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u39	Mr. President. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. I think it's the best. Economic and financial ministers talk as if he didn't write his own financial policy and financial plans. Of course, we need to watch which crowns are circulating in the economy. If we have reduced taxes and fees for those who have much money between them, we will be affected by the amount of money in the traffic system. There is something else that needs to be done so that inflation does not start here. That is exactly what we are discussing in the economic and financial sectors. We as superiors want a righteous income tax system, which is step - apart so that the rich also share their fair share in the tax and the money that goes into government funds. [[It's the biggest equation in Iceland.]] - Here's what's called the biggest equation in Iceland. Again, the report is quoted in 2013 as the natural success of the last government. [[Up front.]] It's good to go. Congress officials believe that it is important to increase the equation and feel it's okay to brag about it. It's just a good thing, but let's ask you something about the end of this term. We want many steps to take and that the service to those who need it is good. We do not want to cut down our health. We do not want patients to have special taxes in addition to the tax paid by the income tax system. And we don't want the number limits in high school. There's roads, law enforcement, medical transportation, and health care to be improved all over the country. Of course, if we are going to do so without any action, it will cause feelings of inflation and tension in our community. [[The president calls.]] Once again, Mr. President, I'm amazed at the speech as the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics took along earlier and is not in any relation to the policy he speaks for at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u40	There's no inflation in...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u41	Mr. President. We're dealing with financial and financial policies of 2017 and 2021. As we have seen, it appears to be different. In itself, it is good to be able to look ahead, and I think it is necessary. In fact, I felt that when the public finances were accepted at the time when councils and institutions were made to publish their long - term schedule to three years of age, that they should have held hands, i.e. that they should be both five years old. But it was the result, and it is the way it is. I'm going to go through the plan for a minute. The nature of the matter, we do not agree with the whole of it. I'd say there's one thing and it's better if it wasn't, but we in the left green don't like basic ideas. The first page of the introduction speaks of the state's budget being changed completely from the fact that the government gave the 2013 budget. In other words, there was an accounting of about one year. on zero in 2013. I think he was 700 million in minus, something like that. It is often claimed that life began after that government began. The dignity and stability proposals are discussed, but we have not yet been given the exact value and value of these assets. We have words to that, and it shows the transparency that we are expected from his Ministry tomorrow, or him himself, to speed up the sales of possessions and recovery as possible. The minister himself has said that the goal is to sell as much as possible before the end of the year. I think it's dangerous to talk about setting it up this way and that it can cause the price of property to fall down. I don't feel very responsible to talk this way. It is also interesting when you look at the presentation that it says that the investment level was too low from 2009. I'm wondering if it's the highest. The minister of finance and his people believe that it was possible for something else after a crash but that it was a low level of investments. That was a reality that we faced, gave up a wealth of government, and enjoyed it. It's not like it was a choice. Now, however, there is a choice as to how the government decides to invest. It's grueled with great projects and things like that. Much of this has been stated previously, in order to develop in the former government transport program, which is true because a plan has not been adopted by this government and is not in harmony with what is being presented here, in view of financing. The same can be said of projects that were determined, including projects. In an investment scheme taken by this government and slaughtered almost on the first day. It's an old task now being done, that I think, to a vote for the government party, independence party and forwarding party. I've been discussing the government's income institutions, but, of course, there's something else. It refers to the payment of tax income and to the delinquency of tolls and the reduction of insurance costs, and to God, we know what. I would like to see a thorough assessment of how these reductions have benefited consumers, but they have also become an increase in food taxation, certainly. We've seen lately that the drains do not seem to return in an acceptable way. It would be interesting before they continue in these steps to see if they really return or if the merchants and others who should return them all the way to the consumer take it. There are big issues, such as education and loans and other things. It is considered that if I get it correctly, the funding for the shortcut should stay in high school. I wondered, " Is there any extra strength that the schools really need because they are sadly very hungry for all too many years? ' I don't agree with what says about extra education. Of course, it is limited, both through age and through the Icelandic loan fund of students who have been a great deal discussing the last days, especially with students abroad. I agree with that word. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttir daughter before he's out of debt and he's going to have a tax cut at the same time. We do not believe that this will result in stability. On page 18. 10 is referred to as the birth ordinary treasure. I wondered what that means when they say that the funding of the fund should be considered, along with the future policy that the staff brought here, what's underneath. It would be interesting if a minister could answer that question. On page 18. 6 The Federal Bank magazine's financial status shows that it is mainly the debt of property people and higher income groups that have dropped. It's in harmony with what we senators of the left green have discussed, so there's nothing new about it. As I said before, the combination of this five-year record here is absolutely historically low and has been very small lately. Maybe it's where the politicians showed up, like we had a word exchange about earlier. This is primarily the question of whether we want to increase or decrease our share. We've been talking for increased drinking. It is also said that real estate prices have gone up considerably, discussing both housing investment and employment investment. This increase is not in itself a debt of debt, since it is affordable by those who can afford it. We know that both the wealthy and the businesses have purchased property that has resulted in an increase in prices, but the apartments are primarily renting on Airbnb, and so on. That is what has mainly increased housing prices and large investors in it. I wondered about the investment of the state funds and whether we're going to see an increased privatization on road, school, or whatever it takes to invest in, because it looks like this government is not planning to invest unless it's presented here, the investment is small at the beginning of the programme, and it's growing. It's also a real wage, and it's increased a lot, and it's always compared to some average in that context, and money, and so on. Still, we need to ask ourselves, " Who are the ones that will be left behind? ' There are poorer, older citizens, and low-payers who do not feel the increase in money. It does, however, feel an increase in food taxes. There's no way to figure that out, I think, in this plan. We discussed earlier tax returns and how we wanted to finance a government fund, and a minister ended up talking back on what was to be financed. For the last three years, we have wanted to build another and faster way, both the health system and the education system, e.g., and in spirit and in harmony with what was presented here as signatures. Five more years is a long time, if that's the case, e.g. the building of a treatment core and solutions for the Hospital. It could have been done at a much shorter time if the income stocks had not been ill in the way it was done. Regarding the underlying business, this is what I said earlier, in particular, are practical factors, such as oil, tourism, taxes, bank tax, and stability, and other factors that have led to the government's doing what it is doing. If that hadn't happened, I don't know exactly where we were, in view of the tax policy of this government. In the workplace, unemployment is reported to have decreased, and, fortunately, there is a decline in unemployment. That's even. ... throughtheuse ofthe former government. It is worth reminding us that one of the measures taken by the current government was cutting down the unemployment rights, which have been illegally condemned. As many as a thousand people have a requirement for a state fund in the form of refunds. This is an example of the cooperation issues that have been talked about. With regard to school matters, I'd like to say that the idea of the liberals remains that schools have something to produce people for the job market as quickly as possible. It is not necessarily to consider that people can look for opportunities they want and find a channel for what they want to do but, rather, they are primarily involved, and they have been presented in the higher education minister's case, to produce for a career. This is a short time to go through the matter. There are a lot of things that could be done, but before I burn out at that earlier time, I have to say something about the tourism. I just said it was one of the government's saviors into the economy. Here, the travel minister returns zero and has done three years. It's as if there's been a sort of fantasy debate about what you want to do because there's not a direct strategy in which you can see how you deal with the items you need to deal with. Delaying infrastructure structure, as indicated by the transport program, takes more on the future. That's it. That's it. A minister said that the balance would be close to 2% in investment, which would be around 1.5 at the end of this schedule. This, of course, acknowledges that there is more to be done and more to be done. There's one thing I want to say for the rest. As a minister said earlier, there seems to be no time to lower taxes. That's exactly what we mentioned when we had a conversation about older citizens and desperate for Christmas. Nor does it seem to be the right time to do much good with the lesser ones, i.e. to increase the pay of these people. You can turn this on both sides, and you can ask yourself, " Am I missing the income according to this kind of money to live up to it? ' I'll probably be in another speech because there are many things I'm going to say and consider. It's a 200-page document. It is interesting to note that it does not tell us exactly when to eliminate or eliminate waste emissions. Rather, it is a form of a little hairy and uncivilized, how and when to do it, which is unacceptable to the people. It is not enough to eliminate the people of the country. It must have to be taken care of for the general population in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u42	A respectable president. It is very good to see that this is the case with a budget proposal for the year 2017, 2021, and financial policy for the same year because it is related. It is based on government law, which was successful in completing work during this terms. This case was employed in a financial committee, where very professional work practices and nonpolitans were used to try to make the best sense of the framework in which government management is now under way. It was a very enjoyable job, and I would like to thank the budget for very good work. Today, the product of this law is being made clear in this discussion. Certainly, there are little beginners on the whole thing. For example, financial matters are yet to be put in place. This will be done in the following days. At the same time, the Parliamentary proposals come a little late under the law. But we do not make a big issue out of it because this is our first challenge. I would have wanted to see the proposal go through the council without election, as is planned for this fall, and have this procedure tested in a whole Senate winter by making donations that would be legal for a New Year's anniversary. They would be based on these controversies, marches, and this vision of the future. But it doesn't seem like that. I would have thought this to be very important, considering that this is a vast law code on which the Senate arrangement is based, on public financial matters. But this is just the way it is done, and everyone does their best to make the best of it and to succeed in this way. The major change, as mentioned in these talks, is that we now discuss the issues and the future on them until the next five years, up to 2021, building on the basis of the laws on public finances. Then you can have more perspective and see the development of various spending categories, which are very positive. At the same time, you can find in this document a comparison between the 2016 budget and the accounts of the accounts in 2014-2015, so I think it's very important that all of this be done in one piece. It would normally have been preferable to have the entire table as a package of these proposals so that evolution can be seen from 2014 onward. A financial committee may ask that the committee be consulted, since the case may be considered as a financial committee. This is the beginning point when this is presented for the first time on the basis of a new official financial legal law. Hence, it should be delighted that this is a far better global view of public finances as a whole, for the State is now to be established as a solidarity. The financial community is now under way too, which is very important, for when the international crisis struck and the banks fell, the state's funds were better off and practically in debt while their rural communities were more in darkness and driven independently. No one knew what their situation was. The farms did a good job there first, but now many of them are very bad, unfortunately, I have to say, some of them are heavily in debt. But now this is being put under one hat, and then the states and societies will work together. This is very important in view of events, since we are to learn from the bad. I think it is very important that the rural communities are now clearly involved in this balance account. When we were discussing the official financial bill on a budget board back then, we discussed much about the need to show the total debt of the state. Me and the vice president of the budget board, huh? paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson, who spoke extensively for showing the debt of Pension, etc. We made a very thorough consideration of the 2016 budget, so that all of the State's commitments, whether of pension bonds, state commitments, or other commitments, would be made visible in financial programmes. Is it well, as reports show, the responsibility for the pension debt of public workers is now becoming and even more than 600 billion, which is incorrigibly successful. When it is clear and visible, I believe that it makes people more aware of the government and what it means to perform an irresponsible campaign, especially to contribute to government spending, and to promote omens, such as so often in politics, unfortunately. So, the situation is clear and light for everyone. I think it's a great improvement. On page 18. 5 The proposal for understanding the budget of the budget before 2017/2021 shows how the areas are divided and how they developed until 2021. I think it's very positive that the initials within the framework are shown in real value, an increase in cost, as is shown in each year's prices. There is an important comparison that involves the increase and price of each year. In the discussion, they may at times want to get lost and become blurred. This has created a great deal of controversy between those who receive financial support from the state to those in charge of finance, 63 members of the council. But there it is, in black and white. It is presented in two different formats, so the controversy that has often been solved in times and times has been solved when there are debates about funding for the others and for these classes. I think it's very important that this is the way it is shown and that it is greatly welcomed. In the table on page 19. 5 is government policy until the next five years. When the tablet is checked, you can see that policy is complete and it remains as it has been for the past three years, i.e. setting priorities for basic services. There are health issues, concerns of the elderly, and disability, education issues, etc. The groups that do not agree with the basic services, as defined, are less equipped. What a cause for joy that is! Therefore, this vision of the future is so important to demonstrate the current policy of the government. Then all the people and those who choose political parties in the General election have a clear choice over time and see what the future is. I think it's very important. Similarly, it is a challenge to maintain the financial principles presented in the public financial laws. I believe these rules were greatly improved in order to first try to contain the government, and second, to create the stability we need. The most important is a show of the state funds left to the next five years in this record, and that's a very good number that I'm not going to repeat here because it's been established. Then we learn that foreign debts are paid down, which are so important to us too. So the prospects are very bright, to say the least. It will be fun to work along this schedule and to look into things from it. The rest of all of this, as I expect and know that the case will be referred to the budget committee for further processing, is that the Ministry of finance meets the Committee, and that it oversees the proposals. Then there's the meaning of meeting with the Committee members from each Ministry to review their field. At the same time, members of the Committee's Committee will be invited to meet with members of the Committee for the same presentation, depending on the schedule. I think there might be a very good example for the future to do this in this way. It saves time, it makes a better conversation between members of Congress. Two committees meet at a meeting with questions answered at the same time, leaving 18 members on the same page regarding the presentation. I think there might be a good example for the future, and very much to remember that the committee's committees meet more together, especially when the lawsuits are so close together. A respectable president. There is one other thing that I find very enjoyable; there is an added product that can be taken up if unexpected events arise in the community. This is also involved if there are changes in pay development or collective contracts and increases in their contracts. Besides, I'm very impressed with the 2% of the scope given to each case so that each minister doesn't even have to ask for extra funds into the year, but he has more room to move capitals in his field, thus creating an extra space. I think it's very important. It is true to mention that the budgetary committee of this terms, as well as the last terms, went to Sweden and studied the case, since Sweden is very early in budgeting and government finance. The committee has looked at the activities of Swedish in this regard. As I have always said, the bike should not be invented but should look to the neighboring countries and take the best they can and try to apply it on land. I believe that it has done quite well and that my joy has been expressed, first of all, that the laws on public finance have been adopted in the council under the administration of this government, as well as that the product of the law has now been seen. Most important, I congratulate the people of the country for the results of this ideal period, especially the great success and vision shown here. There are really bright times ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u43	A respectable president. I find it very happy to speak up and just be here at the council when this first financial plan, under the new laws on government finance, comes out; and it is simply a source of joy to read the report, even if only to see how this is being carried out. I think it's all a big improvement, and it's very important that we bring in these new songs, make it properly. I must also mention what has been discussed here, i.e. has not yet been appointed to legalize financial matters. I think it's unacceptable. It's under the law. It's not a complicated project. It is about that most of the council must select one person to serve as its members in this council. The Prime Minister needs to select one person and the lesser part one. The minority chose its representatives long before Easter and then waited for the greater part and prime minister to their two parties. I think it's very depressing, and if the Ministers and members of the greater part can't find two people in charge, you're kind of afraid of how the business could be in something else, because it can't be complicated. A financial body should have observed this work if it had been of interest. It should have been reading this program and evaluating it. But I hope and trust that this counsel shall be made the first. I'd like to go into certain litigations. I feel positive and, indeed, very important that my high school donations are increasing, since their position has been extremely narrow. On page 18. According to 9, a decrease in high school from four years to three is a big step in promoting high school, as well as in years to come, increasing the production capacity of the economy because young people arrive earlier into the workforce. When we get a hearing from the council members, I'll ask about this. I would like to shorten high school from four years to three, but I'm not necessarily sure that it's a big step in promoting high school. It depends on the budget and policy of the outside media. And whether it increases the production capacity of the economy immensely; in itself, we can't determine it yet. We do not know what young people do, whether this calls for further study, or whether they are even more effective in taking a year off from school and traveling around the world or what they do. I like a lot of claims here, but it's good that there's going to be more money. Similarly, it seems that college was also in need of higher financial contributions. If we look at how much we put in these school points compared to other OECD countries, we're missing in college and college. If I look at the 2016 budget - under this category, there are university, university research, and students who are then LIN - and then the plan for 2017, then there is not a big increase in this group of subjects. But we're going to see, and there's something that we on the budget board will then ask for what they're talking about, exactly in college levels alone. It's just the conversation for the whole topic field. I'm worried about college. The emphasis is placed on the promotion of colleges. If so, recall that a university partnership network was laid down, whether it was in the budget of 2014, which led to university growth and more work together. Although the government did not understand this much, it is still said that cooperation should be stressed. In addition, it is said that in what cases the integration of colleges or research institutions is considered to be a preferred route, but it has not made much progress, and the Ministry of Education has had three years to take some action in this regard. I'll mention this here to point out that we're going to assume that this is a policy and that this is something to be carried out, at least This government, would it return to power or power, and we want it to be realistic, that men are not promising something they cannot keep. I'd like to jump on something else. On page 18. 17 is spoken of as being removed from the country, but now, as the government does not tire of pointing out, the advantage of making a success of at least a number of people. But what is happening at the same time is that a considerable number of people are moving out of the country. It says that this is an unusually extensive evacuation, considering that we are in a high - volume swing. I think it's great that foreign citizens are moving to the country. I think it's just good for this one-in-a-kind country. But I'd rather not lose too many people at the same time. So this is clearly something we should be deeply concerned about and should resist. To be positive, I'm very happy that there's a plan to get back to paying 5 billion a year into the B-insurgent Penitentiary of the State. That's extremely important. If this was not done in 2030, the fund would have to be paid 13 billion annually on account of responsibilities. So it is very important, as soon as we have a table for the table, that we begin to pay back on these accumulated pensions. That's the best part. I am also glad that much emphasis is put on paying off loans. We are very debtable, and interest payments are high. In the short future, we have been tirelessly reminded that this government put 80 billion into debt that we would have wanted to pay in debt. It was not a good thing for us to think. We remember about the seminaries, there's something to ask about, that when the former Prime Minister took over, there were lawsuits under the Ministry; various cases of national culture were taken from the Ministry of Education and Culture, such as The Haguembourg of Iceland, and the scope of the Ministry was further tripled. Also set up two new offices, the office of civil culture and the office of national interests, and a new institution, or what to call it, the master of the state. Also, we have the trusts of the Council under which I would think that should be heard under the property of the state. The question, though, is: Should this remain? I had a feeling that this may be a personal hobby for the then prime minister, and not necessarily the best suggestion in this series of issues. I would have thought it would be best to keep cultural groups together and wonder if they will change this. But with this plan, it doesn't seem that way. I think it is a reason to remind you that any decision made by the Ministers, to move and bring lawsuits, must be well thought - of, not because a minister has a special interest field, and to take over certain issues. I don't think it's an example. Because of what I'm reading here, it doesn't seem like it should be changed. We may need to take a closer look. In many places, I find that there are many challenges, policies, and goals, and emphasis, as well as measures. I think it's important for the Ministry to define the classes in this way and to have a future policy. Although this may be a lot of work at first, it is good to do it this way. However, I feel that there are different kinds of compromises between the accuracy of the policy and the emphasis and action. This is the first plan, I'll take it out, and good as such, I won't belittle it. For example, when I was reading the based language on page 24. 120 persons interested in me are contributions to a rural society, which is expected to be a budget of 21 billion. Then we have a population of 1.5 billion. There's the proposed national conventions and the rest of the building agency and possibly some growth contracts, although I'm not quite sure that they're under the Department of Employment. But we need, like a snooze. The chairman of the budget board said to get the documents that have the basis for these figures. I find these actions and goals to be incredibly unafraid. It says about urban development: U.S. inhabitants, planning, and funding projects in the area of regional development. The application plan says: ▪ Work with national branch members for them to operate their local conventions and to monitor their implementation. We remember that in 2013 400 million were included in the national conventions. The 2014 budget expected 15 million. It was cut that way. Then it was raised to 100 million by the 2nd. A year later, 15 million were expected. What's the policy here? I think it matters whether a man is talking about 100 million for that party or 500. But by the numbers I see here, I don't know, I need to see it. I think all of this is a little open and hairy. As to urban development, it says: ▪ Communicate and work on employment advice in cooperation with employment development companies, rural areas, and other economists. What does that mean? I would have liked to see more and better policy in this section because I experience it so that there is no geographic policy in this country. In terms of law enforcement and justice, there is no evidence that much change is there or much financial expenditure. There will be a higher level of funding in the health system. All of us can agree on the lack of resources, but that is only in many places where there is either a need to expand the budget or to achieve more efficiency and management. I think some places just can't do that, but I'm sure there's a system change in many places. There's not much of a plan. The chapter for tourism is very ambitious. It is not later a good thing for this government to start showing the cards in this regard. There, I find more regionalism to be evident than in the section on urban development. There's talk of raising the number of tourists all over the country, and I think it's very important. Specific measures are needed for that to happen, not by spontaneous means. For example, if we are to sell Fallos in winter, we must be able to fall. All right, well, I'm very happy that I got this document in my hands even though I have some things to do with it. I look forward to applying it to a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u44	A respectable president. I'm glad that there's finally been a proposal for Congress resolution on a financial plan for the next five years. It would have been better to get her in a little bit earlier, and I'll join the critics of the previous speakers regarding all of that. However, there are many good things at the same time that need to be considered more carefully to gain a better perspective on the real course and whether we agree with it when it comes to it. I believe the Icelanders in general agree when it comes to big issues, such as the health and education systems and the welfare systems above their heads. That's something we want to spend the combination on. I'd like to start by celebrating that there's a table of contents in the Senate arrangement. At the beginning of a conference, I made a big difference that the budget wasn't in the format, so I like that comment. [[For example: Is there a table of contents?]] Yeah, that's a table of contents. [[Up front.]] I'm glad you're here. I'm glad it's an index, that's great. There's a lot of good here. I am especially glad to see the value of Aldulis's agent in the proposal, but not the way I see it. it gives particular emphasis to the fact that an agent will be enabled to take the initiative. It is said that it is very important that special employees be hired to do this more effectively than ever before, in which a U.S. agent is thus adapted not to any special office but to an enormous importance to the Icelandic government system. It's not good if one of the most important government agencies in securing democracy and the implementation, the Congress itself and the world around us works properly. So I really hope that this will work out and that it will be taken into account that the U.S. Marshal's office needs even more financial support than before. We need to take seriously what an agent has presented. Fundament Committee, i.e. that he may need additional funding to take care of the initiative and to deal with the tremendous pressures that have been put on his office, especially after a collapse in which the complaint against the Council's agent increased dramatically. I'm not gonna talk much about it. It is worth talking about the tourism service and its role in paying for the interior. Travellers get e.g. the non-employment tax will be reimbursed if they specifically apply for it. There are several hundred million paid back. We need to seriously consider whether this is really the right thing to do while building wood to receive tourists. Is it not better to try to judge this way rather than try to get it out of the pockets of the Icelanders? Many of these routes, e.g. The path to Gold Falls and Geys, and all of it, will soon be destroyed, where there is such extensive migration of people, especially tourists. There are tens of thousands of tourists traveling this way in a very short time, far beyond the original design. There are some changes that can be made in order simply to keep up with the increasing financial cost that society has to deal with. It is possible to eliminate this indiscriminate urge to tourists, i.e. that they get back a bit of the merit tax, or that they simply lower the tax per cent. It would be great if these funds went to strengthen the infrastructure needed to market Iceland as a decent country to travel around, as we all want to be. Other matters I noticed in my schedule. I missed a few things when it comes to mental health. Recently, a certain mental - health program was adopted. I think it's in several places, even. ... tohavemore shrinkings at medical centres. But we really need to consider whether we should start paying back in part or in all our visits to psychologists, since they are a natural part of our welfare system and we need to accept them into our welfare system. They are very important to keep the people's mental health in a good place. The same goes for family doctors. It is very important that we have a strong domestic health care system, but at the same time it must be comparable to what is happening in other countries. There has been a great degree of wisdom in the medical profession when it comes to whether they simply want to live here. It is a real challenge for the government to provide a proper basis for doctors, especially doctors, if we are going to go into the changes in the system as the highest level. A health minister has proposed. This includes some. that the family doctors need to be their first stop. That's what we need to do. I would like to see further emphasis when it comes to how we are going to keep our doctors. It does not mean having a health system that no one wants to work on. It is very important to update all the cost of the house and the rest of the streets. There's one thing I'd have liked to have the highest. Secretary of finance to answer, but he may be able to answer that later. I couldn't find anything in this financial policy on the stability process and the private part-of-the-part enterprise established, Lindahvvo. I would've wanted to see the course. Maybe I missed it, but that's why it would have been nice to have the highest. Secretary of finance here to answer that inquiry. Since he's not in the gym, I don't think he can. Colleges are very busy. It says, with the permission of the President, on the support of students: ▪ Necessaries borrowing from the LIN have increased, average school periods have increased, and average interest rates have increased. I don't see how this can surprise anyone, since it has been a steady population growth over the last decade and a half. We've never been more than just right now. I took a few numbers for fun. In 1961, which is the same year as the Icelandic student loan, there were 177,292 people in Iceland. By 1990, my birth year, they had grown to 253 thousand. Today, the population of 2016 is 332 thousand. During this 26 - year period, since 1990,2016, there has been 26% population growth. The increase in birth rates was natural. So this should not surprise anyone. When I was in high school, they were building elementary school so that we could have room. I don't quite understand the logic that comes out here. It's like it's a problem. However, we need a learning loan system that works to support each generation. I feel that my generation would suffer if the people who borrowed loans in 1961, after which they had more opportunity to pursue education than we do. You can even see this. in the legacy protocols that were appearing, where the cost of living in foreign students is reduced by up to 30% on one board. It's very sad. I would like to get a comprehensive policy on the meaning of the university and especially on the loans. Large generations are entering the university and are expected to take a student's loan. You can expect people to take longer studies than before, since we have been told to pursue a career of education that will be successful. If that is not the case, if we need more workers, workers, or people with a different experience, we just need to start saying it. It's okay. Not everyone has to have a college education, that's just the way it is. I don't know why this should come as a surprise. I think it's a very natural growth and part of the natural expenses for a government fund to deal with. In order to end my case, I'd like to say that it would be good to get a proper course about this. Many young people find it difficult to buy their first apartment unless they have some means of financial support. The problem there, for me personally, and I've heard more people come across it, is that when you're a student of 20-◯26 years of age, or 201⁄230 years old, you can only have about 2.5 million. K. a year's income and not a year's loss on a student's life. It's making it very difficult for people to collect money from an apartment with the system as it is today. I thought, " Could it not be that way?'simply because many students are able to work more with study and often cannot buy an apartment. Although this was made easier by allowing people to take out their special pension savings to make use of an apartment, it does not change when income is only about a million a year, people do not have much to play. We're talking about if you can put 10 up. K. Every month it takes about 25 years to collect a down payment of 25 million. K. An apartment. It's simple math. Unfortunately, part of this problem is how the LAIN system works. This is something that needs to be improved and given a more complete view than has been done. Do we want young people to be able to buy an apartment? If the answer is yes, I can say that there's one thing we have to do, and that's LIN's holiday goal. We need to meet people, especially young people in school, so that after school they have something in their hands and can buy an apartment. Because I'm at the highest. I'm going to repeat my compliments from the beginning on how great it is to see good emphasis when it comes to the emissary of the General Assembly, but most important of all, that there is a index of contents. That makes me very happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a material talk and will lay aside any subject. A senator spoke at the end. I believe that we have to do a few things when it comes to the loan and there are some motivations. I have always felt that way, and we have often been successful in this, not to discourage people from working. I think it's probably gone too far now, like what happened. A senator spoke. But, hey. Another major matter was discussed by a member of the body of elders. I got it. I got it. A senator to study ideas as the head of the student council, Már Maronsson, has written on the website romur.is, an extension of the special programme that we set out to use, i.e. making use of the additional pension savings as a payment and thus reducing the payload on the market. I have long felt that this is the way we should go. We can have some adjustments. Similar ideas have come from the Hallgrímur son of Óskarsson, who carries the inscription immediately to safety. But I think the only way for us to make it possible for young people to buy housing is to take advantage of this fine arrangement that is present in the way we did, by opening up the way that people can pay down their mortgages through the extra pensions. But we should stress now to help people and to use this arrangement so that people can buy an apartment. This is naturally an unoriginably convenient arrangement, especially when we give the tax rate when it is new for the purchases. But on top of that, there are professionals who, in this case, help young people buy an apartment. [[The president calls.]] Every calculation shows that this is a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u46	A respectable president. Thank you for a good question. I believe in the arrangement that the holiday target is way too low. I think it's like those that appear on the website above.is, about using the pension savings to buy a house and pay it out more and more, if you think and look at it better, but that doesn't mean that the U.S. students can only earn 930 you. K. every year. This is to meet these three or four months a year in which they are not on student loans, so people are actually being maintained at poverty limits. Icelandic students have nearly 200 yrs. K. ... betweenthehandsamonth. If people are trying to succeed, they are trying to make a good future for themselves, it's not enough to start saving, for example. I calculated it after I examined the Lands Bank website by chance that it takes a person four years to collect 100 yous. K. if he lays ten up. K. per month. To earn 25 million dollars. K. An apartment has to have 3.75 million. K. That means it takes 26 years to collect it if people can afford to park 10 of you. K. The maximum number of connections per month. As the situation today is for Icelandic students, and I know it very well since I was there for a recent student, students can't afford it. Ideas like those in the bramble are, of course, positive, but there is another problem, and that is the holiday goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u47	A respectable president. I think it's quite right to look at the holiday target in particular. However, it is not only what students teach at university but also what they save for that time. Most young people work in summers when they are in high school and even early. Some also take time off before going to college. It's natural that once people finish college, they'll be able to use this way. This varies from person to person. There are few societies, I think, who can offer individuals that as soon as they graduate, they can buy an apartment. I'm not saying it's completely impossible, but I'm not sure that it's quite right to aim at it. You might also think, though, that what we want to keep in is the insurance policy of the pension system, but you don't get social security unless you work for three years continuously. So there is reason to believe that we're doing some work through the pension fund because they never earn the rights of disability, pension, and child support because they don't work for three years continuously. If, for example, it was new to me, I think it would have a positive effect on people who are saving money. It is important to consider this in this context. I think we're supposed to do this very fast and there's a bill coming from the highest level. The secretary of finance, whose focus is on the extra pension system and on the purchase, is the foundation of this. Now, how well we can work, for the nature of the matter as we know it is difficult for young people to have a roof over their heads. [[The president calls.]] We need to work on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u48	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion that is worthy of our consideration. I believe now is the time for this discussion, when we are discussing financial plans for the future. Thus, young people, especially after a crash, were simply reduced because there was no money to pay them for work. Similarly, university studies do not necessarily result in higher incomes for graduates, who are also a problem, which makes students who have just graduated from high school either fail to get a job or are not getting a salary that corresponds to the work, as we do in the comparative European countries. It was noted in the report of Arion's bank that the purchase power of young people had been replaced during the second 30 years of life as the money for the next generation of 30 years and older had increased for the past five years. We need to do something there, and I think and I believe that all of us can make wise decisions about money. I think only by increasing the student holiday goal would make it easier for them to get money to start their lives. As the situation is now, it is very difficult for young people to collect for their first apartment. They are the most important players in high rent prices in the area of the capital, especially where there is a lot of this apartment building in Airbnb, but there is, of course, a very different discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u49	A respectable president. I'm just going to pick up the line where I let him talk to you. paritaprevir Before I speak up, you Ávún Helgadóttir. I think that's exactly what it is. A senator was showing the importance of discussing the major context because rent prices, shelter prices, and other such activities are interplayed in at least two political points, State, and rural society. The long - standing construction policy of the more part of Reykjavík has resulted in rising prices for housing as well as rent prices. One third of the cost of new construction in the capital area is official, one on the State side of monitoring costs, complex building regulations, etc. However, rural society, the largest community in particular, does not have a geographic option to increase property, but the city of Reykjavík has, unfortunately, had a very peculiar policy in organizational matters that affects not only the city's financial resources but also the people, especially the youngest. We need to discuss this in context. That is why it is so important that we have laws on public finances. It's totally great to the highest. Secretary of the budget, the highest. Governments and rural communities have agreed on goals that are fundamentally fundamental. We will never succeed unless these parties play together. It has, for example. It has been a long time for people to have not played together between local society and the State. Happily, for the worldwide bank collapse, the state's budget had nearly paid off all of its debts and paid off into pensional commitments. If we hadn't done that already, the politicians who stood for it had little thanks, but if we hadn't, it would have been very difficult for us to sort out the position they formed. At the same time, rural communities increased their debt with the consequences we know. It won't do much to bring up a good financial plan if we're not going to follow it. After decades of waiting, we finally have a plan where we are discussing things and taking a long, long - term look at them. The nature of the matter, according to one political issue, is a key factor in this as well as the long - term, long - term plan. It's important to everyone, including. that public authorities know in some ways what the future holds. It's important that we get to where we want to be and where we want to go. The legal committee found out that when we visited Sweden, the country we've best compared with this one, there is a political agreement to be responsible for public financial matters. There are different categories and outlooks, such as here and how we deal with them, but there is absolutely agreement on this, and there also the media are important tools, not allowing humans to have irresponsible talking and omissions when it comes to public finances. That's basic. Of course, I think, like everyone, that we can't help but say that it's bright ahead of us. We have a strong chance to succeed, but we are not on the finish line. Reykjavíkurburg government shows this, that community had a very special position relatively few years ago, and politicians really wanted to pay the city of Reykjavík because she had such a superior position. You can get her to where she is right now, so it's all possible. Even if we have plans that look good, it is easy to screw this up if things are not right. If you are looking at the introduction material involved in this procedure, e.g. With regard to the nation's foreign position, I draw attention to the fact that we see an enormous change here. We're getting to a better place than we were in before the collapse of the economy. Similarly, we have greatly increased our power of riches. Of course, we can't reach it at this pace, but we are very happy to see these changes. The same can be said of the domestic debt, that they have changed basically and are well, for it is very important that most people, preferably all, are financially independent. They can't become that unless they have little debts. However, there are signs of danger. We can reduce debt, but we have every opportunity to do so. We naturally do not know all the factors, do not know exactly what the future holds. The threat is even in that the gangs of the Icelandic Crown are at risk. This will influence the nation's basic work habits, such as tourism and other exports. Doing so can make it harder for us to reach the goals we want to see. The reason for this good is that the State still owes a lot of money, but in turn, we are out of the stability program with a lot of possessions. If we succeed in selling these assets into an open, transparent process and using them to reduce debt, we will severely reduce interest costs. That's something we have to do. I'm absolutely suggesting that we do everything we can to make sure that the process of selling property is certain, but we can't sit down with everyone for the trade and industry. We have medical bills and all kinds of businesses owned by the State, banks, and God knows what, and that's not a good place for the state. At the same time, we also need to, because I mentioned banks that are the largest individual property, to consider having a banking system that is not in the arms of the taxpayers. This is where a professor from London School of Economics came at the invitation of the United States, John Kay, who was particularly involved in this discussion, said that our financial system had become so complex. It's all started from the EU, we take it more and less from there, and we have to do what we can to minimize the risk of Icelandic taxpayers. They have discussed such matters as separating investment banks and business banks, but they need to go much further. Clearly, the basic arrangement is mispronounced. The new directive from the European Union, which we must not record, is about to increase your deposit insurance to 100 levels. Euros per account and, in fact, put Kingdom responsibility on those factors. That's something we must never do. We're supposed to make sure there's some very powerful financial institutions, but they have to be so built up that if things go wrong, the owners will lose instead of the taxpayers. Now someone might say it was the default, but it isn't. It's, like, a... Presidential discussions in the U.S. elections, perhaps not so much in Europe, but especially the old European states have not solved their problems that followed the global financial crisis. They went into big public debt and have failed to pay them off because they were paying for the banking system. Many times they were saving those who had the appropriate institutions. All this hangs out together. It is also very important that we speak now of the spending line of subjects and consider over time, that is, fundamental. On page 18. 5 on the bill, they're the cash frames. Although I'm happy with the big picture of this, I feel that there are better things to do when it comes to different language groups. It brings my attention, a respectable president, to e.g. a planned increase to 2021 to foreign affairs is very high, both in the amount and also in the proportion as well. I think this is something we need to look at in particular. Surely one of these purposes is to fulfill our commitments or goals regarding development support, but this has gone up in the past with no clear explanation. Then I'm referring not only to refugees we're supposed to define as development aid but also to putting high levels in the EFTA Development Fund that we've managed to work with the European Economic Area. The fund should, of course, be defined as a contribution to development and should be made to development aid. We are here with the tourism service, where a donation is expected. It's well, it's a pleasure when you see a reduction, but because we have to invest in infrastructures in travel services, I guess we're going to get it in another way, i.e. that those who use the service will pay for it. I think that's a reasonable way. I'm worried about college, that there's not enough increase. If we are going to go to the top of Icelandic school, it is somehow a way of comparing ourselves with other countries, the contributions to the elementary school by the highest level here, but if we compare ourselves with other countries at the same time, the system is more expensive when it comes to high school and colleges. This was a shortcut for high school, including to make more money out there. The university is something we must stress. Because we have a real problem in basic schools, we have made contributions to one of the institutions of Education, which include: strengthens elementary school in a direct way. I think we need to think about whether we can use that money instead at college, because it's obvious that the biggest problem in elementary school isn't a shortage of money, there's something else wrong, when we're in a place where we can't teach people in elementary school to read, especially young boys. In fact, I think at elementary school there is a problem when it comes to boys. I'm not going to do it exactly right now. Something else I'm worried about, and that we have to look especially at is what's going to happen to nurses. Much money is expected to invest in nursing planning. This is inevitable, but according to the planned plans, it is not enough. We see a very big river coming in in in the next few years. We do not just have to build a room, we also need a defined schedule on how we can have the services provided, such as short - term care and other such things so that people can live as long as possible in their home. This is one of the major tasks. Based on the plans available, we not only had to build a new hospital but in reality put the same amount in the construction of new nursing homes. There is an expensive way, and we need to look to the neighboring countries and see how they have solved the problem. Thus, we live to see what nations with different ages have done to solve this problem because they have had their birth - murder pattern just as we are going on for a much longer time. Not only can we learn from what they have done well but we can also look at what they have done badly and try not to go that way. It's a pleasure, a respectable president, to see a large and expensive project like the Land Hospital and the Western Island Center because, often, politicians have made a promise of something in their sleeves when such things are, especially when it comes to election year, but now we have this in our basic program. Now we finally have a long-term plan. We have finally reached the point where we are discussing this from larger areas of affairs rather than always discussing things from very small amounts, and though they are important, we as a nation must look at the big picture when we make plans. There is no doubt that the future is bright. There is no doubt that during this term, there was tremendous success and much greater than was expected by humans. I think all those who had spoken in the way that the situation now shows for the last election or at the beginning of this term would have been blown about as unrealistic people. But there is also a problem with playing out a position like this. It is easy to put too much emphasis on it when it is better. That's something we have to prevent. We have to be responsible for our financial responsibilities, and this document is a basis for that. I hope we can get together to work, not just now as far as this donation goes, but to work in this spirit in the immediate and distant future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u50	A respectable president. Government and financial policies up to 2021 are the documents that key the tone of government funds and the economy in the next five years. Of course, these are fundamental laws that show us in a way into the minds of the government, for as soon as the economy and the environment are drawn up, we also see how governments intend to take advantage of the conditions that the State has to take care of and care of its main business modules. I say that's what you should be thinking about being the goal. I'm sorry, therefore, that I'm not gonna be able to see enough of this government budget, as I'm going to argue better. This policy presented here is based on baseline levels of sustainable commitment and the purpose of promoting economic balance, thus trusting the requirements for the economic use of human resources, capital and resources as mentioned. With regard to our goals, let us not share as far as they can go. I miss not seeing in financial policy other and other goals, for although the document is called financial policy, it should show some kind of social goals, such as social goals, based on specific principles and goals for education and such. Sadly, that thought has not come into play in public planning so far. There are ways of reaching the goals of economic policy that I would like to pause, but first, I'd like to have a few words on the basis of it. Interestingly, for the next five years alone is expected to pass. That requirement immediately calls a warning bells regarding how practical the plans for the future can be as undiscovered for the next five years. At the same time, the release of a currency school is being initiated, which, as everyone knows, carries the risk of experiencing a disturbance in the economy. At the top of that risk, there are warnings about the potential dangers in the economy. Therefore, there is no doubt that the government should now announce further tax reductions in addition to reductions in tax steps andademation of fiscal taxes. In addition to the effects of inequities and discrepancies, there is an increase in the number of strokes. But the government does not want to do so. Rather, it intends to face the challenge by reducing public projects and investments. She too will remain attached to her cut - off cable, which is called maintenance of the tax gate. In the same sentence, though, what everyone sees is that the need for investment has become extremely urgent in 2008. The debate should not now be debated that there is currently a particular risk of compression in the economy. But I believe that governments can still fill both investment and construction needs, but they also maintain internal stability in the economy by making better use of the currently ruined income institutions. Then I am not the least to refer to the resource fee or to the fishing policy that the government dropped during the first days of this election period, thereby rejecting billions who could have used to reduce the State debt or to the urgent implementation of the transport system that the government has, as we know, neglected. This is realized, as the budget of the budget shows, which says that there is a great need for necessary structure in society's infrastructure, especially in energy and transport areas. It also correctly points out that low maintenance and investment levels over the past few years as well as huge growth in tourism services have called for increased development of air traffic activities along with investments in energy production and electricity distribution. At the same time, there is a real danger that, for example, tourism is going too close to the elements of the country and even its own reputation and market opportunities because it is walking on its own and the quality of what it is selling. So the need for investment and implementation has become urgent but is not answered by actions in this document. Yet, a minister of finance in his earlier speech claims that the government's funds have enough money, 400 billion dollars. In the rest, so much money that no more income is needed. This message, though, comes in a different voice in view of the great means being proclaimed in this program, for it is suffering fully but not finding necessary work. What, then, did we here do in the last budget campaign for further contributions to the elderly and the desperate, fighting for the benefiters and the children, if the money has never been the problem? So why is it not possible to improve the state of Our Kingdom News, which involves a wide range of ten nursing homes throughout the country, rather than the three that the government is going to do enough over the next five years, all in the capital area? Why not expand your education system and receive adults from high school? What, then, is the need to make the changes in the Icelandic loan fund that is being made to a great degree in terms of the survival of students and especially those who attend their studies abroad? No, a respectable president. It may be that billions of rivers across the top of the state's budget, and apparently the economy has improved, but I do not give much evidence that it is therefore not to be paid naturally by wealthy sectors, such as construction and tourism. Because if income sources cannot be fully used in good time, when? It would seem that the rulers would never have heard of gathering to their gray years, filling their barns, and keeping them. It is different to protect wealthy industry at the same time as it is being used to tighten the foundation of the government, with the consequences we already see in the welfare system, where health institutions are financing to the harm. The next five years is now expected to increase the amount of money in that area, but unfortunately, only the expense is in there, so there is very little additional in order to increase the amount of service. The country's high schools do not see a better time. Some who do not even get an estimate for actual student numbers. The decision to use a legal means to prevent adults from access to the after-school schools is unscheduled. At the university, there is a lack of policy. The government radio is still looking forward to major cuts in addition to everything that has happened and, as I said earlier, changes in the loans are planned. The status of reformers in Iceland, the position of patients who are stuck with heavy payment, some of whom are still going to gain weight. In spite of this, we are now told that we do not need money in a government fund. That's interesting. But to look at that claim and to compare it with the financial strategy presented here prove true and shows that this is the government's provision for the many and small resources of the rich and the few.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u51	Madam President. We'll discuss financial policies and financial agendas here. This is an extremely important debate because these cops find government policy at any given time, and many of these policies do not enter the World Congress through other forms of Congress. I would like to discuss the issues that are primarily determined through financial and financial programmes at any given time, but they still exert tremendous influence on everyone. It is first to say that the economic situation of the nation has developed in a better direction since collapse and that it is interesting to look at photos of developments published in the budget. It shows that since the 2008 collapse, much water has flowed to the sea, and everything has been looked for better ways, whether it is viewed in terms of government or any other general economic development. However, the primary issue is the methodology, and especially the income raise. If we look at the picture on page 22. 29 The financial agenda shows that there is not much improvement expected. I'm in no doubt that if there had been any other way into revenue, it would look different, and that is, of course, the political differences. In terms of the resource expenditure, it was the priority of this government to reduce its hunting costs when it came to power. It takes less than that. It involves the tens of billions who were, in effect, determined to turn over the large structure at the expense of their consumption. I'm adding the wealth tax that was decided not to extend. More and more discussions are made in the international area about the need to drive progressive tax returns, the progressive tax system, which is what the government has gone away by reducing the paces even though they are still two, and a special taxation on the more abundant. This brings us to the question of whether an equation can be a special goal in such a program. Aggression is not a specific objective in this strategy or policy. Although this morning the government released a news release of an even greater equation this morning, it was the day when it was later corrected, based on statistics from 2013 instead of 2014. I think it will be very interesting to look at the equations that have developed here in some temporal context, because we must see that reducing the tax rate to the more wealthy in society cannot lead to more equations. A growing misunderstanding is something we should worry about, be aware of, and endeavor to avoid, for we see that governmental action such as changes in the tax system has yielded greater division, and we also see that economic developments become different and worse than where there is an even greater degree of control. In view of the highest. The prime minister here sits here, and I take this opportunity to note that if we're equal to a special goal, which I think he should be, not only from the objective in itself, but from the equality of new research, it matters if we want to spread the quality in the most just way and make sure that everyone gets the opportunity to enjoy themselves, but also because there's a special economic argument with an equation that new research actually makes an even more productive community, but that the foundations could be stronger. This explains the fact that public investments, although some investments come into play on a long - term schedule, are at a minimum. Of course, I'd like to welcome plans for a new land hospital, even though it would be, and we've agreed here many times and we all know how important that plan is. I'm also going to name an Icelandic teacher who's here on a long-term plan and I'm celebrating it. I still believe it was a mistake to disappear from an investment plan of the former government, which included. took care of Icelandic education, of course, but that disagreement was about income gains, i.e. whether they would be willing to make money in order to engage in the construction of needed structures. It wasn't. That's why we haven't seen this house rise yet. Although the manuscripts are on Unesco's world calendar, they are still hidden in unsatisfactory shelters that have recently been poisoned by vermin that could threaten our assigned inheritance, not just for ourselves, but for the whole world. Because time is so embarrassingly short, I would like to mention especially a few cases on the expense side. For a discussion of the university subject, see page 5 of this article. 174 and 175 of the longer sheet here adopted by the Scientific and Technical Council that university funding should be comparable to the average of member countries in OECD 2016 and Northern America in 2020. There is no further discussion of the goals that I know that politicians from all classes have officially declared themselves in agreement, but we have long been afterboats of other countries and have been below the average OECD when we consider these financial contributions measured from each student to the university level in Iceland. There is no way to see anything in this program that indicates that there is a real intention to achieve this goal. You can't tell from the plan that it's the plan. That's a concern, Madam President, because when we discuss investments, education is probably the most profitable investment, if we take the language of the market and apply it to education. In fact, I think the market's language is too much to be used on education in this fine book here, for we can read a lot about the shortening of high school. It is claimed that the length of high school is likely to decrease. It was, in effect, one - sided without any human - age debate at the council, for there is room in the law to be understood from law data that would allow secondary schools to offer studies of different lengths, of different content, i.e. It was put into the hands of the school to determine exactly the content and length of high school when laws were approved here that went into effect in the long government of Independence Party and Groups. Current level. A minister has decided one - sided to shorten this study. It is taken here that it will bring back less deportation and will return students to the labour market, which is likely to increase economic growth. I wondered, though, that the research that OECD has been conducted in consultation with the National Institute of Education does not show that the study is so far away from study, much rather than as a so - called psychosocial basis, that it causes students to disappear from school. It is not discussed here. Rather, it is claimed that short study results in less withdrawal. Unfortunately, Iceland and I do not offer the same supportive services for our high school students as do many other countries of the north. Here at the council, there are excellent suggestions, though I say for myself that I am now a messenger of one of those who is about to become part of a high school law offering either the services of a nurse or a psychiatrist as circumstances allow in high school precisely because we see that the psychosocial causes are the most violent when it comes to deportation. Then there is a synoptic proposal from members of the United States for an examination of psychological services in high school. This is where we cut ourselves out from the North. I think it's actually being said something without having enough thought - provoking reasons. It is also remarkable to see that the phrase "one sentence " appears on page 9. 172, with President's permission: It is expected that the percentage of adult high school students would drop, while in the fall of 2013, 32% of students in high school were 21 years of age or older. It's put in section on suspension. Money was not directly used to rule out students 25 years of age and older. This suggests that there is a natural trend toward reducing the number of adult high school students. There is no natural development, Madam President. It is determined by governments not to give money to teach the older students in high school. So when you read the lines, it makes me feel a little bit important. I'm sorry, I don't have the time to mention anything else, but this is, of course, a high-political document. However, in the 20 seconds I have at the end, I would like to say that contributions to development cooperation are expected to be 0.26% of GDP in 2018. The proposal to the highest. A former minister of foreign affairs proposed at 0.27%, so this national budget is even less demeaning than the worst proposal for the development teamwork program as the highest level. A former minister of foreign affairs presented himself. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry for this lack of ambition in this group of languages. I'm sorry, but I can't go over everything I would've wanted to review here on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u52	A respectable president. As noted, during the birth of the then two governments, government laws on public finance were many years before they were finally adopted at the end of the last year. The law means a great change in the economy, e.g. A co-ordination between the state's financial and rural society. Such an agreement was established recently, which is important to the whole of the situation and is, I think, a milestone in the relationship between state and rural society. The law will have a positive effect on the economy as well as on the discipline and other changes that are currently working on, such as a new labour market model and the establishment of a national economy. The law states that financial programmes, such as humans know, should be developed for five years each spring and financial policy in the beginning of each terms. As a result, each year's budget will be updated to the next five years. It is a large, vast document, as one has seen, with much information on public financial matters. The plan now that it is submitted for the first time has many new references. For example, the government budget is divided into 34 sectors and is emphasised on each subject field and is able to understand it in a printed copy. The budget allows for seeing economic policies in individual areas, income, expenses in individual fields, growth and debt. The financial program we are considering has been under way since the recent millennium. All the agencies have come to the work as well as to the European Union and both the Ministers' Committee for State and the Government have participated in and agreed to it. As mentioned in the discussion, the objective of financial policy is clear; the total survival of the public will be 1%, i.e. each year, state and rural areas of the country's production of 2017/2021. A total of some 170 billion do this for the rest of the five years, and it is not expected that rural communities will contribute to that, but will remain in their current position. As a result, it is the Kingdom that contributes to the rest. The remainder leads to a reduction of 34% of land production, as estimated in 2017, to 26% in 2021. In this way, the State will reach both public financial boundaries, something that was considered impossible a few years ago, and the original concept was about 45%, the end of the law by 30%, followed by by the year 2018. During 2013 when the forwarding government and the Independence Party took place, the total debt of the government as defined by the government's laws on public finances was over 60% of national product, but within three years the debt of some 500 billion is about 500 billion below - 500 billion - or 40% of national production. As I mentioned earlier, it is estimated that by 2018 it will be reduced to 30%. During 2016, the remainder of the state's budget will be well over 400 billion, mainly due to the stability of the budget. This is, of course, excellent results. It is the result that makes it possible for us to increase our welfare costs in the years to come. In the coming years, the situation will be properly handled and the appearance of the economic status of Icelanders, the government, the homes, and the companies. I've told you before, it's important in Icelandic society that there's an even greater equation than in the countries we compare with. We're 331,000. We are more and less connected, related, or associated with one another, and we see how others have it in our society, and we feel better if everyone has it very well and is more equal than in many other countries. It is true that in an announcement made by the government this morning, the failure was made to use numbers that are not new. [[Up front.]] They were partly based on figures from 2013 that show that when the government replaced it, it took back a number of measures of cuts that had landed on the elderly and the microchip. We took it right back in the summer of 2013, so the equation measured by 2013 is at the end of the last terms and then at the beginning of this. [[Up front.]] A few weeks ago, socialists were introduced, based on figures from 2018. It shows that there is an even continuation. There are fewer and fewer people in our society. There is always that group, and it's the job of the State and rural society to hold that group. This financial program is indeed being met, for there are some 42 billion spending allowances. As I mentioned, there is a decrease in debt premiums to add the interiors of society, and especially in increasing welfare expenditures and investments. The budget expects substantial physical growth in terms of welfare, especially in health matters. High - quality investments are expected in health matters, such as early stages in the construction of new Lands Hospitals, nursing homes, maintenance projects at the Land Hospital, a tool plan, a treatment core, a hospital hotel, etc. It is very well balanced in the plan according to the conditions we are living in in today's pressure environment. I've heard speeches that the public investment is not enough because we stick to a very low percentage, 1.3% of the land production for public investments in the first part of the season. This is because it is a part of society. Then the Kingdom must hold back. But there are also other reasons. Official companies, such as Istavia, Landsnet, and Nationalization, have a wide range of necessary projects in the coming years. I don't know if anyone in this room is willing to stop the project at Leifs Station to make room for other investments elsewhere in Iceland or to postpone building an electronic network in the country. I don't know if there's any ideas. But there is a balance. The government itself has to hold back on the first part of the period, but the last part of the period is in place. Then the spell will be mine according to my economic forecast, and then it will be my investments, which are planned for the members I mentioned. Then there is an opportunity for the Kingdom to get stronger in. This is also a large investment, an expansion of medical costs, and a wide variety of welfare issues. At the same time, there are additional investments in various transport infrastructures where it needs to be done. I can mention in terms of other well - being expenditures that are being added significantly to the maternity reserve and the opportunity to introduce the suggestions mentioned during this period, there is room for that. Of course, they need to talk to the labour market members about how we use the insurance bill to do so. There is also room to discuss social security and results of a committee that produced on spring days. It's at the Ministry of Health. For the school system, it is actually a guarantee of high school, starting up an additional payment in the university environment, which is a real need. There are other things. I can't all mention them. However, for transport, there are also plans for some of the investments that have been called in order to form animal tunnels, helicopters for land care, and other necessary maintenances that have become very urgent. It is very important that we are able to carry out all of these in balance, to increase our spending, but to resist the temptation that I know many will face, to spend more than 400 billion dollars on expenses of one year. But we've also said it somewhere else, and everyone agrees that the stability spending is to reduce debt in order to increase space, real space, without us taking that money to increase the pressure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This financial strategy is balanced.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u53	V.E.G. President. Today, we will discuss two very pleasant Parliamentary proposals submitted for the first time by approved law in December on official financial matters, i.e. A proposal for interpretation of the financial strategy for 2017/2021 and its policy. What's unnatural is that it's in 2016 that we go into this phase, into this kind of practice, organized practice that is to set this thing down to five years of age, set the course, which is very good. I have sometimes said that at the General Assembly, our communities were required to make and update a three - year plan each year, but the State did not expect them to be themselves. It's a real pleasure when we talk about public financials that our rural communities are in there too, because, of course, this has to work together, it doesn't make it enough that the government fund pays off debt, and if the rurals are in the middle of a lot of debt and collect debts, or vice versa. We have to look at this whole thing. In that respect it's very enjoyable to discuss this now, even though we're here for the first time, we're at our feet, and a lot of new things, which make it more difficult for you to go through all the factors. The balance of 34 joints is an enjoyable set up, the way you can go through expenses by means of topic areas, and there you go through the emphasis and action, etc. But I predict that now there is a small number of children who will make significant changes in order to make the material more accessible and easier to look up and observe. It's not long since we agreed the law and the system has had a relatively short time to set this up, as it's a month too late, all right with that, it must be respected that it takes time to make these changes. It is a joy to know that in this, the conclusions we can be happy about, the very positive figures about a lot, although, of course, they can always be criticized and have different opinions than those given by the present government. I would like to see it more in equal terms. I'm not going to go into it right now, I'm going to have the budget board to go through, and we're going to have a discussion with the rest of the business. When a budget has knit itself through it. The key point is that we're doing this at a time where the country has a very good condition for what is being set out, outside conditions such as there was a 75% reduction in global oil prices. For as much oil importers as we do, it quickly absorbs and fixes things, even though the price has changed somewhat and has gone up. I'm saying for my part that hopefully the increase won't be any bigger, hopefully the oil state won't get an agreement on a few races, or we'll start thinking about the prices in the world. I think it's okay as it is today. From the oil to the next bar, we can say, which is the arrival of foreign tourists. It is estimated that this year they will be 1.4 million if you include those who make cruise boats. It is a delightful development that brings much into the country. We can read about the growth of tourism services in the chapter on travel. Travel services have become the most creative industry in the country in terms of currency. It is prophesied, and hopefully we are able to continue extend the tourist period in both directions so that the whole year will be under and that tourists will reach not only the capital area but also the region, so that tourists will spread more throughout the country and throughout the year and continue to make a lot of money. You might point out that yesterday, I think, was the historic moment that the euro went down below 140 k. If I remember correctly, it's the first time since 2007. Depending on how you view it, you may talk about positive or negative conditions. I'm pointing this out because there are some things that can happen to our economy that are causing tourists to fall down. I think it was a why. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask, which goes into the hall, once saying that tourists could disappear in an instant, just as did the sildin in my hometown of old, which suffered a great economic hardship in 1967-1968. I hope it won't be. The third factor that is very practical for us is the fishing route. There's a lot of hunting and high prices, including... On account of the crews of the crown, but also because of the development of new local fish stocks, such as the mackerel. Then you can talk about the software and the software industry, and so on. V.E.G. The prime minister said just before, and this data shows that the money of this year's budget would be about 400 billion dollars. This is an example, but most of it is because of the stability of the broilers, which is 384 billion dollars. who are making money this year. I want to remind you that when people talk about the joy that there will be 400 billion left this year that we had a year in which these government groups were not in power, they got out, they set fire, they set them on fire, some 2008, even though most of them were falling the financial system across a wide range of areas that also caused it. I remind you of the 400 billion leftovers now that they can go back to 2009 with 220 billion in minus all that had happened and because of the tragedy we suffered in this country. [[Up front.]] We took over, huh? 1st. That's the north side. " The expansion company and the independence party after that government survived a few years of importing a foreign currency called highland, hippolls, etc., which is now trying to come out of the country by means of the methods we have discussed at times. As I say, there are many things in this which show the practical outside conditions in society and that here, at last, the stability development process is to come to an end and the establishment of assets largely due to funds and sellable assets from business banks. They are spoken of as being sold according to a system, and I hope that in that system the sale will highlight transparency, objectiveness, equality and practicality. I'll think of what I talked about yesterday about selling the property of the Lands Bank at Borg, that it would have been better if these four terms had come in at the time. A respectable president. Independence and progressives have suffered disaster when talking about the money of Reykjavík City, which I'm not particularly fond of, but I know that it is a tax payment in the past year, a huge debt of pension. This data refers to a total of 3,335 billion U.S. which are taken out of parentheses, updates in pension debt are due to increased survival rates and math calculations. It was also mentioned in the budget bill of this year but was not put in, and I say for my part: I wait excitedly to hear those numbers, just as I loved hearing the highest numbers. A prime minister speaks of the announcement that came from the government this morning, in which it snooped, and several governmentists, that Iceland was more equal in 2014, the first full year of the present government, but it was found to be somewhat misunderstood, a respected president, since this was before 2013. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This was the policy established by the last government in 2013 by its budget and policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u54	Madam President. I suppose the highest. Secretary of finance isn't far away, anyway. He may not have been busy sitting here in the hall, but let's face it. Of course, there are positive things to rejoice about the development of our national resources in Iceland. Most of the top social security numbers are in excellent shape. We experience here the sixth economy in a row. We experience improvements in the national farming of most standards, which took place in the last half of 2010. This is one of Iceland's continuous careers coming out of the collapse. Although there are still so little political men that they try to bring it all together at the beginning of the reign of May 2013, the data are presented here. [[Up front.]] It is possible for all of us to enjoy what is involved in bringing Iceland up from the most serious economic crisis and the greatest economic disaster we have ever faced since we became an independent republic and even longer. Six years of continuous and fairly good economic growth, with 2011 and 2013 as well as excellent economic growth during the past year, and now looking. Unemployed employment is about 1/3 of what it was when it was most, less than 3% instead of 9%. New growth issues in Icelandic industry have gone through a lot of weather and have contributed largely to economic and commercial growth in recent years. It is of interest that most of these articles are new or growing articles that are being held aside by traditional ones. Of course, it is far from travel, which has become the largest currency sector in the nation's population. But there are also software and technology and creative articles. In other words, there is something else that makes Iceland the main factors out of difficulty, economic and employment, if we use an old - fashioned analog when the requirement was made to many of us during our major years of hard times is that we named this ◯ something else that was to replace an aluminum. Maybe you remember. paritaprevir The Hjálmar of Hafliðason, after such discussions from his own home.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u55	I don't remember anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u56	All those who did not want each party were attacked and said: "You just say, " There's something else to replace. ' [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Now that's exactly what's happened. A senator, for instance, that this has flourished in Icelandic commercial life and has contributed to economic and commercial growth. That's good. If experience has taught us something, then the door to joy is slow. Then it is that when we feel that things are really going in our best interests, we really know how to get where we are. I have to say, I'm worried about you. I'm concerned when I hear uncritical self - righteous people talking about economic issues and prospects ahead. I'm worried that I've had a lot of experience with how dangerous it is. May I ask that we not again receive prime minister like the one who said in early 2006 that it would be particularly envyful to be prime minister in a country where things were going so well. And the talks we had to listen to in the years before the collapse of all things were wonderful and wonderful, which allowed us to warn and criticize - remember them and look at the gauges. Sadly, although many positive things, Madam President, and prospects in various respects are also being made up for signs of danger. Let me mention some of them. The most serious weakness of this document is that all its basis is based on a continuous and sustained economy to 2021. Of course, good luck will be great after that. But it's never been before in Iceland's history that we have a ten-year continuous economy. So it will be a whole new thing in our history if it comes true. But let's hope for the best, of course. But as soon as things change, they become very vulnerable to these strategy projects here because they depend on continuing economic growth increasing scopes for implementation and spending all the time, not on measures that are being made within the financial framework, or by income or otherwise. Second, the old sign of weakness has begun to appear, but it does not have the same effect sometimes, i.e. The exchange equation has become negative. He turned around last year, and there were 30 billion of us moving out enough goods to afford what we brought in. But the rest of the service business is so great, and insurmountation of currency is still fairly balanced. In the past, there would have been an awesome warning and always ended; at the time of a trading court, there was a brief gap and a year away. Third, there is a great weakness in this plate, and I hope to the highest. Secretary of finance be somewhere close. I'm sorry to the highest. A minister should not be present for the discussion and may receive an answer if he has a problem. But that's his problem. We're starving in the middle of an investment. It's not working. This is a ruined plan for the government's investment plans for the next five years. The schedule at our table is ruined because it doesn't work and there's a disaster in the future if we continue to starve our country's investments in this way. We will not pay back a debt, at least not a debt, but a debt. We are forming a huge debt in the future by letting the road system collapse and by making our transport weaken. Investigated investment levels should be maintained from the state at the end of the crisis, 1.3% of gross domestic product. Yeah, it's supposed to be up at the end, up to 1.5%. It's almost one percentage of the time too small, because history teaches us that on average, the state will have to protect at least 1%, 2◯2.5% of GDP in investments if we are to meet the demands of time. There's a tremendous weakness in this program that I can't accept. You must set your lines differently, and the next government, which will be a different, changed from this, will do it as its first job, if I have any authority, to adopt the criteria, including. In this respect. There is also a weakness in this strategy that the survival of rural society as it is drawn up here is unacceptable. That they're going to be at zeros for five years, that they can't make positive living the whole time. Why? Because their income stocks don't work, and the government doesn't expect any part of a community to be righted in any way. All five large rural communities in the country increased their debt last year - their debt increased. Will we continue to do so? It's not working. It is also the weakness of this strategy that the scope, which is mainly formed for economic growth and, in some respects, the decrease in interest rates at the end when debt gains start to fall and there is considerable attention to interest costs, is dependent on the lack of room for payment on the perennial budget, the maintenance of budgets, 1% or 0.5% of the budget. What will humans do? Yes, instead of engaging in the new assignments there, they will use the new space to meet the requirements for living, so in many cases, people will get the most out of the same routine. I think health issues need more than that. We do not meet the requirement to build up our health system with some force. We do not meet the requirement to reduce the expense of patients. We do not meet the requirement to prepare for an amazing increase in the elderly, where there will be a bomb in the need for a medical facility in the year 20223/4,2024, that has been shown. True, the three nursing homes that have been assigned are to be built. No more. That's all there is in this program. That won't do. The government is there making mistakes, in my opinion. The odd thing is, the government hasn't made it, e.g. In recent years the price of making on roads goes with the price. 7 billion people are needed because this government has no good at getting needed projects. It is always the same conclusion, to accept it, and to think that all things are resolved by reducing taxes. That's what people think. However, the conclusion is, and this strategy points out that despite the high economic interest and space they make up, the situation is very narrow. As a result, government, state, and rural income stocks are too weak to live up to the well - being of the Iceland community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the tour. A former financial minister is at home when discussing this strategy, as has been the custom. Hv. A senator made a road program for publicity, but I could not get into it during my ten - minute talk. I would like to say that it is very special that the members of the Parliament are only ten minutes away in discussing such a large plan, but they can, of course, come back once more and talk, although it seems that they are not very interested in discussing the plan. But I want to agree with what. A senator who asks him about a transport plan. The strategy is almost a transport plan for nothing. I'll take an example. In our area, so - called northern regions, which are expected to reach from the Gulf of Hunsafa and as far east as Thors Harbor, are estimated to be 200 billion this year. K. ... tothetrajectoryand 150 million. K. next year. I agree with it. One senator says that cutting down is being done to make more leftovers. It is a well - known science that there is no problem in cutting everything down and creating leftovers. However, that was not done in our time. During the troubled years of the country, probably the most difficult years since the collapse of the silen population, with the tragic events that occurred then, the financial crisis, was given on transportation, so that year after year Iceland was hit in transport. I'm asking why. Senator: I'm talking about 150 million. K. will be concluded in the north during the next year, how will he see the road system developing and building in the areas we've always spoken of as being near and necessary? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u58	Madam President. I don't think we can live with this transport plan and the grounds here in the state budget until the end of the five-year period. There is a catastrophe ahead of us, a crisis is in store, and that is when it really does. The latest news on the Web is based on road managers'comments on how the roads are falling, the structural tolerance to be eliminated, and the cremation, which means again that it will be even more expensive to rebuild them. Also, in a transport program, without the time we have to go far into it, the outcome of certain areas in it has been with them that I have never seen anything like it in my 33 - year - old history here. I have never seen an entire region of land empty with no construction, as the northern region of the Roadmaker should be in accordance with a transport program in the year 2017,2018. I believe it was a big mistake not to market the income stocks of Vega, while they're still markets, to follow the price. I don't understand why the government hasn't taken advantage of the opportunity when an oil price has taken its way down and the gas litigator dropped to 100 bucks. to bring the remaining stock to the top. No one would have noticed. Then we would have 7 billion more to play. That'd be a hell of a relief. You're right. A senator says that there were a great deal of projects and blesseds in the pipes of a crash, and it remained a very high level of execution, and we let it pass through and cross the ruined clearance of the Roadmaker, like that. A senator and then a minister will remember. But we must also face the fact that, for example, we were greatly attracted to one another. In maintenance, and there was little more to do than save what could be saved. It was never thought of as but as a temporary arrangement. Who thought that in the sixth year of economic growth and when the state's fund is in bullshit plus, we'd still be tormenting this party and it's worse than he was at the end of the crisis? It never occurred to me, for it was really our emphasis that we gave in the 2013s right away, such as hell. A senator knows, with the investment plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u59	V.E.G. President. It is a happy review when the then secretary of transportation and the then secretary of finance sat down to negotiate transportation funds during our difficult years and rights. A senator and a former secretary of finance say that they were better donated to and the record of Iceland. It is also true that there was cutting down for maintenance, but it is, in effect, the maintenance of man's building up a new road. If I take an example from my district, there is no need for a lot of money to be maintained on the way to weapons farms today, which was often impossible because the roads were as they were elsewhere in 1950, and there are other areas that can be considered as examples in those areas. This was actually a preventive measure in this and less maintenance when a road was built up. This may include building up roads for today. But it is true that the lack of money is affecting today's road system, so let us limit ourselves to the road system in this short answer. Of course, this can be added in a transport plan regarding flying issues and rejections. It's almost nothing. But for example, because we are taking examples from our district, the northern region, which is also a driving force. 1st. That's the north side. " The Hafliðason million Bogi in the entire area next year are calculated to be sufficient for less than two miles of new roads, perhaps only 1.9 if the bids get better. I don't think we're gonna make it to two miles. It was this way, a respectable president, that when the local government began writing to us members of the North Eastern standard, I asked them to wait quietly because we must have made a mistake in printing on the transport program. [[The president calls.]] I thought there were some pages in there, but, unfortunately, it wasn't. It was the number. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: Do I agree that we may be able to make it to two miles in the north next year? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u60	Madam President. It could happen that there wouldn't be much more than that, maybe only about one mile like a dog. A senator says. Why don't we just blame that attitude for what we're doing? paritaprevir The Hjálmar of Hafliðason, the jetpot will be marked on it? As a result, I read for joy. paritaprevir Bogi of Hafliðason Vaderson, 1st. That's the north side. " He was critical of the transport program in an interview with a very good regional medium. Perhaps it was mostly a doll, but it was still a problem. A member of the transport program is not very successful. We can ask ourselves, " Where are these projects not being started? ' Now they're drying up. The situation is this way in the Northeast standard, so you take it, though I'm always bored by comparison, that once they finish, they'll dry up in the district, there'll be nothing going on. That's not possible. That's impossible. I think most of the sins are, and they follow us far back, and they're responsible for a lot of things, that the country's national and network has been completely up to 20 years. That's a terrible situation. The longest road system of undeniably malarways available in the country is in the northeastern part of the country. That's over 2 up. km in some parts of the Road program on such roads in the north and east of the country. That's what the long dollars and the vast provinces like the Shire and the dollars of Southern Germany do, etc. There's a huge, totally unacceptable road system, and we can't get anywhere to fix it. Then I agree that the state of the internal flight system is completely unacceptable. It's both been tortured in terms of new investments, maintenance, and then the service contract with Istavia is so slow that nothing happens at the same time as we see tens of billions of sets in construction at Keflavík. This isn't how it works. [[The president calls.]] We need to change the focus and put more money on this investment, because it is not as if we should throw money out of the window, Mrs. President, even if it is a lucrative means of transportation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's one of the best future investments in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u61	Madam President. I'm going to the ten minutes that I'm assigned to speech class mainly to focus on foreign affairs, but at the outset, I'd like to say in general about this council-sounding proposal for financial matters for the year 2017-2021 that I'm concerned about the direction it is being proclaimed. Hv. paritaprevir In her earlier speech today, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter asked if there could be a special goal for such a plan, and she pointed out that this was not the case. I've used myself to be a politician, and therefore I believe that equalizes should, of course, be one of the goals with such a plan. This may distinguish us, the greater part, the highest. A government here at the Council. Hv. paritaprevir In her speech, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir also pointed out that there is a historical minimum of the combination in this document. If connected with the equation, it is one major concern. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Senators have established various aspects of a future view of a community that is being preached here, and I don't like it. As an example, just before discussing a road program, the phrase used here can be taken as an example. As I said, I'm going to focus primarily on foreign affairs. State contributions increase somewhat in this program, and just as on page 18 does. For several reasons, this is explained. I'd like to cover a few of them. It contains the highest cost of developing cohesion, such as. can be seen on page 18. 99 of the Parliamentary decrees. There is an excellent picture in which 35% of the budget of 2016 assigned to the Ministry of State went to that very case, developing cooperation. As shown in the Synod arrangement, you can read on page 24 of this magazine. 103 Governments support the United Nations goal that industrialized countries provide 0.7% of the population income for developing cooperation. I don't know if I should allow myself to say it's Colombian, but it's kind of sad that a whole of three lines down there, you can see that it's far from being in Iceland even though the Icelandic government supports that goal. In 2008, though, contributions to development were 2,37% of the budget of national income. That's the highest percentage we've ever made in Iceland. These contributions were cut down after a collapse, but they began to rise again. To consider the aim of raising these contributions each year, a conquistancy proposal for the 2013 International Development Team (EIONNS) in 20132016 of the 141th legislature Council can be found. They would have, for example. should be up to 0.42% in 2016, however, only 0.25% per year. From now on, it is at the highest level. The government has been turned aside from that policy, and it reveals the policy of the present government. The question programme aims to further increase the proportion to 0.25% in 2017, to 0.26% in 2018, and to the final period in 2021. That seems completely unacceptable to me. The situation of world affairs is simply so that no more have been on the run since the end of World War II. Granted, many people are fleeing from war, but people are also fleeing from climate changes that are still difficult for those in their worst situation because of poverty. That is why I feel that we must do even more, for our actions do not fail. In fact, this same program can be read on the important issues in Iceland. I'd like to mention another thing that will also fit in with foreign affairs and that is in defense. In a way, it is what leads to NATO. The contributions are to be raised by 400 million. A.M., including to meet the increasing need for the defenses of NATO, Iceland. Other factors are mentioned. I think that money would be better worth everything else, so let me say. The plan, for example, provides a long list of updates, updates, equipment, and the activities of NATO. I think if this list was followed very closely, it might be possible to go far beyond 400 million. K. I think it is much closer to the government to start telling us about participation in the NATO military and anti-aggressive alliance, which contains one of the world's most aggressive powers. I think it would be a much better and less expensive policy. The money could be spent on something else. There is one thing mentioned in this case that cannot be ignored in view of news of leaks from the TTIP discourse, which otherwise has been very secret. It will cause the formation of these leakages to lose up to 1 million jobs if these agreements occur. In this program it can be read that Iceland first wishes to contribute to a sister interview called TiSA, as well as to identify Iceland's interests when it comes to the TTP and TTIP agreements. I think our energy in here would be much better if we were to focus on other matters. I see my time is up. I just want to say again that the contributions to development are the major scandal in the foreign affairs of this program. [[The president calls.]] And then I'd like to repeat what I said at the outset; this is not an equation plan, and here's too little money taken together. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u62	President. I cannot begin this speech as if it were nothing. I also told it yesterday when I spoke up in unsubstantiated i don't think we've been told in the memory of the importance of this government and what it wants to emphasize to the election. It is also annoying that there were no election days left, and here the government's share is treated by the lesser part, and actually by the people of this country, by absolute rudeness. I cannot begin my case here without bringing it to the attention and strongly protesting the conduct of the government sector and perhaps especially the Minister who brings up the issues we are speaking about today. He clearly declared that this election period should be shortened for one assembly. This means that this is not to be the second week of September. That's what I'd like to say before I reach the points discussed here. This is where we'll discuss a financial plan for 2017-2021. True, in contrast with the other parts on the program that follow, it may be only possible to put up with this discussion because it is legal. In fact, this strategy was supposed to be on April 1, I think I'm right, so it's late, but it's legal to discuss this case, and it's actually being done for the first time in a year, so this must be one of the government's priorities whatever it decides. It is better to talk about this here than other matters that have not been talked to us in the memory of a discussion until the election is held. The forwardness of this budget is greatly improved, just as the government laws on government finance are a major improvement in the way government is handled and not an unnecessary need to correct it. As someone mentioned in the earlier discussions of this document no doubt will change over the course of time, but this is the first plan of its kind and should be delighted that it has come to pass. This is the financial program of the present government, so it is no wonder that it shows its emphasis. I don't agree with the priorities of the government, so I don't agree with much of the plan. Still, it's fine to get her out. It's quite clear, then, that when there's one more thing going to happen at the council all the plans for the plan to be changed and in the spirit of the new more part that will be taken over here, which I have faith to look more equal to in the community than is being done today. I thought it was the highest. Secretary of finance in reply and history earlier - and indeed the highest. Similarly, prime minister - try to minimize our current language here. The prime minister said: "Can anyone think of preventing a project at the Cheflavour Airport? Of course no one can think of it. But when it comes to saying that we need a bigger public investment for the next few years that they say they can't attack because Istavia is in great projects at Keflavour Airport, people aren't talking about quitting it, and it's not talking about, but, like, the highest level. The prime minister indicated that some of the stability initiatives will be spent in investments. No one's talking about it. We all agree that the stability spending is meant to pay off debt. But we're talking about making more money in this community. More money can be made, the wealth tax has been cut off, the fishing costs are lowered, the energy taxes are raised, the food tax is increased - all of which we have counted very frequently during the past months and at least Some of us will not tire out in doing so. This could help to make more money for that, e.g. To make more an investment or to increase it here more than is required. A better repair of the health system can be done than plans are available. When we say that we wanted to do this differently, nobody's talking about being irresponsible and destroying the stability plans and so on. No one is talking about it, we're talking about having a different view of the money and how to earn money there. V.E.G. Secretary of finance says: There seems never to be a time to lower taxes. Well, I disagree with the Minister, e.g. to reduce taxes, as he has suggested to carry the income tax in two steps. I just don't agree with that. I don't think it's time to reduce the number of income taxes. Then people become frustrated and point out that the wealth tax was temporary. Yes, yes, he was temporarily put on, but when something is temporarily applied, it does not mean that it should be extended if necessary. It is still necessary in this society to maintain an investment, as mentioned. There is still poverty in this country, there are people under the poverty line, old - age pensioners don't get the same benefits as the rest of us. In the meantime, it's not time to lower taxes. I would also like to state that, of course, the environment of the industry is good. They are not to be overcrowded, for, of course, the trade industry is the only key to our having a good life in this country. But the pros must also shoulder their responsibilities. I would like to suggest that, fortunately speaking, traveling services are on lower levels of taxation. I believe that the workplace is to shoulder responsibility and shoulder its burden, shoulder the social cost, just as we all do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u63	Madam President. We're here discussing a five-year financial programme and the financial policy of this government. It's been asked here if there's an equation of directions and plans. On the contrary, I don't think so. On the contrary, I pull them apart with the inhabitants of the land and the land. It may not have been too much, but it seems to me that some areas are very narrow in planning and policy. Why do I say that? Because more often than not, when it comes to areas of land such as the capital area, it is not intended for the State to make any investments, rather to hold hands, and to come in when bad rivers come. I think that the parts of the country that the map does not cover more often than that the state holds them, has no investments, and is waiting for the expansion of the private sector in densely populated areas, such as the Istavia area and the Chefaviar Airport, for example. This is a very serious thing. We know the work of the government over the past few years, how it has handled matters, and how it has led a clear right course that also appears in this program. We know the food tax, and how it has been treated by older ones and disability by not allowing their wages to go with the country's pay. We know how the tax system that has benefited low wages has been most effectively broken down, and now it is aimed for only two steps. The colleges have been working really hard, and they're in a lot of trouble. Keeping access to higher schools at 25 years is a serious thing, especially to many territories. It has also shown that there is a historical minimum of fusion. The next five years in the health system, people are so proud that they are talking about 30 billion. All right, but there's more to it. Although this is a step in the right direction, more money is needed for health care, and the provision of signing has shown the clear will of the people of the land to use their taxes to build a strong, stable health system throughout the country. We know how the government is now going to balance the cost of health care, not by adding funding to the system to aim for the release of the health system. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I just want to come into the pros like the agriculture. The sheep's contract and the livestock contract depend on a future plan. I'd like to say about the farmers who are behind the sheep's contract attacking sheep making a hard move on the weak areas, with a 20% reduction in bone rent in the coming years compared to the existing agreements. This means that the person will be made up of large sums per year on the basis of what is today. This is not to strengthen a home in sick areas but to the contrary. You can remember that sheep deals over your head were thoughtless as part of regional policy. It's not, but it's going to be tough on the weakest areas where sheep farmers work today and I'm afraid it'll be very difficult for many of them to continue operating. With regard to the growing sector and the fastest growing sector, there is only talk that the host's cost will increase from 100 k. of 300 K. What a surprise it is that as yet there is no conclusion on how the State provides financial support for the country's infrastructure to meet the huge number of tourists coming to the country and just going to grow! Then, of course, we are talking about so much of that legal group. I am making transport, a new strategy to 2017, indicating that there is no ambition and is simply a disgrace to the income that has come in from tourism recently. This will cost us as a community not only to tourists but also to the inhabitants of the land, which live in dire circumstances far and wide around the country. It is impossible for humans to be proud of equalizing and paying off debts and other factors as they completely pull their feet into all the infrastructure of the country in terms of transportation. Then I'm talking about America's ports, airports and the road system. It's all like they've fallen asleep in brasauce at the beginning of a season and they're not awakened from that dream. If I came into the fishing business only, I would have wanted to see that in this program there would be some potential for increased income from that article. Then I'm not talking about totality, some flat rise in the article as a whole. We know that it is as if the public in the country had a variety of incomes in this article. It would have had to balance much better, take care of the fishing fees, and look for ways of raising them in the fishing grounds where men, good and well, would break gold. Is that good? They've been building up and investing themselves and paying off debts, but not all sit at the same table. There are small and medium - sized fishing companies that do not live under the same fishing costs as the giants, who certainly meet higher fishing costs. The government has given up money and has made no plans for the next five years. Of course, the whole community, whether the health system, the education system, or man's ability to strengthen and improve the interests of the elderly, the cripples, and the children in the country. It is true that child - rearing should be for the most money - oriented, but it was not initially thought - provoking; it should be primarily to attend families while raising children because of its high cost. It's this ambition that I feel to shine through the financial program, considering that this is where economic growth began in 2010. Humans are happy that all external circumstances have been practical for us, whether as low as oil prices or a massive stream of tourists to the land that has made a lot of money. Instead of using economic growth to improve the community and the welfare and use of the public in the country, people are increasingly promoting the fact that there are two nations in the country, and in reality some regions are left behind as weak economic areas that are not to be used, and they do not enjoy the taxes they have paid to the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u64	President. We're here to discuss a proposal for a hearing about a financial plan. These are strange times we are living in today, and in reality it is quite strange to discuss a plan into a long future and listen to secretary of finance and economics recommend a plan into the future when the government he is in charge with a prime minister is not authorized. The government is, in fact, a government government government in which she has announced that she does not intend to complete the election season but that it will shorten it by one council. It is quite a historical fact, considering that these are two major groups of power in the history of Iceland, that in this way they are driven by unprecedented political events large in international proportions. But on this day, in the midst of the turmoil, it comes to the highest power. Secretary of the economy, Bjarni Benediktsson, which measures the budget for the EU budget in 2017/2021. This proposal for Congress is not just a technical document, it is a document which involves policy on the basis of the politics as the highest. The government stands for and its authority is out. So it is not easy for you to participate in the discussion on the grounds given, but it is our lot here once after the second time to take part in a bizarre political situation. This is certainly one of such occasions. I'd like to mention a few things here. Here, representatives of the government have considered important factors to consider that this kind of plan should include the main objective for Icelandic society, not just for the Icelandic economy but also for the Community Convention. As shown in the fine talk of the day. paritaprevir The Catherines of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir should be equal to being the primary objective and the main theme of this kind, and here we should see a plan for the elimination of poverty in Iceland. Here we should see a plan to disappear from costs in the health system, and here we should see ambitious plans of this kind when it truly is the situation where the economic recovery has been longer than we have previously seen under unprecedented conditions during the last terms when men were given an extraordinary task in the arms but then returned to the current governments a comprehensive task that has additionally enjoyed that on the shores have applied favorable external conditions to one another; travelers, oil prices, and many similar factors. Some have mentioned the transport arrangements so that I do not intend to spend extra time with them even if they are under the committee I am on. Environmental and Transport Committee. The current board of directors is beyond control because it includes a plan for neglecting the key to society and the transportation system. I'd like to kill some of the environmental factors. First of all, I'd like to mention a very important key element that is related to the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Environment Ministry and the travel Department in cooperation. Note the plan on page 18. 149 regarding the travel process that nature continues to be the main attraction of the Icelandic tourism services and that its protection will be targeted by stress management and sustainable development. It's all good and blessed, however, in this program up to 2021 it's not about the construction of a Museum of Nature, which is a key institution in our ability to receive tourists so easily, that I'm not talking about important parenting and education values for Icelandic society, both for children, for schools, for college, and for the whole Icelandic public. It is entirely unacceptable, then, that a body of nature does not have a noble place in this program. The text on the environment contains some comments on environmental management and the arrangements of the seminary. There are some of the changes that took place during the last terms of the creation of the Agency and the decision - making committees of environmental and resource, the induction of EU water directives, the new laws on climate 2012, new chemical laws in early 2013, and new nature protection laws, which took place on November 15, 2015, of course, were natural protection laws, No. 60/2013. This chapter is very clear to the fact that the group of paintings has actually been neglected during this terms. The most outstanding example of this is the fact, as shown here on page 18. 163, there is a plan that areas of the Preservation Programme will be declared non-violent as well as other areas under the protection laws of nature, No. 60/2013. But it would certainly be good to ask, What frame of mind is that, because it is still not a peace description under the Preservation Plan adopted at the council in January 2013, even though we already have a frame 3 in the introduction process. So it is worth considering that the advanced government should here list some plans for a peaceful relationship that it has completely neglected during the current terms. The fact is also an indication of how weak this strategy is, that these are not steps in integrating climate goals. There is no evidence that there is an increase in the significance of this class. Iceland has undergone a common objective of the Paris Convention, the joint objective of the European Union and Norway, but there is still no evidence for the introduction through the General Assembly. And more important, key issues that should, of course, be very low in climate targets, such as transport and environmental issues, are very weak in these aspects of the programme, i.e. The debate on the climate. This is to be taken up on page 18. 164, which says, by permission of the president: To meet the high commitments of the Paris Convention, the measures must be performed. Of course, that's not enough. The climate is such a carrier in all the forward planning and planning of the future that it should be seen both in the media of the environment, in transport and in the sector, in agriculture, in marine or in other matters. If we're going to live up to our name, and if we're going to live by the agreement we've agreed to have such a plan, it's a plan. proposals for interpretation of the financial strategy for 2017/2021 are primarily to be characterized by a broad array of climate issues. He should be here all over and around. A respectable president. After the election in the fall, which will be in October, if the word of the government's president, a new government will take over. That government will probably and hopefully for Iceland stress the equation, the extinction of poverty and climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u65	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss financial and financial policies at the same time, and it's fine. This is done on the basis of new laws on public finances that are of utmost importance to keep in mind. This schedule and policy applies to the next five years, or 2021. It has long been a matter of trust in terms of government spending, and it can be said that the step of accepting the laws on government finance that went into effect in January is one of the most important milestones on that road, the way of increasing discipline, and of giving us tools to work on the goals of stability. Therefore, it is of utmost importance in itself to establish this project into law and in order to achieve the goals set out here, as well as to increase awareness and long term stability. In fact, we, a respected president, are discussing financial policy and financial programs in a very significant situation. Then I'm talking about the conditions that are drawing up in the Icelandic economy, not necessarily in the politics. There has been a tremendous reversal in Icelandic economic systems, and in fact there has become an amazing economic reversal and restoration of any kind. When I speak of this reversal, I mean, I don't mean that he happened at one point, but he's got a lot of work behind him and we've done pretty well since the collapse in winning us back, it'll just have to say, and all the practicals show that mark today, positive signs. The economic forecasts, the up-to-date National Economics Programme based on and other projections that can be referred to, we refer here to form the European Union for economic purposes, show interest in maps until the next eight years. Surely, such a position is a great opportunity. In fact, it is important that we at the same time take the same time very carefully and carefully, that we live in the best interests of ourselves. That's why I think we're using a very important tool here, and that's also due to the discussions that have taken place today on financial and financial policies. This is a traditional policy in which we see long-term policy and its targets. This is a very detailed piece of paper for over 200 pages and for the previous round. We will discuss in particular the basis of the programme and policy development, but in the future. I'm expecting that the spending sheet that follows here will be better discussed and the subject areas all discussed. This tool, the basis of a law on public finances, will trust all jobs and grounds to increase the discipline and to achieve the desired stability that we will receive, and will be essential to the economy and the basics of it, the jobs, and the households. Of course, it tells itself when we discuss policy and plan to discuss the objectives of such policies. Here you will find a very detailed assessment and a summary of the objectives of all major causes. It has long been called upon by a respected president that there is a coordinated management of money in Iceland, which is at the hands of the Federal Bank, and not only government funds but also of the local community. There is a turning point in this course. It is also important when we consider the economic factors behind the design of the strategy in some way in which the economy is involved and that we take into consideration it and support measures and decisions taken, both in the sector of government, government, money, and so on. Now, as I came in before, for the first time, we are following the official financial laws and the 7th paragraph. They set goals in a certain way, but it indicates so - called financial conditions. It is that the total balance of over five years should always be positive and the annual tail will always be less than 2.5% of GDP. Second, the overall debt, apart from pension bonds, business debts, and the rest of the funds and bank accounts, is less than 30% of the gross domestic product. This debt, a respected president, will be reached as early as 2017. This is of great importance because the government has been trying to reduce the debt of state funds and reduce interest rates in further building up and spending on the welfare systems of our world, such as education, general well - being, and most important to our health. It is very evident in the program that these classes are greatly increased, especially to the health system. Of course, we must always be realistic and rely on our systems and policy. Choose whose option is, and with this tremendous increase in cost and progress in the level of employment, there is, of course, a blinking light about the expansion of the system. That is why it may be said that it is an urgent and important time to have agreed to take this tool into account in the long - term legal application of government funds. I believe that it may be as important as what is presented in the policy itself, although, of course, it is always of utmost importance to make official policy decisions. However, it is equally important that we have the tool to do so. I'd like to mention it specifically, Mr. Honorable President, because it has been a long time for the government to get into this direction. It is, as I came on, a bright outlook in Icelandic economy. The budget is based on revised national ideals, and we must take it into account. Stability is very important in future losses and years. History teaches us that we have often found it difficult in such situations not to lose ourselves on the side of expenses. I therefore believe that the financial rules presented in Article 7. law on government finances is a very important requirement for lawmakers and governments to follow. I think that there can at least be a parapolitic agreement to work on their financial rules. A respectable president. There's a crazy man who's going through a national budget and government policy in ten minutes, but he's set up for a second round. We'll discuss the budget frame and the topic areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u66	A respectable president. It's been fun watching the discussion here today on a financial agenda until the next five years. Here, people have discussed the plan far and wide with great knowledge and experience, many of them, and they have gone through the main points. What I wanted to use in this talk is to stick to health matters. It has been observed that 30 billion will be laid in this time period, which is extremely positive. The big question, though, is whether this is enough money to get health care to the level that the public calls for and then appeared on Saturday when President Kári Stefánsson, president of the Icelandic genetics, handed over the highest. Prime Minister's signatures, 86 of you. Icelanders requiring health care systems to be placed at least 11% of GDP. It has also been repeated that the public's will is so that their priorities are far more important to health care than they are now. So I wondered if there is enough to be done in this legal program. This is better known than it should be said that the situation in this important language is not good at all. Any improvement is needed and immediately so. As shown in the ASI report on these matters, the health - care network of patients has nearly doubled in recent decades, and it is now time for home to be less than 20% of all health - care expenses to pay directly for health care. In view of the high rate of health care expenditures, the highest pay rate in older people's homes, the unemployed, those outside the work market, primary education, low - paying employees, longsicks, and desperates is the case. That's a great position. Recently, the highest level of activity was laid. Healthcare Ministers provide basic health insurance and patient costs that may be a good first step toward more righteous systems, but there are many doubts, as some of the reports have been received in this case. One of the reviews quoted by Rúnar Vilhjálmsson, a professor of sociology at the University of Iceland's nursing department, recently worked in the health and life - style of the Icelanders. It shows that those who benefit most from the changes made by the bill are groups who need a lot of health care and should, of course, be delighted. However, even further intervention is required to ensure all who need assistance to maintain bioavailability regardless of the economy. In addition, Rúnar's study shows that in the last six months before this study, nearly 22% of the Icelanders had delayed their practice of medical treatment, even if these people felt that they needed medical attention. Of those who had delayed to see a doctor, nearly 40% reported that they did so because of the health care cost. The higher proportion of household income paid for medical expenses, the more common was the delay in the ministry. Of those who spent 4% or more of their income in health care, about one third had deferred their efforts to seek help. A respectable president. While this plan is worth the price, it is clear that more and more money is needed to meet the demands of the public mentioned earlier. Senators and executives are to represent the people in the country, and they, or those who work here, are to listen to voices, weak and strong, in these matters. There are ambitious plans in the section on Health Care, and it should be noted that there will be an increase in money spent in the construction of the Land Hospital, with some uncertainty eliminated in that national contract. There are, however, more hospitals in this country than does the land hospital. If I look to my district that I'm going to allow myself to do now, it's clear that a lot of money needs to be added to a business like that. Southland Health Institute. According to a letter received by the chairman of that well - arranged agency, there is a great cut if action is not taken immediately. I'm gonna, with President's permission, quote this letter and use it as a focus in my next few minutes' lawsuit. In that regard, the director, including the president, said: "I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. " that there was rapid growth in clinical emergency and extramedullary services at the National Institute of Health during the first three months of this year. The Management Board has completed a review of budgets after the end of the first quarter of 2016. Since the initial projection in November 2015, significant increases have been observed following new contracts and implementations of the books in a collective agreement. The creation of the Agency for the first three months of the year is in balance with the agreed Ministry of Health for the Agency's management programme. However, following a review of the paymen, and the year's projections after the first three months, it is unique that about 152 billion are observed. K. is missing to keep the Agency's management plan balanced. Based on the disintegration of budgets in 2016, labour workers in the South American Health Organization are particularly subject to management programs. Besides the shoulder - to - shoulder HSU, the Southland Institute of Health, the debt problems of former health institutions in the South, with overgrading loans in the bank of 90 million and in debt of 100 million who have been turning between two and three months into their dues. Thus, the total failure of the health facility totals over 340 million. K. This problem is unsolved and unsolved, pushing it ahead of him, which makes it possible for surgery to take place. The Agency is well-designed to staff and has received a growing number of patients, including the emergency department, hospitalisation after surgery and treatment of the Land Hospital and for home treatment. In the large context of where the financial expenses fall, the current health - care services are more reasonable and inexpensive than those of the Land Hospital. The damage to the Agency's services will lead to medical costs elsewhere. It is therefore wise and important that the current investment in the infrastructure and human resources of the Agency be the best of all. The financial resources lacking in this economy can do tremendous benefits for citizens and tourists in the South and reduce the problems that will be least common to the Land Hospital and cause dissatisfaction in the South. It is safe to say that if people in the South don't have to cut down significantly in the Agency's services, the increased number of tourists coming in recent years has increased the pressures on this institution, especially in their districts and in the Southnes, the most popular and the largest tourist attractions in the country. It would be a bad idea to cut down on this institution. I cannot see that in the programme presented here, the budget should be increased to this institution or to other institutions. Money is to be invested, but it is not enough. I take this as an example to point to the present and persistent problem. It is not enough to make long - term plans; it must deal with the problem as it is today. Then, a respected president, I would like to bring up the subject of health care, which is designed to play a much greater role in the coming losses. That is well, but is she prepared to accept the increased number of patients if there is no significant improvement in financial support? If health care is to be met by her needs, the number of health professionals, nurses, psychologists, and nutrition experts in her staff must be increased. If it is done and the funds needed for her activities and for increased prevention, this will result in a great deal of health care. Sadly, looking at preventative and early intervention in the health system will seem to be a little short on account of its recovery. Similarly, in mental - health matters, they are in a lot of trouble, and although a recent four - year plan has been proposed and a mental - health policy has become a problem in the community, where people feel that there is going to be a lot more money on these matters and right away. This too would have a powerful and positive effect on the future. It says more than many words that about 38% of those who have energy in Iceland are doing so because of their spiritual illness. Sadly, though, in this program, mental health matters are hardly mentioned, which are probably the subject that is burning on people today. We've got to deal with it real hard. In any case, we must listen to the public. It is clear what the public's requirement for the Commission and the legislature; it is to place more money in the medical system and put it in full priority. As we know, health care is a key agency and a foundation in a modern society that makes it possible for us to run here a good society that handles all the disorders. It's enough to take this program, but I'm going to make it work, and I want to use my time to point out that in many places a pot is broken and must be dealt with right now. So many were those words, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u67	Madam President. I'm just going to go back to the financial program. There is a short period of time and much that we need to talk about, and of course not completely, even if you have the opportunity to return to your speech. I want to go through a few things at first. After a tremendous recession that followed the collapse, it is suggested that expenses be covered for the added consumption in the land, and so far it has been to a historic minimum, as I have previously done. As a nation, we have to worry about this. We who argue that health care and school matters will not be placed in the hands of private people who, unfortunately, seem to take over or be assigned to take over the role of the official, this plan will be fulfilled. It is also worth considering that, whether we discuss prison affairs or the law, we have a system that is fundless. Police officials have severely reduced their numbers, and the system of justice is not okay, for example. Unfortunately, the County Court of Reykjavík is expected to add an intermediate level, which means 500 million. K. extra expenses a year, just for that. In fact, I have doubts about the performance of those numbers and I consider the cost to be seriously underestimated. On page 18. 44 shows that the purpose of tax policy is multiple and is primarily designed to raise the financial resources needed to finance his business. However, the recovery has been good, but it has been temporary and has resulted in much monopolies. It is important to include such factors when the need for income in the form of taxes to finance business and other necessary expenses for the State is evaluated. Thus, tax reductions in today's year - to - year trip are not wise, and not really in a mood, but they still believe in the Independence Party and proclaim it. Pits to social security are going up by 1% over the price. After the greatest recession period in history, 1% is also expected to be in general in the best cases, e.g. The law, the education, the health. Clearly, this is not enough to straighten out the cows in these lawsuits. This is expected to result in 3% of old age stress, which can be regarded as of no increase, probably a further decrease if we take with the rate of the elderly. And then we have to wonder what a 3% increase in the S-labelled medicine means. Does this mean that a new drug can be purchased at some level? Of that I have doubts. Economic and economic ministers were not clearly identified earlier today as whether 30 billion to be put in medical affairs over the next five years are both stock costs and business costs. If the target cost is included in this additional, it is clear that the problem we face in health care today continues to grow, and it remains clear that the core of treatment will not be at the hospital until the end of this five - year schedule if all is resolved. It is also said to work to improve the facilities in Akureyri. There are no plans for when or how to build on it, and the need is enormous. It is not expected that the patient's payment parties will be reduced, but only steps as we have been going on here recently, and that's what I am completely opposed to being the result of a minister's case. I hope we have a chance to change that. The independence party and the forward party's policy is that poorer and, in fact, older citizens can earn their income and do not need pension money from a insurance agency. It is not yet clear how the government groups intend to achieve this, for it cannot be said that professional life was particularly productive. All too often, it rejects microorganisms that may be able to work and is reluctant to employ microbubbles at work. The lack of ambition is complete when it comes to disabled people and their employment activities, but this document says, among other things, that the employment participation of a disabled public labour market will become an incentive for professional workers. It is not only a lack of ambition but also a lack of respect that professional drivers are to be instructed that it is the resources the government intends to have on tables with regard to the employment of disabled persons. It also states that access to services and resources should be stressed in the immediate environment of children and adolescents. What does that mean? How's that in the prax? No evidence of that. These are good ideas, but they don't seem like they've got it. It's a five-year plan, and we've heard a lot about LIN. What Is Your View of the Future? Should students really be able to conduct studies around the world? What about policy in schools or alimony? There is much to say that 47% of loans are strong, and the Ministry of Education has been diligent in saying so, but it is worth saving the care of a small number of individuals who do not fully pay their loans for various things. However, the vast majority of the borrowers pay their loans entirely. We also need to keep in mind the course of the highly educated minister now in power who is producing people for employment, not for self - education. Madam President. As a result of increases in real - estate prices, domestic debt has nearly been reduced as a share of real estate prices. The correction of debt reduced the debt of those who had real estate. Of course, tenants received no debt, and the situation of those who are in most cases low - paying people, but not always, is getting worse. This means that inequities have increased dramatically. The proposal assumes that the Substitution Fund will be closed, for this government has held a corner in its page from the beginning. There is no comment on what should be done or how to meet people in the country, who have often been unable to look for money. There is history in the community, but there is very little suggestions for improving the country. It should be proposed to a new built-up plan next year, but nothing is under way to take it to the end, the government has passed the parish plans, first by cutting them off, then by adding a little money and after battle, but the last task was to place several more members of the body in order to prepare and decide what task should be done in one of the ideals for all standard procedures. It may be that some members of the council decide which assignment is the most reasonable. What about the proposals of the service group that dealt with domestic flights so that people in the scattered areas can actually benefit from the flight as public transportation? For example, speaking of practicality and saving, maintenance of the airport at Nessút, should be on-line, since all too often patients are to be brought back and forth in the car and in the medical flight from the Garifuna, which creates risks, inconveniences, and high costs. The demand for services, management, and maintenance of transport workers is greatly affected by the rapid growth of tourists. Government policy is here said to be to link communities and Iceland to the outside world by strengthening the structure and competitiveness of individual areas and countries throughout the country to maintain a comparable quality of life. The schedule presented here as well as the process of transportation that has been proposed in no way, and we cannot help but disagree with that. The Capitol doesn't make it, i.e. that low taxes cause a more economic growth, and people in general have more between their hands. It's been given to us to see and hear the recent failures, for example, money taxes were minimal, something around 10%, and still men made money in the tax industry. You see, Madam President, the rich always fit their own. This is one of the very ingredients of this program, the discrepancies we believe are in the tax political and other things that are presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u68	Madam President. It won't be much longer for us senators and me to end up just five minutes in the second pass. But from the highest. The minister of finance is now honoring us again with his presence are some things that I would have been interested in coming to, but I did not have time for a previous talk. I'll start with what I'm happy to see in this program, such as that now I'm going to resume payment on a future pension commitment guaranteed by the government. I agree, and I think it's very important that we start out as soon as possible, even though it may not be very high, but it will remember as much as 5 billion a year if we keep it out in the next ten years or so, it would greatly reduce the impact that would otherwise come on the state sometime in the next decade and, of course, greatly delay the need for additional help. I'm also happy about it, and I want to make it my goal to be consistent because of my harsh criticism of the best plans. A minister made two last springs, that if I have read correctly, the change has now taken place that the direct contractions of the bills are no longer expected as a proportion of land production. It is expected to last some time. There is a delightful change of direction from previous programmes that expected to draw the primary expenditures directly together by a 1561.2% of GDP, but here we are talking about, if I have read it correctly, about the same proportion. On the other side, there is concern that the elements are weakened rather than those on the other side of this time, and the actual product of the State remains unchanged, i.e. it is trying to close the budget over the next five years with 1% share compared to gross domestic product. For all the uncertainty about the future, of course, there is not much table for it. I think people have to face it. What I think is the weakness of this plan, and I'd love to hear the highest. Secretary of finance only speaks of it, is that it rests entirely on the predicted basis that this will be a permanent economy for the next five years. The extent to which there is an increase in the number of cases or, after an incident, some increase in investments in the final part of the time is primarily linked to what is occurring with sustained interest and, of course, some in terms of time spans that arise because of less interest costs as debt decreases. It's a pleasure, of course. But this tells us that the plan is very sensitive to these reasons and that it can be very small. If something beats a background rock, this could quickly move down to the zero or even down below it. Because, and I know that that's where we're at the highest. A minister disagrees that the constant, surrie of the state's income base or public has been somewhat weak. If it hadn't been done, the result would have been very elegant with the automatic multibubbles, heading for much change in the years to come, which, of course, would have been necessary, for when should be handsome left on the state funds if not when we have advanced into a positive economy? In the sixth, eighth, or tenth year of continuous economic growth, there must be good reason to try to adjust the problem in such a way as to produce good - looking change on a government fund, which is usually needed to work properly with the economy. I have to agree with what's been mentioned here when people look at the investment plans. First, the ratio is all too low and will not go up to drive 1.3%, or even though it will be 1.5% of GDP. That's really not enough. It's one of the greatest weaknesses of this plan. It does not work when it comes to investments in infrastructure, road accounts, and so forth, and in the years ahead it will have to increase, and that will be the case with the government of that time, of course. I also particularly miss two projects I had hoped to be on the list. I'm pleased with what there is; a building for the Council, the Founding of the Year Magnús, and, of course, the execution of the Land Hospital, but I don't leave why the hospital in Akureyri is left behind. I'm also sorry that the Icelandic people have not grown up by 2020 to do so by the end of the year. starting with the construction of a Museum of Nature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u69	A respectable president. I'm going to review some of the points presented in the final talk each time. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon here at the end, but in general, I'd like to say that I've done pretty well in the past. on financial and financial policies until five years of age. It was to be expected that the income line and its grounds would be discussed, as well as that on the side of the remuneration would be brought to the attention of some categories of subjects that were viewed as needing further financial support, depending on other priorities. I'm going to say it quite frankly again, as I mentioned in my first speech today that after passing over this for quite a long time and after introducing this program to stewards and working in the government with her in front of us and giving her a presentation, I have a very deep understanding that the members of the general body need a little time to understand the changes in their presentation. It's the GFS standard, it's the topic field, and it's to control exactly what each subject is, and what the salary and the prices are, what's the basis - this is a lot to digest at once. And I would also like to think that there's a lot of pressure on the board to take up a plan for the next five years in the individual language fields. There's been a contribution to the Ministry. A second talk may be used to thank all those involved. Never have so many people in the government, I'd like to find a document like this, but behind this work, there's a lot of cross-cutting cooperation between all members of the Ministry. I never had any expectations that this would be completed during the first experiment, but since we've started this tour, we have a basis for building on and in the future, I have hoped that this document will continue to develop and develop in order to become a very clear presentation of what is expected in all these areas of activity in the coming years. Then there is one thing that we can also continue to wonder about, that is, how much we should break it up into a unique subject field. A brief time later, however, on the specific points that have been mentioned during the discussion and that will no doubt be considered on a committee. I'm happy to hear the agreement on subsidies in the LS. In the discussion, you may also find that caring for subsidies in the LS is not an easy time for us in the overall economy. This is just shown in the financial balance, so making a five billion deposit in the LS is not a less efficient product. Rather, we simply need to have the resources needed to live up to their payments, but this is absolutely necessary. Premiums. It is to be expected that humans will manage where we should set them, but, yes, the line is slightly flater than we have had in previous schedules, since the income stocks are only stronger and we have only seen a changed situation, e.g. because of the stability progress that we now have in the house. There is strength in it for us to arrange for them to pay off debts, thereby creating a little more space on the spending side. Regarding the weaknesses of the plan, if you can talk about them, I believe, first of all, we have nothing more to build on than the economic forecasts. There's nothing else to be held responsible for. There are such things as warnings in the plan on a number of things that could make us worse, but maybe I'd like to say that these are uncertainty about the future, they're quite a few of them. The development of events in Iceland can have a profound impact on how to develop, what happens in the course of history, how to achieve the next phase. And then, after the next two stages, how we will be seen, i.e. whether there's going to be a charge for the land and how we'll manage to convince people that this is a stable environment. In other words, the external influence on gang development can have a powerful effect. Second of all. The development of oil prices can have a powerful impact on such branches as both tourism. Today, we have very favorable external circumstances, which has helped to restrain inflation and to maintain low costs for the country. If these two factors at one time developed in a worse way, oil rose considerably, and walked, it would be like a double slap in this very growing branch and all those who are now doing much to prepare for continued growth. I think there might be a rearflash for this. The same is true of developments in our business countries. It is not quite certain when to publish more in the euro, what is to be expected in the euro. It has not been very successful to swallow it under persistent growth. In the euro and in other cases, the fields are very low. It's a question of how it's gonna play. Will riches in our main business countries remain strong or not? These are just some of the uncertainty factors that I think will come up with and can affect progress. So it is quite true in itself that the income line is largely dependent on forecasting. However, for the rest and the question of whether it is sufficient during the period of forecasts or in this planned period, I have to point out that the equation is extremely strong for Icelanders today and has been in the past few years, extremely strong. He's probably one of the greatest in all of Europe. What meets these very strong equations are unusually high interest costs for countries such as ours. We don't have even more reasonable heads, so I'm just letting myself say it like I experience it, considering the economic situation in general. As a result, we do not have many other options but to work down our debt and thereby reduce interest costs because of the idea of getting even more originals, e.g. ... bytravelingmore income, etc., I think it's simply unrealistic. I think it's unrealistic to build on such a long-term plan that we can have 10, 15, 20% more originals than we plan for the council. The basic equation is the most known. In my case today, I have stated that the public investment is low. We have explained in this program why it is. There is little room for it to be greatly increased now. However, during the times when economic growth is as powerful as it is seen, the value of investment is growing greatly. A collection of extrainvestment space, if you can put it that way, is enormous during the programme period. So because people pick up special investment projects that should have been in the program, I want to draw attention to the fact that there is quite a lot of room in the plan because of uncertainty. Unforeseen joints are considerable and, if we are not affected by any of these events, they become like a reserve for the period to be arranged after incidents if no other unexpected events arise. Then individual projects or even other aspects of the government of the day may be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u70	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change of various laws because of a proposal to set up a new institution for the products of forestry. The Environmental and Resource Ministry has recently lost several aspects of cohesion films or increased the cooperation of the institutions of the Ministry. In June 2015, a group of workers began working together to study all government forestry work to one institution, i.e. State forestry and national products in forestry; Western jungles, forestry in Western lands, northern forests, regions, and eastern forests, as well as the oversight of Heklu Forests. In September last, the service team, which produced results, worked out an analysis of the combined national Forest Work on the Benefits and Challenges Following. The team had close contacts with Iceland's National Society of Forest Owners and Forest Service. The results of the group were that the integration of national components and the development of the state in one institution was desirable and created an opportunity for the development and development of forestry in the country. Deforestation could contribute to the promotion of employment and a further development of the land's habitats. The aim is to make forestry management more efficient, to increase professional ability and perspective. A new deforestation agency has headquarters in the River Valley region and runs work stations in all parts of the country. In this way, the government's work centres and its components can be merged in forestry. The Agency's main projects would include planning and counselling in the development of forests, management and use, the management of national forests, such as Hallorm Park and Vagl Forests, forestry research, education and introductions. I'm going to explain how it was done to work with the bill's contract with the goal of creating as far as the greatest agreement on its contents. Work on the bill began with the work of the task force assigned to inspect together the government's forestry work to a single institution. In the processing process, it included Meeting with national parts managers and Forest Managers who informed their staff of continuing work as they planned. There was then a consultation with the head and human resources department for financial and economic decisions related to the rights and responsibilities of the government's Forest and national projects. A wood management manager leads to the preparatory work of the unit and formed a operating group with the national body managers, four government growers and representatives of the Environment and Resource Ministry. Strategy for the work of a new organisation is being carried out by the active participation of government forestry workers and national products in forestry. I will now explain the main changes in the bill. Change in Forest Service Act, No. 3/1955, there are two kinds. On the one hand, there is the need for changes in the development of the new institution, the Forest, to take over all the work of the State's woodland, and a change is about to take place, however, that one of the forestry projects is going to have to run part of the forest in accord with the law of No. 95/2006. In addition, there are provisional regulations in the bill that focus on the rights and responsibilities of the workers of the state. Changes in Foresting Treaty, No. 95/2006, to the head of the contractors, in particular. National deforestation is a legal project, and their funds are determined on a certain basis. The minister appoints a board of directors for every task in the administration of the project, agreeing to its work and financial plans. The management board is responsible for the management of the manager responsible for the daily operation. Together with national projects and government forestry, new institutions will take over the role of the governments. No longer will the government be appointed over the projects, but instead it is proposed that new arrangements be implemented for consultation with wood farms and the forest - owner national groups be added to the law. The national projects will no longer be referred to in the law, but the Agency is expected to carry out the work done before by the national part of the work. In addition, comparable regulations are proposed on the rights and responsibilities of the national sector and are proposed to change the forestry law, No. 3/1955. Changes in other laws are only the names for which a new institution, the Forest, is proposed to take on projects that were once on the hands of the State. Finally, the bill suggests a law on an Annex to the Law No. 3/1955, through forestry, No. 22/1966, fall where forestry projects are covered in the law on national deforestation projects. A respectable president. I've traced the main subject of this bill and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u71	A respectable president. I'm glad we have here a bill for a legal adjustment of various laws due to the unity of government-based forestry work in a new institution. I believe this is an important step to create a basis for continuing forestry development and paced towards more targeted work and policy development in this area that requires and coordinated work on the protection and sustainable land use. As noted in the comments to the bill, it is important to make forestry management more efficient and consistent and to increase professional ability and perspective and to strengthen the structure. Deforestation is now in place, so deforestation projects are constantly expanding when it comes to increasing the value of the already built up resources, along with building up a forest resources for diverse purposes, including carbon binding. It is therefore important to improve professional ability and create a possibility for more specialised workers with this union in a new institution. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether or not there is a greater reexamination of the woodforestation and other land uses. I like the overall picture of the change in law, but as we know, forestry legislation is in its years and it is important to have the overall study so that deforestation can continue progressively as far as this is concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt appreciation for those words. At the same time, I'd like to use this opportunity to express gratitude to her as she led the Project Management Board regarding this unity. Has a what? A senator performed a unique task in that there were no objections to this unity. I think it's almost unique.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u73	I'm going to give my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u74	I'm sorry. It is true that increased forestry is of great value. Deforestation involves a great deal of wealth, a variety of wealth. As important as carbon binding is, we feel that we want to take good care of climate. Hv. One senator asked if it was just after this to begin a more comprehensive view of the legal environment. I can assure you what. A senator and a body of Congress that is already being developed in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u75	A respectable president. I appreciate your answer. Minister. As mentioned earlier, I believe that the change here can lead to the success of the cohesion of the existing institutions, and it is very good to hear that more work is already being started on the legal process. I want them to focus on looking at common or integrated targets in many areas, such as forestry, agriculture, and nature protection, so that all services in the protection and sustainable land use have a common vision and that the legal environment works better today. They're now suggesting to unite forestry on the grounds of law enforcement, and I know the forest farmers are wondering how they will arrive and cooperate with their representatives in terms of deforestation. As a minister entered earlier, the bill assumes that, instead of a law on the order of national sectoral projects, there will be a basis for consultation with forest farmers for the emphasis and implementation of the relevant parts of the country and the Bank for decision criteria for reimbursement of approved costs. There will be no further agreements on the National Institute of Forest Owners. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if it is considered good to review this work specifically on the environment and transport committee as to what should be discussed with the forest farmers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u76	A respectable president. As mentioned in my first talk, we feel very important in creating a better environment for the forest resources. Whether we're talking about growing a multisession forest or a belt, trusting in a built - up area, or promoting a job, forestry is very important in this regard. I'd like to point out that forests or trees don't go away, so cooperation with forest farmers is obviously extremely important. If there's anything, my mind and the Ministry are also there to further that work. On the contrary, we will not limit or restrict the ability of wood farmers. I feel that one of the most important factors in this has been that this work has been designed to improve the development and development of economic life far and wide throughout the country. Wooderers have done much good work. That cooperation we want to develop as far as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u77	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for this initiative and wish it and my good associates in the Environment and Resource Ministry congratulations on this matter. This unity has long been my concern, and it may have been that as an old trustee of state funds, I am interested in the fact that the funds of the state are new as best of all, and so I thought that for a long time it would be in all quarters of the two workplaces or two stations that were actually dealing with similar or similar tasks. Now, I'm not wasting the work of the fine men and women who have worked for the deforestation projects, as it were, or the administrations over them, but this step does not only bring better use of funds by controlling and all control in one hand, but it will be the stroke of this article much greater than it once was, a professional strike force. Humans can, after this union, better care for their assignments, expand them, be especially qualified, so that no matter where they look, this matter is positive. I also want to be aware that with this change, I feel that I will also be careful to consider the agreements already being taken on deforestation in the various parts of the country because it was originally contracts that had fallen into the possibility that farmers in traditional farming could decommission it if that were appropriate and accept tasks in this field instead. However, this was not to be thought of, at least not as I have understood the case, that in the law, a forest was practiced by some vacation or high-eff-life. Therefore, I would like to strongly encourage this change in attitude that people will pay ever more attention to the role that turns to law - abiding ones. In other respects, I've understood to agree with this project, and cooperation has been at best, like my fine co-worker. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alices daughter is expecting and showing, and she is to be honored for it, and she surprises no one who knows she was doing well. But I urge you to pay attention to the national parts, as stated here in notes, by permission of the president: In the same way, the bill assumes that, instead of a law on the command of national activities, there will be an agreement with forest farmers on the focus and conduct of the national part of the project...-- (in 1996) This is exactly what I was talking about earlier, that people go back to the time when the first deals were made. I believe that there is an urgent need for all the contracts currently in force to become overcrowded with the idea that money for what goes on to this project will become even more useful. The good news in this matter is, naturally, that the money that used to keep two tunes is now being controlled by increasing forestry that we all rejoice about because it has been shown since forestry and farmers began to grow forests in Iceland. I remember when I came to work in the Environmental and Resource Ministry at the time and I met the Forest Farmers then I found that a new time check, maybe not quite the same time range as the geologists know, but when I described my view that it would be an impenetrable way to grow a forest in Iceland, here it would be so cold that it would take so long, forest growers looked in front of me with understanding and said: No, it's hard to grow a forest in Iceland, it won't take so much as 100 years. [The senator's phone calls.] - I apologize for this, he doesn't even want to go out. Because I was in my time, today the natural era was revealed. We've noticed that in the crops in Iceland the first piece of gauze in 20 years, and we're getting good forests in many 20 years, which are naturally incredibly short times, and beyond that, as we all know, forestry has become both rural and urban areas and towns changing weather, as the forest of course does. So there is nothing more than positive about this matter. I hope that the committee involved will respond favorably and carefully review it quickly and carefully so that this progress can be made clear. I repeat my congratulations to the highest. Ministers and staff of the Environment and Resource Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u78	Mr. President. I'm really hoping that I turned off my phone, I see it's okay. You're right. paritaprevir Sæmundsson says that especially from the front, people did not necessarily believe in crops in Iceland, and they felt that the forest was slowly rising and moving. So it has to do with a pleasant story of our Nobel poet, which men may have heard, i.e. how slowly the trees grow. There was a guest with him on the Gihrastone, and they were discussing the rice outside and how slowly they had grown and raised and that they were a child from up there. Of course, they agreed that foresting would be hard work and patient work in Iceland under these circumstances. Nevertheless, the Nobel poet now said to his guest that when the visitor arrived, he hoped that it would become a large tree. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I just want to say very briefly about this bill that I think that, basically, this has been very successful and the work has been well prepared. I've only watched through a variety of acquaintances and contacts I have in this sector that people have increasingly agreed that this is a reasonable arrangement and have managed to work so that it is, I know, an excellent atmosphere around it. That is always praiseworthy. It is far from default that it is, and over the years, when these things have been rolled over and there have been some tensions and suspicions in the context. For example, traditionalism was prevalent in bringing the custody of national parts of the forest from the industry, or current employment and innovation services, and in this way, under the head of the Environment Ministry. Here, I suppose it's working, and so there's a lot of odds. Similarly, in one case, it has been very successful that often is the main problem of changing institutions, I do not talk about and combine them. This has been very successful with the title of the new agency, in contrast to what is sometimes when it has been almost fatally tested to combine something that has become so disagreed or disagreed about the name. I like that the united phenomenon is simply the forestry. Then third, I want to celebrate the highest. One minister said, and it is not a reason to believe that anything other than the Headquarters of the Forest Service will remain in the Shire. I am grateful that I was serving as a minister some 25 years ago in reassigning the state of New York and east of the Shire. So during the early 1991's with an unforgettable feast, I will remember as long as there was no thought left in my head what was great joy and what was fun when it was celebrated in Valask, that the forestry had come to the east. It was also a difficult task and had to resolve some differences so that the person might recover in a spirit of spirit that he eventually did so, so I think that everyone was at peace with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u79	It was good, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u80	Also, it's also a little fun to see that the national or regional projects are starting in this way under the Swamp's hat on the Shire, but the first major national part or regional project in the farmforest, the Shirewood project, was started and started in its first year, in 1990, so you are now allowing yourself to be a little more historical, and was driven a bit by the conditions that were then lived on the Shire that all sheep were cut down by riding. There was fear of significant failure in the home if there was a lack of money for three years or so and nothing else was going to disappear. Then it was recommended to place funds and energy on the start of the first major project of farmingforests, the Shire Forest project, which became a model for the national projects elsewhere, and hopefully no one will regret it. I also hope, as mentioned earlier, that this will be linked to the growth of power once again with a better national economy set in forestry. I am a wood grower, and I believe it. And if it's like all of us, it's growing up in this country, and growing crops are going to fall every year from forest to forest, apart from many other evidences. I also understand the view that it is not necessarily that all trees should be filled everywhere. Of course, it needs to be planned and planned and to respect other viewpoints that, for example, can be considered. some areas where wood forests are less at home, nature itself should be allowed to control the whole process and the journey without any human hand being involved. It takes e.g. to take good care of the ecosystems linked to the natural birch and large forests with single testing trees, etc. The quarrels that arose at the time when people planted pine trees into the remains of the birch that remained in the country are probably unnecessary today, for in itself there is a lot of land that can be treated with the crops in which you do not enter a natural bush or a forest. Of course, with all the reasons that have been used in the past for forestry, climate targets are being added to the highest level. Minister mentioned, at least it came. ... inanti-resurrection. I've waited a little since Iceland's appearance with its goals and activities and commitments in connection with the United Nations climate goals that we would see the place where men would be more concerned with the possibility of binding to forestry or after events with the recovery of wetlands that Iceland was fighting for recognition at that point and now will be a little awkward for us as a time goes by if we don't allow ourselves to use these resources. But in order not to extend the time in this discussion, I'm gonna make it work. I can only see that here is the best case on a journey that has reason to work on and succeed, whether next time it goes into effect and to legalize right now, on July 1 of this magazine. Finally, without my carefully examining it, it seems to me that it seems here will be better for the transfer of employees' rights than it has sometimes been seen before. This government has hardly ever used the same formula in that regard, and at times it was very close to the rights of employees when these things have happened. In some cases it has been the most aggressive way to which any of the structures have already been changed, united or transported or transported, i.e. to simply resign everyone. These are rights and obligations, and the development also covers the employment contracts of the national parts of the Agency so that everyone's interests should be reasonably guaranteed by it as a reference to the law on rights and duties of the employees of the state or to the legislation on the business. In this case it is not necessary that, unfortunately, it has often taken months and losses, i.e. ... tosetuptothe administration because it did not keep account of the staff's rights. That mistake has made in some cases and has caused much controversy, as it is known, but there should not be any reason for such a situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u81	Mr. President. I've often admired the move of the advance party in order to force myself out of trouble; yet, I've never seen another as lordly as before, when it came to the tremendous cooperation of the senators of the forward Party when one of them suffered the misfortune of the platform that his phone rang and ran his phone into the air, and there came a reason. 1st. That's the north side. and caught him up. It was an experience that I would not have wanted to do without, and I have to say that I have rarely seen men get out of this pit as fast as here. But this is the most pleasant of discussions, and it became even more common. for the sake of my good friend. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, to recall a party that he cannot forget 25 years ago. I'm telling you, I've been in so many cannibals. A senator who is one of the greatest rejoicings I have ever had, that I am so sorry that at the time I had not been able to share in the great rejoicing that I am not going to recall. A senator was not so thrilled at all. But since they've been together, Jón Loftsson and whatnot. Senator, I believe this has been a heart attack. Here, too, people have almost fallen weeping at one another's necks, especially those in attendance, and have congratulated one another on saving the forestry. When you run for these talks, you will find that there is a why. paritaprevir Poor Anna Sævarsdóttir, who can be said to have with her most elegant talent in the leading committee, who won this bill, sort of saved it, and then I don't want to be any less valuable than any other human being here. I've had an extremely good partnership with what. A senator on most but forestry, but I would still like to congratulate and congratulate the advance team on it and on its happiness as well as on the happiness that this great milestone brings to all. I come up here mainly as a spokesman for the United States Agri-Food Wing to state that I believe this is the best and will support it with all the hooves I've been through. But without a joke, because it's a natural moment, I believe this is a very successful step. I've always been able to see the forestry in these small parts, i.e. On the one hand, a fairly powerful Icelandic institution and since this part of the country that I have thought was in the chapters in discriminate and could not achieve the satisfaction of working in the shelter of a motherhood organization, such as the Forest of the State has, of course. I know man's best, to have exercised the authority, that there has been primarily the remedy for the use of small gas in the region. So I believe this is a very good step to the highest level. Minister is here to take as much as in so many other matters, and as I said, I will support it as possible. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir SodmundsonÞorsteinn Sæmundsson, mentioned earlier, has much greater potential for forestry than men counted here during the early days. I must confess that I was myself in that group, on my political slang wounds, who thought that there was not much to do. But I've taken knowledge and read about this and went to a meeting, apart from the fact that I've been sitting with all sorts of farm apostles on the Aggressor committees through time, and what might surprise me the most is that Iceland is in spite of its own globeship not one of the almost northlanded people. We who have visited our neighbors like Scotland and Ireland have the notion that they are forested, they are green countries, but 150 years ago they were on a level similar to Iceland's today, and they've been like this in those days. There they had cut forests, destroyed them, used for firewood in cold years, and disappeared from the forest. It took 1,900,100 years to recover and cultivate the forests we see today to yield something of great value in these lands. The same can be done in Iceland. Like everywhere else, two things are needed. It sometimes takes the government's means to help a new article to get on the move and move on, and of course it was the State's job to contribute to the development of forestry in Iceland to have the hope of becoming a professional profession. People are talking about the forest resources. The rest that you need, too, are research. It is the support humans have of science. It has to be said that, as it is, the development of the state and, in fact, various institutions associated with it, universities that have cooperated with it have done a wonderful work in this area. I think today we're in a position to see the experience, like the driving point. paritaprevir Sæmundsson and former agricultural minister mentioned that humans have begun to turn around, that they have started to create a direct value from what many of the years thought would never be a major profession. They're talking about the forest resources today. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, apart from saying entirely irreverent, that I don't tell an immortal, a story of the Nobel poet who had a deep double, even triple meaning pointed to it, as if, in fact, I thought of it. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, the chronology of forestry is far from unique. There people think and plan not just for tens of years but perhaps for centuries. Yet, the fact is that what pioneers in Iceland said has all worked out. Today, the forestry has reached the place that had been foretold, and after 40,650 years, it will have to produce considerable amounts of wealth into society. Perhaps the more important thing is the fact that in some places foresting has helped to strengthen the lay of grass. If there's someone I love more than anyone else, it's my beloved Animal fun. It is forestry, and it is a wonder of how well that article has responded. I hope that as soon as my feet have been cold for some time, it was relevant in that place, on the shores of the West, that men had the moves and the initiative to invade forestry. What matters to us when we are thinking about new jobs today in Iceland, where there is prosperity, where there's plenty of employment, is wondering what jobs you can set out that can build up around the country, trust the lays of the weak, because Iceland doesn't have much value unless it's built. Here it speaks orkrat, and they have not always been known for loving agriculture, but I say: The reason I'm prepared to support taxpayers for agriculture and the reason I've been prepared to lend my hand that the State comes to forestry is exactly this, that it will give fresh support to the weak. Something then lives if they have been supported by humans in their process. I believe that the step being taken here will be of great help because creating one institution around the forestry will help to unite the motherhood agency with these little orphans who have actually been too small to stay on, at least. Good for the future. It's much better this way. It's an idea that's been going on for a long time. I've seen my talk so beautifully that it is appropriate to recall, too, that when people in the past decade talked about this precisely, to unite the forest and the parts of the country, it was the most unique candidates who stood up, including. In these sales, and there was a strange mouth to protest. They were no better than some independents in sticking to the signs of the little ones. But as I say for now, in the second time in three days, there is a better category of living, and the forward category is still up to well, at least of these substances. Then I will say, because I am the natural man Jónas frá Hrifla, that is well; for as I have always said, and will always finish all my speeches concerning the aftereffects, though this shall be also of the forest, so shall the forward company not forget what he was formed for. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Although his campaign in the survival of the hold is now being so tragic, it was founded by Jónas frá Hrifla to form a team of peasants and workers on the grave. It's time to get to the top. Minister of the environment and all of them. Councilmen here, and especially why. 1st. That's the north side. " Know what their original purpose was in politics. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u82	A respectable president. It's a real pleasure to come up after these three thundering generals here at the General Assembly. I'd like to catch the ball where the last speaker quits and say that what is in common with the forest industry and the forward shift is that in the past it would take 100 years to make a good forest, and the forward party will probably be completely at the top - in December 100 - year anniversary. [[Up front.]] Then I can tell you what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Ophphphinson, who says here that I was coming from giving a lecture on Microfrisey, her history, and how full of history she was. That is exactly where people made their way out, so we progressive people also thought very well of seawater and down to the gravel. As far as I know, I have stood here for decades in the city to defend what Jónas frá Hrifla fought for. I would like to thank you again and again for this excellent discussion and say that I feel that I have been doing very well at work. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon to have moved the headquarters east. I made it a perfect requirement when I and we at the Ministry were hiring a new forestry director that the bus would have to be placed there so that at the moment. A senator has a common view there. Forest development has been accomplished, and it may not have to be quite 100 years to become evident, for when it is currently known through the East, it is the person of the east that does not need to be an expert to see what district deforestation has been accomplished. Wherever you look, that success is possible. I came there last summer, and then I actually went a little bit over, but each class uses certain words when people insist on showing me the problem or the failure. I didn't know why I had to show such things to me, but the word for the first piece of gauze is breaking down. But this is how you learn slowly. I think the word that fell by him. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's right word, that's a stroke. That's what we need to get back into the game. That's what we need to get back into the forestry. Wait a minute. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is just listening because I'm going to join him in the West Coast, and I'm just learning from the Westerns. I'm going to lend him a fine article on the forestry of his beloved Animal and Cinderelly, and how they started there. I'm learning from it, but they even talked. ... aboutTruefor ranching. That word has not been ambiguous, but it was pronounced by the Westerners. I think it's a little exciting to be working on, that we're working on farming. Forests are a species of farms, but farming also means something else, has a double meaning like what the poet said, that humans engage in another type at the same time. Then I can tell you that the National Association of Sheep is very interested in our cooperation, and it was only during the last week that their government met in the Ministry to consider how we could share in the task of deforestation on sheep farms as well. It tells me that people are beginning to think differently about forestry. I have strong faith that we can achieve this, that we can trust a dwelling in the settlements of the country, whether we call them inhabited or otherwise, but also accept the warning that, of course, we must consider organization. I'm one of those people who didn't do enough of it and planted myself for a good view, but we learn from everything. - But once again, I want to thank you very much for this fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u83	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in the law of Lake Earth, No. 60/2007. On May 1, 2007, there was a law on a lakeland park. provisional regulations in the law require that the laws on the administration of the national park should be reviewed no later than January 1, 2013, in cooperation with state and rural society. The administrative arrangement was new in the management of national peace- informed areas based on the provision of a controlled system with active control of rural and community organizations. Due to the size of the park, about 14% of the land's area, and the largest in Western Europe, its management was inevitablely a major project with diverse interests and viewpoints. In January 2013, the current Environment and Resource Minister appointed a team to review the national administration programme and to make adjustments if any aspects of the provision of the temporary law need to be met. The service group worked on the assessment in broad consultations and for open meetings within the national territory of their work. The task force submitted a report to the minister of August 2013 that was also presented to all the eight rural governments involved in the National Park. The bill of what I now recommend is based on the suggestions of the group, as well as on the comments of the National Relations Research Centre, is presented in the Agency's report on the management and administration of the National Park from August 2013. In addition, the bill suggests other changes in the law in the light of the park's operation from the law's taking effect. In particular, these changes are due to the interaction of the laws, regulations and management or protection programmes of the Lakejörbjörður Park. In addition, there are new laws on allowing forces on various events, performances and activities within the national park, as well as other legal changes. I will now account for the changes proposed to the rule of the park. A team on review of the European Commission arrangement of the Sea of Israel examined key parties' attitudes toward national administration by asking for their position on certain matters. Questions asked to the relevant party were: 1st How do you feel that you have managed by the control of a Lake Earth park? 2. Would you like to contribute to the change to the current system governing a Lakeland park? 3. Other indication for the work group regarding the management arrangements for Lake Earth's national parks. To ensure public access, the same questions were placed on the environment and resource websites where the public had the opportunity to submit answers. According to the evidence, the national park's controlled administration was basically a good one, a close partnership between state and rural society and stakeholders had a great advantage in making decisions that have been made. The task force concluded that there are aspects to be better explained, especially with regard to engineering, authority boundaries and the responsibility of the individual members of the administration system. In connection with the authority boundaries of a seven - man government that oversees the operation of the park, the managers, national parks and regional levels. Therefore, in view of this and in the contexts of the National Reexamination, it is requested in the bill to make a clearer reference to the law's Commission of the National Park. His role must be in caring for the day - to - day administration of the government, as well as his responsibility for the national park to act in accordance with law and government regulations, responsibility for the nation's interests, and the management of personnel. The role of national parks must continue to care for the daily management, staff and management of the affected sector in consultation with the Commission. In addition, the bill states that one of the role-relevant national parks must be carried out by the management and implementation programmes of the Member States in consultation with the Commission, a new law. It is continuing to ensure that the selected administrative programme will remain but at the same time that there will be a clear understanding that financial and staff responsibility will ultimately lie with the Commission. Other changes in control processes include It should be noted that another representative of the Management Board's Environment and Resource Minister should have knowledge of national projects. There is a natural requirement for knowledge of national parks, but nothing in the national park's governance ensures that such knowledge exists within them. However, I would like to point out that knowledge is not merely a knowledge of national parks but also a knowledge of organizational matters, travel services, nature protection, and other matters related to daily living and working in the park. In order for that knowledge to become useful to the national park, it must be considered to be a subject of professional knowledge in the national park. I am now making other changes in the bill that does not involve the regulation of the park. The suggestions for changing laws other than II. sections are presented following the experience that has been generated since 2007, including 2007. changes are subject to the interaction between Regulation and Water Earth's Protection Programme. The Princes' programme is, in effect, in the place of regulations that the government is most responsible for. In these last few years, experience has shown that there is a greater need to consider the activities, activities and events that depend on the Agency's permit. Therefore, there is a full need to explain the requirements for payment on events, implementation, and activities within the national park. The bill adds a new set of permission measures for organized events and projects requiring the facilities, human resources, or the handling of the instruments of the park. In addition, services intended to run a national park should be agreed on and must be conditioned for the function to be kept in mind by the national protection objective. As the number of tourists increases, tourism is increasing in the park. The individual nature of the area attracts tourists to the pressures and quality that are limited. Clearly, then, protection is needed in the light of the national protection objectives. It will be a guide and a normal step to take when applying for permission. Other changes in the bill result from the changes I've been tracking here in brief. A respectable president. I've traced the main ingredient of this bill and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u84	Mr. President. I'm glad we're going through a review of the law and an update on it. It's important to review these laws from 2007 because this is a living document in which we're dealing with 14% of the country and I encourage the Minister to have roads and problems with strengthening the park as much as possible because there's great opportunities. Two. is the goal of Number 4 to strengthen the environment and to address the park's management organization as the manager and all management will be located in the park's home area. I'm suggesting that the minister will try to make sure that the manager will be located in the park's home area, if we can say so, in any of the four or five areas in which the park will be divided by strengthening the habitats and occupations of the area. I think that might make a lot of money because I think it's necessary to be part of the environment you're directing. Eight. reports that the daily manager will be in the hands of the Commission. It is now focused on the position of the manager in the area he is conducting on a day - to - day basis, as in the preceding case, where we were considering the new establishment, the Forest Farmer. Like what? paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask went to his talk, making it clear that it is located in the province. We're just supposed to put in eight. that the minister of the Commission's ship for five years at the same time should be located in the park's home area or whatever we would say.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u85	A respectable president. I can say those words for a moment. Senator. I'll look at it, and I'll be glad to refer it to the Committee as well. It's not just Steingrímur J. Sigfússon who said this, during the review of the Forest industry, we all agreed to that and set this firm about the Headquarters of the Forest. But I'm sure it's happening, and I agree with every word the senator made here. I think it is much better for the manager to be at home, and it will probably consider the next time the Council becomes the manager. The home area of the Lakeland nation is very wide and covers 14% of the country as we have mentioned so that it can also create a measure of agitation whether a manager should sit on the north, east, or south of the National Park.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u86	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answer that the park's manager should be located in his home area. I don't think we can make it a condition, however, that he lives in the North, East or South. On the other hand, we may be able to set the standard for him to live in the park's home area, and I am glad that the minister will apply himself to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u87	A respectable president. I received a tip that the management of Lake Bay National Park can already decide where the manager sits. There is no need to change the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u88	Mr. President. I'm going to add a few words to this case, which I don't make any specific material comments, mainly because I'm glad that the results of the group of work that continues in the bill is actually that it doesn't interfere in the main terms of control or organization of aquaculture park, which was laid up in its own time. Then, first of all, I refer to the selected arrangement by means of the active arrival of local people, rural and social organizations, and the balance that was built up in that arrangement from the start, perhaps only after that. The origin of a Lakeloaf park, his organization, was a major turning point in these issues in Iceland. Not only was this the largest national park that had ever been established but it was founded on a vast, diverse area of land, either the public, the country after the events at that time, not in all cases, or the private property of land. Similarly, the park is different from other national parks in that there are a wide range of protection levels, ranging from universal natural treasure, which had existed even before and across the area of traditional uses, whether in bait, hunting, or other forms of hunting. Third, the park's establishment was a milestone in the administration or arrangement. They have the background that should become shy about reviewing now. My conviction is that without this arrangement, Lake Earth would simply not have existed, would have at least became much smaller than in his time. I was so fortunate to be serving in a special preparatory committee for the creation of a Lakejörður national park for a two - and - three - year period of the Environment Ministership of the Siv Friðleifsdóttir's Daughter, and therefore I know this well as a member of the committee of this committee. In her sat with me even. Yeah. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's son, now disfellowshipped, would be able to give a pleasant talk here, even reviewing the travel stories of the National Committee. It also had an ex-whipped. paritaprevir Sveinsdóttir Sveinsdottir and other good people. We went everywhere and visited the whole area, not just what was supposed to be thinking about, lake cold itself and its borders, but also the surrounding areas. This, along with other factors, led us to try to extend the boundaries of the park. You can relate that e.g. The visit of the Hope Committee actually changed the outlook of those who had doubts, of course, should be in a Lake Earth park, as well as the surrounding area, for example. Torfi baloney. The same thing really happened when we, the committee and our experts and our counselors came to the South Sea End. Then everyone agreed on what looked like a natural wonder and had not done before, in my case, that, of course, we wanted to see the western edge of the Lake Earth reach that place. It was quite clear that it was a great balance to achieve a good atmosphere toward the local people, both landowners as well as rural and other local authorities. The theme was not always very good on the first round, and at first meetings with the locals. There was a lot of suspicion. Naturalists and national parks or the peaceful regions that were present, some of them unrecognizable, took on the word to become a national park, meaning that everything would be shut and locked, nothing to be done, etc. They needed much discussion, extensive instruction, and enlightenment on how to do this, including some of them. in a foreign model and in order to gain confidence that this would be the case, for example, to take in a vast scoop of news from the park, which was part of the pride of farmers, had been used from ancient times as bait, or for hunting or other such things, that a park could be formed without becoming a stumbling block. The locals had doubts, and this gradually led us to the committee that the only way to handle this matter, reach an agreement, and get a good atmosphere in it would be that the locals themselves would be very bossy, strong in the park administration and would have much to say about how things were done in their territory. Thus, work was gradually born in the controlled, controlled water - free park. I repeat, it is my opinion that without this, the park would not have been created in the form it is today. As a result, and because I think it has given a lot of weight, that there has been no particular problem or insurmountable conflict because of this arrangement, it is very important to maintain it. Of course, there could be acidification in the exchange if someone started to back out of it in some way and you could call it at least certain panels on the promises made at the outset that these things would last forever. I think it's very important and successful that it's being brought up here. Regarding the location of the manager or the possible management center of the park, it is well discussed in this context. That's one of the things we talked about, of course. Should we decide that at some particular location, at one of the regional headquarterss, the Waterland Park headquarters will be in some particular location? It would have at least It was not easy to leave because it had already become fragile. A team in achieving all of this was that the whole area would be as high as it is likely to have seemed to be an overlap if it had been determined right from the start that in one center the national park would be the center, as normal as the view from a different point of view that these activities, occupations, and occupations belong to the region. I think the situation is changed today. I'd bet you men were much less sensitive to this now than they could have been then. One fine arrangement could indeed be when it comes to future conferences in these matters simply saying that the manager's work center was somewhere in the area at one of the National Care Centres. It could be by choice. Not every situation would have to be the same. This could depend on the circumstances and wishes of the manager. Then I think everyone in themselves could remember it well. Finally, I feel that there's no way I can talk about Lakehjörður Park to include in this context the plans for the Middleland park. Is it not the time to move on in the next phase that has taken on an intense and positive outlook regarding attitudes and support? As a result of this, we have evidence from polls that the majority will have become that the whole of the nation's population is subject to such an arrangement. I think it's time to do it now. In so doing, some other forms of vicious debate could be settled that could be in the lake of mobilization into the central highland itself. May I then inform you - it is not often that I wholeheartedly agree with the highest degree. Of course, finance minister, yes, of course - I loved to hear him say yesterday from this speaker that he couldn't imagine a high-voltage line across the middle of the country. Neither can I. I don't want to see a high-voltage line or a built-up road over the middle of the highland, the heart of the highlands. I think it's the best safe place in one unified organization that is now a powerful lakeland park on a global scale. It would be even more impressive if all the central areas of Iceland were to become one huge national park with four glaciers and, in fact, all that can be found on earth that is connected with fire, earth's heat, and incredible other things, one of the world's northern deserts, etc. Then let me say to the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister who, unfortunately, has been telling us that it does not intend to take part in politics behind the next election that it is a beautiful sonaric song at the highest level. Environment and resource secretary to make a firm struggle to implement plans for the central national park. I think the highest. A minister could not build a more magnificent monument than that if it could become a reality. Of course, it would remember very much if the highest. The Environment Minister and the Ministry would take the lead or one-armed to the battle with those who want to win and/or have suggested this. There is no need to get water across the stream. There is an opinion on this committee I well know a proposal for exactly this fundamental decision, which, of course, would be natural to begin by making a decision in its place and agreeing to make a decision, just as was done in its time with a lakeland nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u89	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 55/2003, waste management and law No. 52/1989 of the measures for environmental contamination caused by the single use container for drinking products. The bill was employed in cooperation with the Office of the Ministry, as well as in a review process. The primary objective of the bill is to ensure that waste management laws are compatible with the commitments established by the EEA Convention, i.e. The implementation of the EEA types and correction of the specifications for the implementation of EU types. This is the first Directive 2012/19/EU, on electronic and electronic waste, which includes: The requirement not to dispose of untreated electronic waste. Second, the EU Regulation is No. 660/2014, about the transport of waste, has the primary objective of increasing the monitoring of its transport. Third, the 2013/727 decision-making is a format for information sharing waste policy, which is responsible for their reporting. Therefore, it is suggested that rural society be required to provide information on publishing and significant reviews to regional waste management programmes. Fourth, the bill is intended to prepare the implementation of EU Regulation No. 1257/2013, on recycling of ships aimed at recording the EEA contract over the next few months. There are legal adjustments which include the definition of the recycling of ships and the implementation of jobs due to this activity as well as the expected further implementation of the Minister's Regulation. Fifthly, recent observations by the EFTA Institute of Monitoring have given reason to correct waste management laws due to the 2008/98/EC Framework Directive on waste. Because of the comment, it is suggested that the definition of the seller and server be added and the license required for these persons, as well as the addition of the regulations for waste management. Another primary objective of the bill is to provide necessary changes in waste areas. First of all, the bill suggests that the EEA is authorized to commit administrative fines due to violations of waste management laws. This is in accordance with state reexamination recommendations, and it is important that the penalties due to violations of the law be applied. The 2013 Chemistry protocols were taken into account in its implementation of administrative guilt. Second of all, 19th pars are suggested. The law, on the official release of the informed operators, will be adjusted to allow the directive to be compatible with competitive laws. Third, it is suggested that the charges of the law to the Commission of Environment and Resources will be addressed in accordance with other laws in the Ministry case. It is assumed that the public is permitted to sue government decisions that concern its rights and obligations, i.e. So-called administrative decisions, but the legal authority of the current law is far more extensive. Fourth, legal requirements are proposed. 52/1989 of the measures for environmental contamination caused by the single use container for drinking products will be changed to allow the pressures on aluminium. Late losses have declined, and this situation has already begun in Recycling Corp. to make money from aluminium, i.e. sales of aluminium camps, are less than the company's expenses in the management of the aluminium. Therefore, it is considered proper to suggest that the charge be taken by an aluminium camp, but the amount of money will be set in its proper place. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u90	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in the laws on the security of electricians, consumers and electricians. The main objective of the bill is to implement a 2014/35/EU directive, on the compliance of Member States' legislation on the post-marketing use of electrons within certain tensions and Directive 2014/30/ESB, on the compliance of EU Member States' legislation on electromagnetic integration. In addition, the bill suggests a slight adjustment of the law in the light of experience and reverses the obligation of electrical contractors to control their own actions and, on the other hand, to the definition of the holy line areas. The aim of these changes is to strengthen the legal framework of existing activities. The bill was formed in cooperation with the Clinic of Manning, as well as the reviews of stakeholders as well as others by an open process of reporting. For the induction of the requested directives, the bill includes a proposal for a specific frame which will provide the basis for the sentence of regulations to fully introduce these types. The bill thus discusses the safety of electric prisoners used within certain tensions, i.e. 50◯1,000 dvt AC and 753/4,1,500 warm DC. The purpose is to ensure that commercial electrons meet certain basic requirements designed to protect human health and security, pets and possessions, as well as to ensure the activities of the inner market. The defined conformance assessment is expected to be used to ensure basic requirements and is obliged to attach CE markings to all of the individual electrons, as well as to the published by a so-called agreement declaration. The bill, on the other hand, deals with devices and solid devices that can cause electromagnetic disturbances or be affected by such disturbances. This is also the purpose of ensuring the activities of the inner market by providing adequate electromagnetic coordination. The directive therefore defines the basic requirements that the equipment should meet. A validated agreement evaluation should be used to ensure harmonisation of equipment based on basic requirements and to confirm CE markings, as well as the declaration of the agreement. The requested directives include recycling of previous directives. However, the bill does not include extensive changes in the provision of the market in this country from the past, but there are some factors that are suggested by the Agency for the application of new resources, i.e. the use of government fines instead of traditional penalties. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-03-107.u91	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a fire control law. The objective of this bill is to implement a 2014/34/EU directive, on the coordination of Member States' legislation on the use and protection systems intended for potential explosive air use. This includes measures relating to the marketing of products affecting burn safety, i.e. A product used in potentially explosive air, with the rules aimed at limiting the risk to its use. The bill is put together in cooperation with the Committee of Human Fortress, as well as the reviews of stakeholders as well as others by open reporting procedures. The bill includes a proposal for a specific code of fire protection laws which will provide the basis for the regulation of regulations to fully implement the application procedure. The bill assumes that the basic requirements to meet are defined according to the level of explosives. A defined agreement evaluation should be used to ensure compliance with these basic requirements, to attach CE markings on the product, and specific signal indicating an apoptosis to confirm, as well as to publish a written agreement declaration. The 2014/34/EU directive replaces the older directive, which was submitted at its time by Regulation No. 77/1996, on equipment and protection systems for use in explosive sites supported by the current legislation, No. 60/1979, State Electric Affairs. Where there are rules aimed at limiting the risk, it is reasonable for the directive to collect its improvements in burn protection laws rather than electrical security laws, according to law No. 146/1996, on the safety of electric electricians, consumers and electrics, the systems and the protection systems involved are not all in power equipment. Twenty-fiveth. The current burn prevention laws are the burning safety regulations of the product and are proposed to change the requirements in line with the developments established by legislation in this field over the past few years. The bill does not include major changes in national surveillance with the marketing of the parts of the device and the protection systems under the above directive, which are considered to be electronics or post-marketing regulations. However, a large portion of the equipment does not fall under the directive and therefore does not hear the law of No. 146/1996, for the safety of electrician, consumers and electricians, and for which the marketing monitoring has not been carried out on the hands of the Agency or any other organisation. Experts in this area are not available in the Agency, e.g. Based on the health requirements, the Agency has to expand the Marketing Authorisation Management Board. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest that it be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
