ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u1	Mr. President. In summer, after Congress, news came to the top. A minister would have decided to set up a committee that would be assigned to investigate the criteria for the establishment of a park within a so-called central highland line, i.e. asked him to examine the basics of forming a national park in the middle of the country. In the Committee, according to a press report from the Ministry, representatives of various recruitments, tourist attractions, the Basis, Coalition, Coalition, Environmental Association, Residents, and the Union of Iceland. What caught my attention on this matter is that there has been a proposal for a convention of national parks on the central highlands during this council and, indeed, two recent councils. I'm wondering what the highest part is. A minister goes on to or what her intention is in this matter, considering that the proposal for this has been in here and is getting very positive comments, why. A minister did not encourage this proposal to be accepted and why the highest. A minister did not establish agreement with the General and follow in the footsteps of the Minister who was at the time of the establishment of Lakehjörður Park. There, a special committee of political parties and representatives of the Ministry was appointed to ensure a parapolitic reconciliation and solidarity and understanding of that assignment. I'm wondering if it's the highest. The minister intends to shun the council in this way or whether it is thoughtless at the highest level. A minister, for such a big matter and when considering the precedents, it is reasonable to consult with the council in some way. Although there's a very positive possibility that a minister is considering these matters in his Ministry, he's at the highest level. Minister to be aware of all the discussions that have taken place at the Council on the matter. That must be the best. The minister of the campaign to initiate such cross-continent consultations, especially in the light of the precedents, so I ask the highest degree. Minister whether this is a matter of thoughtlessness and failure to reconsider this arrangement and of the highest degree. Ministers do not support the proposal before the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u2	A respectable president. I thank you for taking this matter on the program even though I have to say that I am surprised at the words brought down here because I had thought so. A senator would just be glad that I had a cross-cutting committee with countless stakeholders to define and take a closer look at what needs to be done and put it in my mind, November 15th. Then it is only natural to follow such a work that would have been analyzed and further map out the subject of developing such a large national park in Iceland that it could be placed before the General Assembly. The only thing I find to criticize is that such a committee has not started earlier, but there are things to consider in the Ministry of Environment as well as other advisers. This was a job, and we had to get out of all the many bodies that we put on the committee appointments and it's taken time, but the committee's about to start, and I think it's gonna blow. A senator should just look forward to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u3	Mr. President. I asked the highest. Minister of two questions, whether to agree with the General on this matter or to the Supreme Court. Ministers support the proposal in the third consecutive council, whether it would be advisable to give the proposal while the council operates. V.E.G. A minister chose not to answer either of these questions. I made it clear in my speech that it was a good thing for the Ministry to consider these matters. But I criticize that, in view of the fact that this matter has been discussed at the Council, the proposal has been repeated, and I do not remember the Supreme Court. A minister has participated in these discussions, so again I ask if it is not reasonable to consult with the Council on this big matter so that the counseller's will lies ahead of such a journey. Is it not reasonable to submit the proposed proposal for the establishment of a central national park? Once again, I'm asking you, "Suid at the highest. " Minister that this proposal will be taken care of here? In view of the positive reports that present the issue. I don't think it's unusual to call for an attitude at the highest level. Minister on this case and if it's the highest. A minister does not intend to have normal consultation with the Council on the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u4	A respectable president. Why do you set up a committee? You set up a committee for better information, improve your ability to make professional decisions, or make better decisions. That is why it is my attitude that more viewpoints were needed. Although this proposal was made at the General Assembly, I was not prepared to say yes or no to it until I received more information. This is a big administrative point and I wanted to take a closer look. The manager conducts this work, and of course, several parties will be consulted. I haven't ordered exactly who will be discussed, but I am going to introduce the strong will I perceive here, to be called members of the General Assembly, but before we can accept the case here at the General Assembly I believe it is absolutely necessary to have this analysis both in administrative matters and in various other stakeholders. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u5	...will win the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u6	A respectable president. We are all shocked by the proposals taken care of this week at the Summit. I'm particularly glad to hear Bjarni Benediktsson's declaration of his stand on this, but I must ask: Will financial and economic ministers do something about it? When it comes to pleas in the financial system and businesses related to them, a child must avoid the fire. During this season, we have discussed at the council a bill on bank booths, where we thought a minister was going to walk for a full length, yet a good agreement was reached to severely limit. But it is not enough for us to get along if people simply go their own way. BSRB, a government agency, has this weekend challenged the government to intervene, and that's why I am involved in a financial minister to see if he has thought to use his authority here to deliver a national government bill as a frontlet, whether he has called for the members of these parties, whether the state has any representative of the hearing, who has received some recommendation from the minister, or if he somehow intends that this will not happen, we don't stand beside and watch this happen, whatever financial and financial minister sees to take the case that all of us, in the face of the matter, so obvious and understandable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u7	A respectable president. Thus, for a short time, in the case of financial companies, it was the FESI that set the rules for proposals, and it came to the point of time when people felt that the required ground for law was in place. So in the case of financial companies, I gave the council a bill that specifically addressed proposals. Now it's the company mentioned here that is not working on the basis of a job permit as a financial enterprise. In that sense, the company operates like any other company in the country. I am open to the discussion about how we in this community would come to some conclusion as to the general way in which to make proposals such as those appropriate in this case, which are based on some success in business or so on the other hand. But I think it's extremely difficult to enter this discussion on the basis of an individual enterprise before the final conclusion has once been obtained, but I present myself at the same time ready to participate in a discussion about whether we can in some way make a clearer decision on these issues, for which no one pointed out the need to do it for the rest of the community, i.e. all the other jobs in the country. It seemed to me that it was a mistake to be subjected to criticism for bringing that bill back at the time. [[The president calls.]] That's all I have in my own mind about saying at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u8	A respectable president. I wasn't talking about the future and some committees in general. I was asking, will the secretary of finance do something about this matter, the petition at Copenhagen? Does he see himself doing what the British did, using taxation power to handle such superpays? This is not just like every other company in the country and family financial activity. It's a party that owns one of the country's key business companies and is therefore closely linked to the financial activity of the country and the reigning position of the banks on the market. The company has a unique position, although it is a fragment. I ask: Will the minister take some action to prevent this from happening, even though it is only called the officers, it is determined that this will not be done, or in some way will not be used to prevent this happening? Or are we going to be part of a town to protest and then make things happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u9	A respectable president. We're sitting at the General Assembly, at the legislature. [[Up in the hall: right.]] I'm in the same position as what happened. A senator to present a bill. He proposes that I invite men to meet me and ask them not to go out like this. In fact, I thought I had done quite well with my views last week. I didn't think my words were to be misunderstood on these subjects and I don't know what to add here or up to my office in the Ministry to read the same fistula. I didn't notice why. A senator would have no suggestion on the matter other than at the time of the meeting. I expressed a willingness to participate in a conversation about how people would live in these matters. As far as I know, no decision has been made. It doesn't even claim that I have any authority to intervene in such a case. You don't? [[Up front.]] It would be Generalis to step in, and our group here discussing how that should happen. I draw attention to it, because they think of taxation, that it is this day, that it has not always been the case, that paying from these things is a tax payment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u10	A respectable president. There was an interesting story in the Morning Press this morning that I read in the flight of the South, which is about a microsphere that goes out with sewage, that we're driving the train when it comes to filtering this microplastic. There has been a study showing that there are no restrictions here in Iceland, that our sewage facilities do not handle these tiny plastic particles, which are very damaging to the environment. For example, the report says that the largest stations run in Sweden and Finland can capture up to 99% of these particles. The largest station in Sweden escapes about 120 of you. abs, the largest one in Finland, less than 500 of you. particles, but the Rockyard station releases over 6 million particles per hour. Now I don't make the highest claim. A minister has read this report, but we still know this problem, which is a microplastic problem in the ocean, that is, in beauty products, too. It is in the European Union that microplastics or microplastics are prohibited in cosmetics. The United States has taken a step in that direction and has established legislation, and the British Parliament has taken this matter into consideration. We may not have discussed it much here, but this is a matter that the international community has to deal with, of course, because particles that go into the ocean are traveling everywhere. I think it's very serious. I know it's the highest. Minister knows about this discussion. There was a very good convention here in 2013 for microplastics and plastics in the ocean. You may have been focusing on the plastic bags and bottles and so on, but the microplastic is just as dangerous. Now I ask if a minister doesn't agree with me that if our sewage treatment stations aren't strong enough, then something needs to be done about it and if we come in any way, to whether it has to be said the law about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u11	A respectable president. I thank the senator for this fine inquiry, and just as she did, I read this article with interest this morning, early in the morning, then I went down to the Ministry and discussed it there, what would be happening in it, and that's why I'm well prepared that I'm here with a very colourful picture given to me, can show her to the senator, showing that it's broken from tirebarrows that go very far out into the ocean, which may make us a little surprise. Everything else that's going to cross the sea is over. It is true that these light plastics are being transported by ocean currents, and we are constantly becoming more and more aware of what we must look after on the plastic and all plastic usage. But I would like to tell you that what comes from rollerblades is e.g. Thus, by means of the paint and maintenance of ships and small boats, the materials that travel to the sea are three times the same. This, of course, is a matter that we must take into consideration. It was true that the senator crossed over, there have been committees about limiting plastic usage, such as a load of carriers, and the timing of how we do it, and it is to be established as a committee on further plastic uses. Of course, if this is so serious, it would probably be better to examine this report and try to learn from it. But I'll be in my second reply a little bit over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u12	A respectable president. I think it's very important that we examine further whether this is really so that our cleaning centres do not put up with these plastic particles better than this article shows. I also feel that there is another important issue about microplastics or tiny plastic balls that are wearing cosmetics. Manufacturers have, I'm not going to say that I'm going to say that I'm taking the initiative because it's obviously been pressured by consumers and environmental organizations, starting to stop using these microbubbles and even toothpaste and stuff like that. I feel that selling products that contain absolutely unnecessary particles of this kind will be forbidden, for there are many other items that can be used instead, salt, and more. Today, if consumers want to avoid this, they need to read or feel on the package that plastic particles are not being used, people are advertising them. We in Iceland may not change the world, but I feel that we could be on the lead in so many areas, and we could draw attention if we took steps like not to, e.g. Just beauty products that contain these plastic particles. It's totally unnecessary, and it's bad for the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u13	A respectable president. So I'll just carry on with this, that's a nice picture, too, including beauty products, which are more fortunate fragments of the entire body, but it's still there. Another factor that is hundreds of times the cosmetics, that is, abduction from washing machines. I'm asking us to make sure that we don't use tweezers too much, at least not wash them much if we have them, because there are very difficult particles which come with them into the sewage. They've been investigated as being dangerous. So it's the lop-eyed thing that counts. This excellent Norwegian report, we need to review it better, as I said in my previous reply. It is about these microbubbles, or microliterates, which are not just plastic, but is in irrigation water, and most of the time comes from tyres to the streets to drains. It says that more particles are involved here than in Sweden, but it's because we've assumed that we didn't have to clear as much of it from us because it's coming out into the open ocean, the big Atlantic, but we're not locked up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it's true that if we get a tip like this, we'll take good care of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u14	President. I am curious about what viewpoints were just behind the highest point. The minister of education decided that the police school would take place at the University of Akureyri. I'd like to know if it was there, for example. According to their point, the National University of Iceland had a 128-point basis of 135, and the University of Akureyri, with 116 points of 135. From a professional point of view, you wonder how a decision is actually made not to accept the school that has the best professional judgement. As a result of such decisions, I would like to know in general what professional grounds are behind them or what basis is there for not taking the school of the best professional opinion or any institution in general, whether it depends on why or whether it depends on something else that a minister may be able to inform us about. Of course, I would like to state that I have no objection to this particular study. Rather, I would like to know why this decision was made, exactly the point of view, because the school that received the best assessment by a menu committee was not chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u15	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator noted that the University of Iceland was graded on this designated menu committee, 128 points, and the University of Akureyri 116, and the University of Reykjavík received, if I recall correctly, 110 points. In other words, there is no particular difference between the scores, i.e. The point is, all three schools are clearly qualified to carry out this assignment. So it was my minister to make a decision on the case, and of course I considered the results of the committee. There I felt that all three schools were qualified for this study and apparently very well qualified. It also weighed heavily on my decision that this was a new university education and thus an opportunity to put it in school, such as the University of Akureyri, thus sponsoring the schools and promoting university studies in the country, of course, the condition that the school met all the Academy's academic requirements for such study. The conclusions made by the review board were strongly so that this was the case; it was very clear from the review. As a result, I believe that this took a big step in furthering a university degree in the country. We can see immediately that there is concern. I was tore up at a seminar that perhaps one student had to talk to the school because he went north to Akureyri was unnecessary this morning when I examined 109 applications for this study, 52 applications were from women, and 57 applications from men. Clearly, they have made a good point of applying for this study.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u16	President. I'd like to, in view of that - thank you for the excellent answer to the Supreme Court. Minister--that he doesn't think the difference is large, yet there's a considerable difference I'd say on this score. I wondered if the Minister can tell us what the difference was. Why did the University of Iceland get more points, so why? I can quite agree that it is important to promote e.g. The University of Akureyri. But the main thing for me is, why isn't the institution that gets the best estimate chosen? It sounds like there's a lot of groundwork there. But is this such a general rule in the administrations, that there is only a reference, not to be taken the best? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u17	A respectable president. Of course, it would be a matter of concern if we took all the studies that are available in university institutions in the country, and then agree with what is, for example. In Iceland's University, evaluating whether the study should be conducted in more places than the University of Iceland. There is a government policy, and I think it's totally tributary, that we want to secure and support our studies in the country. It was a unique opportunity for a new university education to put it in a university institution, an education institution in the country, the University of Akureyri, given it, and is crucial, that the school met the requirements for academic ability. In terms of the difference, I pointed out that this information is of course public. Several standards were provided for the principle. My assessment is that the difference between 116 points and 128 out of 135 points is small enough that in no way can anyone say it was a myth to make a decision and send the school north. I would like to remind you that it is always a decision and that it is the responsibility of the local minister, a minister can never hide behind the committee, advice or some kind of assessment procedure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The minister must always make that decision on his own responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u18	A respectable president. I want to talk to the highest. Secretary of the government's starving policy in infrastructure. Then I'm especially thinking about transportation. V.E.G. The prime minister informed the U.S. Senate of our last spring when we discussed a government budget that 400 billion now overflowed the cover of the state funds. But at the same time, major infrastructures in our society are breaking under pressure, especially the road system. The budget set up in May to the next five years is set aside for rigid maintenance of investments and projects and directly stated that this will take place on transport. This is a serious issue in the present situation, since the transport system is the main source of living and living things. More important, the calls we members of the Parliament have received during the past few months, and losses from local leaders, hospital officials, law enforcement, tourism, and others have increased the pressure, including the increase in tourism. ... police,reportsandmostofthe country's roads, looking for trouble. In addition to the fact that the country has in recent years raised a great need for investment and construction, public investment has fallen by 47% since collapse, the concern will have to be further increased as a national budget of transport support is announced in the next five years. And, in fact, the public investment under the plan is only 1.3% of national production, which is a surprising low percentage. [[The president calls.]] It's this starving policy that I want to talk to the highest level. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u19	A respectable president. It seems that people are being overlooked in general discussions about this budget and the position of government finance that everyone has come to agree that there is much room to add everywhere. That's a little different from what we were talking about a few years ago when we were in surgery. [[Up front.]] When we had to put down the pay of senators and other directors in the community. [[Up front.]] - I'm having a two-way conversation with what? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u20	V.E.G. Minister has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u21	That was not true a few years ago when we were cutting down. This document is highlighted by members of Parliament, who say: "There is room to add in all areas, and last week health issues were discussed. A senator speaks of transportation. I draw attention to the fact that in this document, the country's production is growing and the state's investment level remains largely unchanged as a percentage of land production, which means a large increase in government spending and in the latter part of the period, we are going from 1.3% to 1.5%. Of course, it is a challenge for one community to plan on building a new national hospital, a huge increase in pay in health, education systems, and elsewhere in public employees, paying off debts, making change, building in the educational field, and maintaining the transport system. What a challenge! In the end, we have to accept that we cannot do everything at once. We have to accept that. Therefore, I miss a deeper discussion of the policy that this government put in place, that it was seriously tried at a Senate Hall to see if they were in agreement with the policy of how we wanted to see debt developed. What we're doing here is allowing space for a 10% increase in terms of the budget period. Money that used to pay interest to the creditors of the State is now going directly into society, into the infrastructure, for good purposes. [[The president calls.]] It's a building document.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u22	A respected president. I agree, I miss a deeper discussion about the money money for the next five years than it is offered here. I want to point the top. Minister on page 6. 14 of his own national budget, which refers to the investment rate, that it is under long - term goals and will continue to decline further in time, p. 14, the highest. Minister. Of course, will is all that is needed, and internal structure is one thing not to be neglected. They can't afford to defeat their own income institutions, as they are doing, and do not gather for the years and do not invest in the interiors, for investment in the interior is, of course, what makes the future possible and lays the basis for the future growth and income of the state. Speaking of the need to maintain maintenance of infrastructure as a result of a threat, the least of which will be a pregnancy, as the offer has been made, when it is considered to the government's tax reduction policy for the benefit of the feds. [[The president calls.]] If there's anything that's expanding, it's the government's tax reduction policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u23	A respectable president. That government took 40 billion of the financial contributions while the government was still in force. A senator supported 1 year, 1 billion a year. Then came the new government, the one sitting here, that took 40 billion of the financial industry and made her tax paying by worn - out men. This year we take in a stability supply of about 20% of land production, 20% of land production, and recover all the losses the state suffered during the years that followed. That's how we set up our state funds, that's how we get real resistance. By paying off debts, we have created 20, 30 billion allows for building up. On page 18. 41 of this same schedule shows how the investment rate is rising during the schedule. And speaking of the government's revenues, the total government goes from 760 billion to over 900 billion during the planned period. So it's not the income side of the state's business that's the problem here, it's not the income gate, there's some people's unrealistic ideas in this room and more in the community about how fast they can increase their spending, completely unrealistic ideas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u24	A respectable president. I take part of the thread where it's cool. Ólína In this conversation with the highest, he was let go of the villager's Þorvarðardóttir. Financial and economic ministers, but the inquiry has made it possible to finance the transport system to the future. Of course, there is a considerable lack of transport today, and there is also a agreed budget for five years that it is actually a failure plan. It is a plan to continue neglecting these vital structures, both in recent development and in maintenance. It is such a community key that it is a great responsibility to ignore the responsibility of looking to it in a responsible way. Clearly, the current transport secretary does not intend to fight for that situation, for such a thing as the familiar direction of the Independence Party lies just ahead, which is the growing advantage of the private wealth in all aspects of society. It is a well - known method of starving society until the public calls for privacy and private input into the infrastructure. At the present time, increasing markets have not provided enough money for transport in Iceland. The tea stocks have not been fully used, and not new, but the obvious opportunity is to even raise the fuel price by reducing fuel prices, which is clearly an opportunity to add to the funding of the system. Of course, the main objective of vehicle and fuel taxation is both the income and the funding of infrastructure, as well as the important targets that must always be secondary but still inexplicable from the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Minister of Transport responsible for the development and development of transport in the country must look forward to the continuing level of revenue at the primary target for the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, the approach of the secretary of transportation and the Ministry of Transport in general in ensuring the state of green views on this subject is also thought to be built up in such a way that those who are making good use of it are running a stream of its maintenance and structure. In this way we would both be improving this income base of society and infrastructure, as well as taking care of the important environmental issues. As shown in the exchange of words. The head of the head of the financial and economic minister is now way too low for this important infrastructure in Iceland or 1.3% of the GDP that goes into road construction. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What goals and priorities are being pursued. A minister to finance the development of a transport system? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I think it is very helpful for us to discuss some of the future when it comes to these matters. But I have to refuse that claim. A senator says that this is on account of this minister and the government's driving a starving policy in government matters. This, of course, is far - fetched when we see that we are making room for more projects. The budget also shows that there will be more space in the years to come. I can only say what. A senator that it's totally absurd if she thinks I won't fight while I have the power to get more money on these things. As the senator knows, this may not be a simple answer to that question. We have a wide variety of transport systems, airports, ports and roads, traffic and security. So there are many things to do when we look at these things. Many come to the funding of the transport system; countries, rural areas, private people, and users themselves. General transport and management policies, including funding, are set up in a transport programme designed for the council and we know that this is now under committee discussion. I will only discuss this matter by means of transport funding, which are the responsibility of the state as defined by the law. We have, as the senator knows, harbors that are part of a community. Besides, we also have public societies, such as Istavia, who is in charge of the Cheflavour Airport operation. He's fully funded by charges on users. This is expected to continue, although individual forces in the pay will change towards more transparency and better contact at expense. The international flight, however, is the responsibility of the State. There is a service agreement with Istavia on operating, maintenance, and construction of the country's airports in accordance with a transport plan. Thus, the cost of spending is less than one third of the cost of operating at airports. Other than that, it is funded from a government fund by contracts of service. The road system, construction, maintenance, and service have so far been financed by marketd income stocks and fueling the taxes with a so - called cash fee. In recent years, the proportion of fuel taxes spent on road cutoffs has been reduced. That has been so for many years. But, in part, donations have come from a government fund. Of course, with new laws on the state's economy, income stocks are decommissioned, and this is a new way to finance the transport system. As a result of the implementation of public financial legislation, as well as the development of energy exchanges in transport now under the Ministry of finance, this arrangement is being revised by transport currency. I hope to see those suggestions now in the autumn months. We could even discuss them to some extent in leading the future election. In recent years, transport donations have greatly decreased, even though during the last two years, donations have increased slightly. There has been an increase in GDP. However, there is no unlimited, obvious need to set priorities. The focus on government matters is on health, education, and well - being. It is easy to see that under current circumstances enough money can be added to the construction of the road system in the way we would like to see and at the speed we would like to see at the high traffic that we now know on the highway system. Therefore, I think we need to look to see if there are a greater number of ways we can achieve the goal of getting to the place we think best. Among the things I think I would like to do is look for cooperation with the pension fund and other investors for extraordinary projects. Such arrangements can be mutually beneficial. The country receives new and safer means of transportation and capitalists, i.e. Pension funds, secure long-term growth of their money. We know all of this well from the activities and construction of the Whale Land March, and even though we have not gone much further in this regard, we have succeeded. We look closely at Norway and watch what is going on there, as such cooperation has been very successful. I think we can learn from other nations in this regard and should examine it further. More than that, it's just as far as it's concerned. The structure and management of transport workers is an enormously important and extensive project that affects the population and industry. It is important that we look at how we can plan things for the future in relation to the challenges we now face. It cannot be arranged in such a way that in some way the duties of the State and the great responsibilities of the State are being reduced, but it is far more likely to say: The task that we now face is very important and has become increasingly rational and reasonable in considering whether we can look for sheep with more means than we have used to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u26	A respectable president. I want to get involved in this discussion. Of course, it is clear to all that road transport is not going to remain the source of the pressures that rapidly growing tourism can bring on them by major road erosions and increased risk of accidents. The number of deaths on the road to the road is increasing from three to nine between 2014-2015, and the roads are clear. It's all looking one way. On the other hand, I have the feeling that the funding may not be the problem when it comes to the question of maintaining transportation and building in general. As we have seen in the discussions on the budget of the state, 400 billion are overrun on the state budget. It seems to be a question of will, not a lack of money. [[The president calls.]] That's what worries me deeply, the priorities of this government and its unwillingness to invest in the interior. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. Like many others, a leader is concerned about the future process of transportation. It is clear that when a minister contributes to this transport program at the time, she says that this is a plan that she trusted to live up to. The government budget has now been approved with a far - reaching budget of billions. Therefore, the minister's question must be whether she can support a national budget that is not apocalyptic to the transport program or whether it assumes that the work on a transport committee is aimed at cutting it down to meet a national budget. It would also have been wise to take some money on fuel when it is clear that global oil prices are as low as they are now while getting money from the box. Then, of course, you have to ask: " How does work on the international flights, and where it is mentioned, a minister can instruct us more about this, suggesting that the price of international flights be lowered? [[The president calls.]] The last example is that of an adult and two children from Eelsúnsar to Reykjavík and back to 76 C.E. A k., which, in fact, doesn't fit any direction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u28	A respectable president. Just a quick comment because I know that many people feel that income stores are basically a good idea. It turns out that many in the government feel that it is a bad idea about problems that may arise there. I find it interesting to think about the road system and its funding in this regard because there is a certain tendency for people to think: we use some oil sales or something like that to facilitate transportation. This will forget, for we must look forward to a great deal of changes in the way transportation is working in the future, and it is in fact as good as it should be. This means that the income stocks used to finance the pricing system would change dramatically if they were markets. I wanted to mention this because it's even. for the reasons I like that income stocks are no longer markets to finance this system, for it will make big changes in the future, hopefully, and fortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u29	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and members of the council who have participated in the discussion. I'd like to, because of the highest. A minister has a very short time to respond here at the end to ask her two questions. On the one hand, it is what it thinks should be the primary objective of financing the transport system. It has been stated that there have been various ways, both by direct contributions from the financial fund and by the markets that we know about the discussion, which has been in connection with financial programmes and a change in view of government management. In contrast, we lose a relationship between how we collect expenses and how we employ them, i.e. The environmental issues. I wanted to hear a little about the minister with that viewpoint, because it's important from her point of view. Then, as an agent in the night. The European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee, which is now in the final meters for elections to complete the work programme, etc., I would like to correct a question that was presented in the case of a decision. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who is involved in the challenges we face regarding the transport program. V.E.G. A minister has talked about the government budget and that it is the best and an enormously good plan for the future, then offered his own proposal for a transport plan, where more money and the highest is expected. A minister specifically spoke about it when she recommended a transport plan that this was a plan that she trusted to be on because, of course, she was highly critical of the fact that these were too low numbers. Now, I ask: If we were going to be sharp senators who were in good shape with the executives, are we going to cut this transport strategy down in accordance with a national budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u30	V.E.G. President. I was standing here speaking for a transport program, which was actually put ahead of a national financial programme and is worse than a transport program. Nevertheless, I am highly criticized for running a major hunger policy in transportation, all of that. This is not how I view the transport plans and the figures that show there's a point and a stick to see it in numbers for each year's financial programme because there's room within the years. I told the council that I would like to contribute a plan directly to the financial program. Clearly, there was a lot of optimism on my part, for a certain point of direction is the policy plan. And that must also be so that there can be a response to an increase within the years. That is why it is so important that the transport program contains goals that can be used for the financial resources to attend. I mean, about the other show as big as yours. A senator mentions, and I find it very important, we sort out a link between the behavior, maybe we can put it down, and then the funds that flow into the transport system when we take off the fuel charges. In fact, I find it shocking how much of it has gone into the Kingdom Fund that was to be used in the transportation system. To me it is quite clear that at work on the forward financial deportation of the transport system, it is entirely different from taking into account environmental interests, both in my opinion that it is necessary and reasonable based on global views and, as it were in this country. Another thing is, my opinion is out of the question. I don't think there is ever a time when money is being planned on the transportation system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u31	A respectable president. Clearly, the discussion of transport is interconnected with the climate discussion. It has even been held when we look at changes in lifestyle and consumption patterns, etc. that will be our main means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions through changes in transport practices and travel practices. Since I'm an ex-communicator and city councilman in Reykjavík, I happen to know there about a document made at least twice if not more often at the hands of the capital, a travel survey, is focused on us seeing the evolution of people's movements, i.e. how much people go in the bus, how much wheels they ride, how much they go and how much they use a private car. Because they are then talking to the government's administrations at any given time about system structure, about how much we need to improve in terms of public transportation or special highways for bicycles, to strengthen transport networks for those who choose to walk, etc. The capital area is the transport system in Iceland that is most of the trouble. There, a secretary of transportation is able to take advantage of such information that the capital area has endeavored to maintain the ability to evaluate the development of this part of daily life in Iceland. We have a number of years in which we have been increasing emphasis on public transportation throughout the country. We've been adding to the bus, and we know that there's been a considerable rise in the use of a bus across the country. We also know that there has been a considerable increase in the fact that people take advantage of streets even between local cores, they live in one urban home, and they work in others, and they make good use of their streets to get to the other side. But we don't have the numbers. We don't have the numbers exactly how people do this and how they want to do it. The same goes for bus and bicycles. We can see that people who ride bicycles all year long are growing dramatically. We've got dolled bicycles in the wind and we've got baths in the middle of winter. These are important changes and important changes in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, one of our biggest projects. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it does not count as proper and warrant for making all of the country's tourism surveys. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for speaking this matter. I agree with a leader that travel polls play an important role in their ability to give a particular picture of how it's right to develop a transport system and help us invest properly. For such systems to be organized with practicality and overall benefits, it is necessary to gather information about the start and endpoints of those using the transport system and how. This is especially true of urban development, but it can also be important in many parts of the country so that the transport system can be organized as a whole. Travel has been fraught with the government for over a decade, and the road has done so, usually in cooperation with others. Most of them only reach the capital area, such as the ocean. A senator mentioned, but a few also deal with other parts of the country and with a local core. Then there have been special travel surveys in the capital area. They have, like, a bang. A senator mentioned, be used to make decisions. Within the last two years, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been participating in a thorough study of school and work application areas in cooperation with the Office, Organization, the Union of Civil Society in the capital area, and the Viaplan Advisory Corporation, which has been responsible for the investigation. Have been a source of strength from the research fund of Vega. A study of tourism within the work and school application area in the capital area is completed, also in the Middle East. Such a strategy is now being developed on the West. Then there will be a comparable study of Akureyri and Húsavík's work and school attendances soon to take place. Such assessments are planned for all national work and school application areas to identify their targets, including how people travel on a daily basis and how long or so they are ready to drive, ride a bicycle, or ride along a bus, we can tell or after the events of other types of buses, or go to school or work. The use of transport has also changed dramatically over the past few years, and especially in recent losses due to the growth of tourists. The change in lifestyle and technological development is strongly likely to have and are leading to an even greater impact on travel practices. In view of this, I have considered whether there is no need for regular research on travel in both the capital area and other parts of the country. We know that in many parts of the world, research is being done regularly on where people are coming from and where they are going within transportation networks, especially road workers. This is more detailed information than we have been collecting, but, of course, research is highly costly. In my opinion, before making a decision to do such national research, we need to consider how to obtain information like this in the most efficient way. I understand that in our neighboring countries, we've been looking to further exploit the trend of technology and information systems. Of course, in this regard there is a need for a careful approach to the earth because of personal protection. The bottom line, perhaps a brief answer to a question. The senator is that I believe travel polls are very important in evaluating it and considering how to develop things in the long term. I think it is very important to also consider interaction between those who drive their own cars and those who go other ways. I think it's important, not only in the capital area, but it's with a little more initiative than elsewhere, but not least on the roads of the country, and we realize what kind of traffic there is to play, because we're also just watching what kind of traffic is on the road and road roads in the country. I agree with that. A senator said that such tests need to be done. Now that we have understood, especially as a result of this inquiry, we are reviewing this field as if I have tried to do in this answer, and we have concluded that such whole research is right.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u33	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, and it can be said that the purpose is achieved by the inquiry, for it was my goal simply by the inquiry to encourage the minister to the praise of this subject. I believe that the purpose of it has fully paid off when the minister's careful understanding is made evident in her good answer. It is as important to map public customs or tourism to recognize what might be called public tourism, i.e. In what way would people want to see the system developing, because the system is natural in a constant view. We should especially listen to young people's expectations about how infrastructure and transportation systems should develop because we are simply competing for habitats with countries around us. We see that moving outside is not something that grows in young people when they have weighed the benefits and failings of living in Iceland. That means that we have our transportation system below one another. Of course, we have our birth - holiday system, our school, our loans, our housing system, a lot of other things that young people look to when comparing benefits and possibilities. But one of the characteristics of so much everyday life, and I think we all know that we've been living longer or shorter times abroad, is the possibility of getting around places without being dependent on a private car, i.e. can make relatively easy use of public transportation, confident that it is a good, solid, safe system to move to. There I think we must be careful not to follow the boats of our neighboring nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u34	V.E.G. President. I think it's safe to say that the young generation that now grows up sees itself as the centre of the world, if we just say so. I don't think she'll dare, our young man, to go where she wants to look for adventures and opportunities. Of course, we need to realize that in Iceland, when we all plan our affairs, we want our young people here. I'm actually thinking that we really want it to go abroad and come back, that's what we want. We want them to come home and we'll continue to develop our fine country and our community. I agree with that. A senator that I think it would be informative to appreciate more fully the expectations of the generations. I could believe that there are some differences between generations in how people view the transportation system and what they want to see in use. I also expect that in some parts of the country there is a considerable difference compared to the capital area or a larger urban core. I don't have a proper sense of what it's like in real life. You may have some view that in this area there are other viewpoints, but it would be interesting to ask. Of course, if you want to engage in major research, you need to ask that question as much as possible. Especially is it exciting to ask how people like things.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u35	V.E.G. President. During this discussion, I would like to have a conversation with the highest level. Minister of the Interior Precinct on the Gufudal Squadron. As many are aware, improvement in Vestafjörður Road No. 60 of the Gufudals regiments have been in a knot for as long as many years. The patience of many people, if not of all people, including on the south side of the West because of these challenges, it is impossible to wonder, since the matter has been going on too many years. It is safe to say that the affected road, especially through the Odinian neck and Hotneck, is extremely dangerous and inhibitory to those who have to go, there are fast - and narrow - slopes that can be dangerous, especially in sharks and heavy diapers. It has been so that this way, including weight limits, has been placed in this way. Because of a severe blow to the road, the road is very unstable and dissuades from cars, and unfortunately it is not the case. These matters are being resolved, and much work has taken place that I know not only the local Ministry but also the Environment Ministry. If they have the highest. Ministers who have done so thank you for that great work. Even so, the situation today is distressing to those who live among them. ... southoftheWestland. Those living there and those doing business in the area need transportation. People need to attend various services to the capital or elsewhere, where there is only much service in the capital area. In addition, companies have to send valuable cargo south to move abroad. There is a rapidly growing work structure in southern Western Europe, and we can include it. Name the salmon fire. From there, for example. A very valuable cargo south almost every day. It is our responsibility. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers here to support this work ethic and look for ways to get started on transport improvements in this way through the Westland Road. In order to be reasonable in this matter, though, I want to stress that there is a lot of work and that there are solutions within both of these advisers that I mentioned earlier. In my conversations with the locals, an idea has been discussed. She's the same one I'm asking about in the inquiry that we're speaking in this way by permission of the president: It would be considered to switch roads into a Gufldalian regiment so that the road force that is content with the invitation immediately, i.e. Innuendo of Stealfjörður and Deep-Deafjörður? So here I am wondering if this is the way I could go. If this were done, an earlier neck would be eliminated. When the outcome took place in many years of controversy, the accident would be out, hoping that it could be done as soon as possible. I'd like to hear a word of the highest order. The Minister of the Interior Minister on this idea I raised here in my inquiry and reiterate that I know that the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister is working hard as well as the Environment Minister to find a solution for these important transport improvements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's request for this action in the Gufudal Corps. In recent years, the road has produced an environmental assessment for West Coast 60 about the last section of the southern West. One of the factors that have been considered is a road line that runs through Chets Forest. The road had been requested at the Organizational Institute at the end of 2014 for a review of a new design designed for this section with a much lower environmental impact than the previous one. The Organization agreed to grant a request for a prior decision to repeat and allowed the way through Chef Forest to be included in the new Western environmental assessment of Smokehrepp along with other options. The project on the Gufldal forces between the Bjarnians and the Calesness has since been in a new environmental assessment process and is scheduled for this work and a process ends in the autumn or early winter. No permit to be applied to the company based on the previous assessment report. A new process of assessment began last year, based on new criteria, especially the line of roads through the bush and forested areas that have often been taught in the Forest. If this is the case, then there is a reason why the work can be offered either part of the way or all the work. Part of the work cannot be rounded up and sent out by earlier environmental assessments. However, if and at the end of the environmental impact assessment and the implementation of the rural government, the work can be replaced. V.E.G. President. I want to say what I think. I think it's very important to complete this project on the west side of the West. I think the preparations now have been excellent, and I hope that we will soon see a country in these vital transport improvements on the West.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u37	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's daughter for bringing this inquiry. It may not be possible for a one-minute talk to discuss the issues of this construction, so long a story she has, but I am here showing that it is still one-on-one and the interest of members of Congress, local government, and local residents in the area to further this road. That's why I welcome the highest words. Minister of state she dropped. Whether the new environmental assessment is available and when it is available is of great importance to us, since we are entering another winter in which we look in the winter and experience hardships, all in good time. A senator traced it earlier. But my main concern in the platform is simply to reflect that pressure is still high and that there is solid solid solidarity to further this issue. Whether it is possible to divide it into one or two tender invitations, we should not be much more discouraged when it comes to making a decision about this barrier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, I'm so sorry to film this case. I don't doubt the will of the highest, either. Minister of the Interior to resolve the matter. I think there's a perfectly parapolitic convergence that this endless task force can't walk any longer. The locals don't deserve it. They have waited for years and decades for safe lowland roads to contact the ringway. It must no longer be drawn. This idea of offering out the precipitous Undergrounds and Deeplands... I think it's very thoughtful and I'd like to recommend... that there's going to be a serious inspection. But when the case, which was put back in the beginning with a new environmental assessment, which we concluded in hopefully September or early October, and regarding the dispute over Chef Forest, is also very important that if there are further barriers to passing through a Chef Forest, people go through a so-called, cross the Fishland and go in from there to Bjarnán. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The point must be solved. [[The president calls.]] It can't go on like this anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u39	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of the Interior for her answers and why. paritaprevir Haraldur, son of Benediktsson, and why. Þorvarðardóttir For their introduction in the discussion, an antiquated dispute is taken up by Kehronph, a parapolitian agreement on these matters. All of us agree that there is a need to speed things up as possible because this controversy that has lasted for many years, too many years, has gone into over - time, and people are waiting for reforms. It's not possible. But we heard it in the highest words. Minister of the state that hopefully there will be some results in this process. Then I certainly hope that we will find a solution to the situation and that we will have to have an invitation to the project as soon as possible. I'd like to end up saying that, of course, it was a lot to talk about in the campaign before the 2013 General election. There the locals met in the West and discussed the importance of improved transportation, talking about the inability to do so. Institution of getting valuable fishing cars from the West, and even for trucks, to place valuables and goods at stores where the road was difficult on the edge. There was one good woman standing at a meeting and saying, by permission of the president: ▪ This controversy over this road has become too long. I'm afraid nothing will be done until serious accidents happen to people. I feel that human life is less important to me than some rice in a forest. These roads are extremely dangerous. This fine woman's words are often in my mind when I go west, which I usually do because of family ties, and I want to make the most of it. Minister of state who is working full and with the highest degree. The environmental minister of these matters, that we all work together as a group, as we have so far made up for this urgent matter and solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u40	V.E.G. President. There is no doubt that it is long time to get the bottom of this matter. It is important in all respects that there is so much agreement that the matter ends. I think we need to wait for the conclusion to come to take the next step. It is important that we take care of the process and make sure that everything is done by a hundred percent so that it smells good. I allow me to feel so optimistic that I believe that we are seeing the end of this. I hope it will be confirmed later in the fall. I'd also like to use this opportunity to mention that this will be a completely different transport policy when we finally get rid of this first generation of highway systems in the area. Even if there are some things left, we're going to an animal tunnel next, let's not forget it, we've still had considerable success in improving the west route. I think that is what we can expect for as long as we drive to Isafafar as we do for Akureyri, which is a considerable change from what we knew before.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u41	A respectable president. Not long ago, at the last district change, Reykjavík was divided up and is the only member of the country that has been divided into two districts. I don't think that in itself was a good idea. Perhaps it is unrealistic that we can change that view in view of the situation today. That's what it does, for example. Like the West Village and the Obscurial, we're on the move, and then new neighborhoods like the Canal are divided into two. I think it is reasonable to say that the average smoker does not have much feeling about what members of the council are doing for him, but as we know it, he is divided into the north and south of Reykjavík. The translators of the Soviet Union are members of the entire city and country, as is expected of all members of the council. What I've been wondering, because I don't feel that it's a little debate about Reykjavík's affairs in the process of elections and in general. The general body is whether this transition will make these issues even less important. Take transportation, for example. The interests of people vary somewhat, depending on whether they live in the upper city, the east side, or the west side. Then I'm referring to people living in the western city who may have a similar experience when it comes to transportation than we who live in the upper city and drive, e.g. in work, which many thousands or tens of thousands do every day, then has a unique experience, which is discussed very little, e.g. ... inconsistency. Of course, there are other issues, health issues, and all for the public service related directly to the city of Reykjavík, especially in the interests of smoke. My experience and my opinion are that we don't really talk much and really talk too little. Now, I'm not talking about that before the elections, we're just talking about issues that turn towards our environment, no matter where we are, but I think it's obvious that we should put more focus, so I drop, a respectable president, on these matters, and I'm wondering about it here at the highest level. The Minister of the Interior, would it be more reasonable to divide the city to the east and west than to the north and south? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question. I think it's a point of view that we need to look into. I agree with that. Senator, I think it would be unwise not to intend to split up Reykjavík, as was done with these changes. Why was Reykjavík not kept in one piece? Now we can see that the Southwestern district is expanding very much, but size limits were the basis for the district's magnitude to be what it is. That is exactly what it takes to consider how a voter divisions can serve the work all about, that, of course, members of the council represent their voters. Although the members of the city of Reykjavík, the members of the Council of Reykjavík, are, of course, members of the whole country, it is important to make sure that they have the impression that the people of Reykjavík are in that position. I'm about to get started and answer that question. As mentioned above, this has been done in this way since 2000, which is based on legal requirements No. 77/199, of the changed ballot. This arrangement was basically in accordance with the main proposal of a committee that had been involved in the preparation of the case. First, these elections were tested by the 2003 General elections and all the General elections, but also by other elections followed by the vote of the General election, e.g. In the election. In 1st. 7. the Treaty of elections at the General Assembly reports that when it has been announced to the General election, the European Commission shall set the limits of decision in Reykjavík based on national records five weeks before the election day. The bound was determined by the fact that the voters in each district are behind each of the seats, including the equation seats, being about the same number. Care should be taken to ensure that, where possible, the optimalness of the problem should be maintained. The law does not show how much you can remember the number of voters in each city in the city of Reykjavík, but the report is in accordance with the fact that it is not to be done more than 2◯3%. Although the government of the land does not have a free choice in the way of the city of Reykjavík when it will be replaced by the above requirements of the law, it states that Reykjavík should switch from west to east to two districts, the Southern District, and the northern districts. Thus, it is not possible to split Reykjavík into two districts and to draw the line from the north to the south. As explained in a paper with the bill that became a U.S. election law, this set included a variation from the Commission proposals that were fundamental to the change in the terms of the ideals, which was assumed to be the division of Reykjavíkurburg into the western and Eastern districts. For reasons like this, the report states: ▪ When this order is considered to provide a better cross section of the city's inhabitants with regard to age distribution, deportation, the services provided in each individual examples. In addition, the city's main traffic system on the Grand Way and the Westland roads should be used to pull the boundaries of the individual districts, including the development of new ones and the future development of the city. There is no question that this trend has changed. It hasn't been specifically explored. On the other hand, it is possible for the city of Reykjavík to be divided technically into the West and East, so that the voters in each one would be about equal to the general will. For example, if a line was to be drawn along a Rhine Way and entered the Lesbálosa, according to information from the National Book of Iceland, more than 64,000 people will land on the west side of the line but more than 59,000 on the east. I'd like to end up saying so, and I'd like to express my opinion that I think we must always look to the purpose of all of this. Do we reach the goals that we feel are best if we divide the situation, as is done there, or are we going somewhere else? To me, it would have to be a matter of opinion each time. We know in Reykjavík that people are moving between elections. It is a very peculiar situation in a district such as Reykjavík that it is unclear whether a person becomes a member of a northern or a southern district. This includes, in a sense, that the traditional ballot exchange does not seem to live in the same way in these suggestions or these ideas and is in other terms where I think it would be very strange if the voter was brought to the right of elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer I thought was informative. V.E.G. In connection with this, a minister pondered a number of matters. I was aware that we could not change this except by changing the law. Indeed, I was also aware of the decision to vote in the fall that we would not be able to complete that assignment. But I wanted to open up this discussion. Ever since I did, I've had a very strong reaction. People have felt very logical to change this as I am suggesting, to the east/west, for the reasons I mentioned. V.E.G. A minister reviews that technically this is not a problem if the council's will is to do so. I hope we'll talk about it in this election whether it's wise to do these things. I'm not going down the road because I think it's something that's connected not only to the interests of us, but to everyone's country, important that it be good in Reykjavík. I'd like to have more discussion about that. That's a lot of stuff, too. In our case, urban affairs are often linked. All I know about my work in the past is that they don't get tired of taking up a discussion with them in terms of the General election, especially in the regional districts, and I feel that it's more important in the southwestern district than in Reykjavík. Looks like somebody like that to me. has become much more open and determined to travel in that district than in Reykjavík. I think one of the reasons is that, like the highest. A minister points to, even this is sometimes done right before the election. Of course, there are not many individuals, but it may show the strangeness of the exchange. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-29-141.u44	V.E.G. President. I think it is very important for all of Reykjavík's members to start a better discussion of transport in the capital area. We have seen for a very long time that there is a slightly different view in the capital. The State has responsibilities in its capital in transportation. We have institutions here, and we need to know that we have a lot of transport investments here. I don't think it's possible to look at things in such a way that they are always put in touch with each other, that the importance of public transportation is reduced. It must be possible to work together. There are different viewpoints according to the rest of the city. Those in the upper city need to be able to get work, often in the middle zone. Then we can also discuss that the center of the capital has, of course, been moving. When we begin to examine the central center of the capital area, the southwest district is a heavy one. Take Reykjavík and adjacent rural areas, and then we see that the center is moving into Kopavog. There's a lot of changes, and I think we need to look into this. With the ballot orders, beyond what we're talking about. A senator has been discussing here for this inquiry, I believe that in other parts of the country there are other views. I myself know it's a former senator in the Northeast district that we have a huge national ultimatum. It is also a challenge for the representatives of the country to pass through these enormous districts and meet with voters. I think it is only natural that at regular intervals, we are discussing whether we have the ideal order that we want or not to make some adjustments.
