ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u1	By letter, dated October 18, 2016, the president has requested this, according to the 8th stanzas of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following report by Presidential Review: Vest Presurveiled Ohf. The operation is in control.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u2	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer than a Senate conference may be needed to complete a discussion on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u3	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize various criteria for the budget for 2017. This bill suggests a change to a number of laws that almost all of us would like to include specific criteria behind the bill for funding in 2017. The details of the bill are of many ways and both impact on the income and the pay side of the budget. I will now discuss some details of the most important things. First, child reforms and interest improvements, and I'm gonna start with the child-replacement system. Here, however, a 3% increase in children's reference height and 12.5% increase in income targets for implementation during the pressures of public pay in 2017 is proposed. We're looking at both the prices and the rewards of the budget bill. Based on these criteria, children's expenses will be the same as expected in the budget adopted last August, i.e. 10.7 billion bucks. In terms of the growth reform system, there is an extension of the provisional regulations on the change in interest of growth reforms laid down at the end of 2010. These rules were to be applied for two years but have been extended year by year. If these calculation rules are not extended now, older rules will be taken from next year to next year, resulting in the distribution of Kingdom Funds in the form of growth reforms in more families, i.e. families that don't get better today. At the same time, improved families with maximal improvement will be reduced, i.e. Low income and moneyless families. This provision, in effect, is intended to ensure that the growth of interest to those who are income and possessions, and it is therefore suggested that this provision for temporary development be extended. This is in view of the fact that a global review of government housing is still being done in various areas, such as growth reforms and rent - repair systems. The property savings and the first apartment are second resources and social services. For various reasons and among these, it is suggested that the calculation of growth reforms will be extended one more year. Thus, they will be the same in 2017 as they have been during the current year, with the exception of a 12.5% increase in their holding limits. On the basis of the recommendations here used, expenses for interest gain are estimated to be 6.1 billion. In 2017, which is the same amount of money as shown in the budget. Then I'm going to step back to the price of a quarter dollar's fees. The bill contains suggestions for a 2.2% increase in the so-called dollar bills in accordance with the financial guardians of the budget, as well as a 2.5% of their specific elevations, 4.7% will be all of this. This excessive increase is a factor in reducing the effects of induction during the past few months. This is a general interest in fuel costs, oil tax, a regular and special mile tax, automobile tax, alcohol and tobacco tax, and carbon tax from fuel. This increase is expected to result in a sum of 3.2 billion dollars. every year including the side effects on sumy tax. Thirdly, I'd like to go over here to review the laws on the local payment of public pay. This is merely a correction of an error that led to a 4. 1 1. the law on the payment of public pay was unsatisfactory. The initial concept of the Economic and Business Committee was to drop 4 mg. 1 1. The Act on Qualification Treaty took the motion of a change in local law. For correction of the above mentioned, 4 mg is suggested. 1 1. the legislation on the standards of public reimbursement will be adopted unchanged in the law of 4 mg. 1 1. the law on the value tax will be removed as originally planned. Fourth, it is the limit of the value taxpayer's obligations to sales of electronically provided services. The Act on payback taxes requires that those selling taxable goods or services for 1 billion. K. or less than every 12 months after the start of the operation, there is no obligation to be respected for extra taxation. Last spring, the General agreed to the change in the provision that the above limits increase on January 1, 2017, from 1 billion. K. 2 million. K. In addition, as the spending limit of the budget under the law will increase from the same time by 1 billion. K. In order to maintain harmony, the boundaries of the law, which are applicable for sales of electronically provided services, are suggested to follow the standards of merit taxation from January 1, 2017. This is to be in harmony, to be careful to maintain harmony between this service and the other. Fifth, I'd like to go over the value of extra taxation in favor of electrical, hydrogen and linking automobiles that have been found in the law. Here it is suggested that temporary authorization be made to eliminate the value tax to a certain extent at the import and taxable sale of electricity, hydrogen, or related automobile vehicles be extended by one year. The original purpose was to be fulfilled in 2013, but since then the time period has been extended by one year. This has been done to further strengthen the competitiveness of the commercial vehicles used by traditional fuel and diesel - powered vehicles, with the aim of promoting and streamlining transport energy exchange. In the provisional arrangement there are certain sums of merit tax that are authorized by the customs manager at the tax paid by the concerned automobiles. The budget is 25.5% of 6 million. K. In the case of electric and hydrogen vehicles, the taxpayer went for 4 million. K. roll in case of a satellite vehicle. On January 1, 2015, the general level of the worthy tax dropped from 25.5% to 24% and is suggested that the budget be adjusted accordingly. Sixth, I'd like to discuss an increase in the host tax. The bill suggests three-fold reduction of the budget of the host tax, thus increasing from one hundred k. of 300 K. for each of the stock markets sold inconsistencies from September 1st, 2017. The budget of August was that this change took place at the beginning of 2017 but in view of the short time now in policy, it was appropriate to delay the takeoff to September 1, mainly to take into account those affected. The effects including the side effects on sumy taxes are estimated to be about 300 million. K. In 2017, the year was 1.2 billion. in 2018. 7th: The bill contains changes that have to do with payment because of the financial cost. These are changes in the ratios of monitoring costs and the various minimum and fixed fees set up and collected by the SEC under the legislation on the payment of the cost of official financial monitoring. These changes reflect a targeted monitoring fee of 2,161.8 billion. "K., less than 2.2 billion." Total expenditure is expected to be 2,25.8 billion. K. and other income of 64 billion. K. It is also suggested to correct a reference in the law to the relevant paragraphs, as well as to suggest a change in the order of paragraphs and cross-references in the law due to the validation of other laws, which say the law on home loans to consumers on April 1, 2017. Eighth, this is about the payment of expenses at the charge of a credit agent's debt. It is suggested that the loan to the credit agent be over 0.03%, exactly 0.03201%. The budget is intended to cover the costs of the Agency's management in 2017, but the law states that management spending or loss of the activities of an agent's agent should be taken into account in determining the amount of pay for the next calendar year. The innuendo income of the cost is estimated to be 1,024 million. K. in 2017. Bank of the elderly is also on the bill. It suggests a 4.7% increase in budgets of the elderly, in line with the financial guardianship of the budget for 2017, as well as a 2.5% increase. According to this, the fee will be 10,956 k. each currency at the pressures of the public pay in 2017 on income of 2016. Then there is the cost of nurses and the cost of home participation. It is assumed that there will be a temporary improvement in the law on the affairs of the elderly. Is it to prevent the increase in the cost of domestic activities in nursing homes and nursing homes from being removed from the spouse's income? It is also suggested that temporary VIIs be extended. As a result, money must be protected from the elderly's management fund to cover the cost of nursing care for the elderly in 2017. Then it's time to share the disability markets with social security and pension funds. The bill suggests an extension of temporary provisions to help prevent the interactions between the social security disability and the temporaryity of pensions next year. A contribution to the Congregation and to the Christian Fund is here on the 12th floor. Then the bill suggests that the commitment of the state funds in 2017 to the National Church, as agreed by the Icelandic State and the National Church, will rise by 113.4 million. K. of budget for 2016. The promotion includes a total of 21 million. K. legislative contributions to Talgis, Hallgrim, Hólarian Church, and the Court of Judges in Reykjavík, which is not part of the above agreement. At the same time, the contribution of the State Fund to the Christian Fund is expected to increase by 1.9 million. K. in 2017. The cost of fixed charges is expected to increase from 898 k. per month according to current law at 920k. Before 2017 The law's contribution to the parishes of the Church and other religions usually changes according to an estimated change in the average taxation product of individuals 16 years of age and older, as well as an increasing number of individuals. However, today, as in the 2016 budget, with a change in parish fees laws, it is assumed that a budget will be fixed for the application fees. This will be due to greenhouse gas emissions. It is expected that the amount of emissions would be reduced due to the reduction of the ton of related emissions from 1,043 k. of 968 k. meets the change in the average price of emissions in the European Economic Area as it is during the year that ends on July 31 of the previous year. This change is expected to have a negligible impact on the income of the state funds. The workout fee is intended to cover the costs of treatment - stratified waste in the apheresis station, its transport from collection station to reception stations, or reassign centres. This will include waste disposal and disposal, as appropriate. The cost of recycling depends on the cost of waste disposal. Guards who fall under the law are divided into financial independent categories and shall take each category only to meet its costs. Calculating costs flow into Calculator Fund, which handles the management of recycling costs and its provision. This bill suggests changes in processing costs for single-use carrier bags, oil products, organic solvents, paints, lead acid generators, products in photographic industry, cycled and electronic devices. Now it is time for the demolition of equipment fees and for a change in the law of the treasure. Iceland's community, which is a free society, has decided to record a general social fee, which will then account for at least one. Partly instead of the cost of equipment. Thus, there is no longer any basis for the State to care for the collection and strain of the pay. It is suggested that the budget be removed from January 1, 2017. However, since the Treaty is expected to take place in 2017, it is expected that the law will continue its value in the terms and pressures of 2017, due to the 2016 income year, as well as the remuneration of the older year. Since agricultural costs have partially flowed to the hardware department of Save Fund, adjustments in the regulations of the fund are needed. The change is intended to reflect the loss of the equipment charge. The Department of Legislation on holdings due to the management of the department's prior equipment fees. They are expected to be assigned to the National Farmer Association of Iceland in relation to the changes to the property of the fund. The possessions are over 288 million. K. It is assumed that a special price for State Radio will be raised from 16,400k. ... at 16,800K, i.e. about 2.2%, due to general prices between 2016 and 2017. The estimated additional income of the increase is about 90 million. K. every year. A budget bill for 2017 accounts for 115 million. K. additional contributions to Iceland's National Publications Index in 2017 to meet the Agency's cost of shopping on passports and rebuilding a passport production system. In order to meet the extra supply, it is suggested that the pay for your passports be raised. The magnitude of the increase is based on the revenue of passports production in 2017. In the case of the proposal, a total price for 18◯66 years will increase from 10,250k. of 12,300 k. The Act on the Treaty contains the legal requirements of non-refundable capital and fiscal taxes in the case of legal requirements. It should be noted that in the case of individuals on July 1, each month, the spending will be made up of non-refundable budget and capital tax. A donation from the state funds to the Communication Fund is next. The law on farm income states that a donation from the state fund to the SEC should be calculated from the tax collections of state funds. Under government law, insurance costs are no longer part of the government's income. Thus, to eliminate any doubt, it is necessary to suggest a legal adjustment that, in addition to counting a donation from the state's funds to the SPC of the taxpayers, this should also be calculated from the financial fees paid by the state. Next, I'd like to discuss a deviation from the Minister's obligation to submit a budget for the next two years for a bill for budgeting by 2017. This is a point that I went along with my front discussion with the next year's budget bill and is suggested in this bill that we on temporary terms of government law be added a new paragraph. According to the law, a minister shall include a budget, found in a follow-up of the budget for the next two years and shall appear in the bill for financial purposes. From the granting of the law on public finances on January 1st. has not made room to set out precise plans for all projects and institutions, as required in the directive. Therefore, it is assumed that a waiver's obligation to submit a budget for funding for the next two years would be submitted by a bill for budgeting in 2017. Thus, such a program will be published for the first time in a follow-up with a bill for financial purposes before 2018. I have come first and foremost to argue that these extras will be granted on the preliminary decision that the management system has been difficult to fulfill the obligation to divide down three years into the past. I'd like to add to the additional argument that I don't think we're going to get any of it - it's the first year we're doing this change with a budget bill on a new basis, i.e. where the sentence is all based on the subject's activities, and for the first time, we are writing here with the budget bill, where the Ministry has violated the financial resources of its bodies at institutions - from the experience of the first year to work on a three - year schedule. There's a lot of things in this leaflet that I think we're all going to understand better when it comes to the project. As an example of the permission of a minister, I will take steps within the budget to change the budget. They are at length, but they have to follow a structured process and are introduced to a financial committee. I also mention as an example of exclusive forces. Unchangeable joints can study the billions of copies of this publication. One thing that the Parliament must consider in the years to come is how much of the total joint would like to see a full scope, how much space and flexibility should be given to stewards to divide them within the budget. For example, we have over a billion hospitals in the full - time copy. That's not all you could pick. Our reserves, how will that change benefit us? All of these are the factors that recommend that we take it, as I am here measuring for and we recommend on this bill, that for the first time we go through this process, we provide authorization for temporary failure to break down three years in the future. Then it is time to discuss the financial benefits of the bill. As I've traced, the bill's suggestions are varied, and so are its effects on income, prices, and riches. Change in child - making and growth reforms as well as the potential for buying at least 1.5 billion dollars. as it were, the increase in radio fees, the payment of the elderly, and the payment for passports is equal to a total of 200 million. K. Increase in dollar figures, i.e. alcohol, tobacco and fuel will inevitably affect the index price to increase, i.e. Close to 0.2%. In contrast, increases in the host tax will affect mainly the cost of buying and thus the demand of foreign tourists, but the impact on the index price will be some. In addition, the results of the production of the bill will be negligible on the provisional and financial resources, but the impact on the price of individual transport services could be an increase that could reduce the demand for tourists, especially when increasing the concentrations of the previous loss. That will be the net effect on the state's budget of positive levels of nearly 1.5 billion. This is only based on the impact of more than usual prices. For the work of the Economic and Business Committee, further improvements can be obtained on the impact of the production of state funds during 2017 at child-based reference levels, growth reforms, excess interest rates, increase in reimbursement of electrical and linking cars, the host tax, the agent in debt, and so on. This is all available as material for the committee to examine and consider. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u4	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the enforcing speech with a bill on various grounds of budgetary action. Of course, there are many ways to go. There are many things that are interesting and that raise questions. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of 16. ... whichis related to an increase in the carbon bill. It suggests that the amount of carbon tax from fuel is increased by 2.2% or in line with the prices of prices between 2016 and 2017. I wondered that the most direct way to reduce carbon levels and to enforce the Paris Treaty is the simplest way to raise the carbon back. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers will see if he sees the change in this particular price, the carbon account, for the increase so that we Icelanders can enforce the commitments we all want to be carried out. I think I can claim that all of us here in the councilroom would like the Paris Convention to be carried out. It's the highest. A minister insists that we meet the conditions that we have signed and committed to fulfilling according to the Paris covenant? How will this be done? Will this be done by an increase in carbon charge over prices, or in what other way does a minister do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u5	A respectable president. First of all, this acquiesced cost is suggested to increase excess prices, such as other dollar bills and taxes in the bill. Second, there is also an extension of temporary regulations to encourage rapid transport energy exchange so that the private car becomes environmentalized as well as the traditional diesel trucks. Third, I'd like to mention that Iceland's fuel for transportation is more expensive, so I think it's risky to focus on carbon costs, on fuel, to achieve these goals. Let us also bear in mind that Iceland is a rural land, and this can be particularly heavy in the country, in many parts of the country. The Department of Economics is working on a comprehensive review in this field to form the car payments and the interaction of these factors in order to simplify the system, to improve its efficiency, and to review its targets, including In view of the worldwide commitments we have made, we appreciate the results of the changes we have made in recent years. I think that's where I think that we're the best parishioners we've got. But as everyone knows, in recent years we have worked according to the principle that as automobiles dump less greenhouse gases, the lower the costs of transport are. This whole system is revised and has a job on it well and should be reduced to the results of the work force.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u6	Mr. President. I believe it was important what was said in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister, I have to state that I have serious doubts that the budget and the bill support the commitment between Iceland and the environment. Therefore, I especially rejoice that a minister is trying to approach the matter in general and in other ways. He even points. the use of energy in automobiles. And although we do not yet have that government here, we need to remember that in the budget bill, certain policies are reflected in certain categories, including environmentally. So I think it's important and celebrate at the same time that statement. Minister that this is being taken into consideration by a comprehensive perspective within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u7	A respectable president. I believe that when we change laws in the stated purpose of affecting the development of climates when it comes to the release of greenhouse gases in Iceland, we have to look at the whole thing. Everything will have to be underneath there. I think there's a clear signal in this bill that we're doing the right thing. Then I refer to what I've said about the extension of the import of environmental vehicles. In terms of the carbon charges, I think it would be risky to start raising them in addition to what is suggested here. Then there are all the other factors that must be included in the discussion, e.g. energy exchange in the fishing outlets, where newer and more efficient ships are being purchased, is now not released from the discussion the recovery of wetlands. [[The president calls.]] This can be achieved with the greatest results in stopping emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u8	Mr. President. I'd like to take it further on the carbon account because, as shown in a bill at the highest level. A minister will submit to the market of emissions that we have been responsible for not achieving the results. It comes as no surprise to the person here, but this is what the Icelanders entered into like others, what was decided to do at the common European scene. Today, radical people, such as Lagarde Lagard, director of the World Bank, appear and say: The Mark doesn't work, and this is the time for radically raising the carbon. According to the international scholars who have spoken about this, the global carbon price is too low to interfere with climate change. I'd also like to say that as we look at what's going on in neighboring countries, we'll see that the Norwegians have been at the front of a class when it comes to carbon pay. They can directly show that they have had this price much longer than any other country, or since the beginning of the 1990's, that it can be directly linked to the carbon bill's recession in greenhouse gas emissions. I'd like to reiterate that question as a dog. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir brought to the highest station. Ministers, whether there is reason to look into this further, not just because of climate goals, but because of government funds do not provide income for various projects. I think this calls for a whole-scale policy, I'm sure it's right by the highest level. Minister, but we need to focus on policy measures which have been successful and which are not. When we examine the data objectively, the carbon account produces results, which, of course, require radical increases. On the other hand, it can be implemented in view of the moving area, such as the busiest. A minister correctly points to, i.e. There may be some exports, so a more radical rise would not be the cause of the people who are dependent on transportation equipment such as those driven by fossil fuels to cross places that may not affect us here in urban areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u9	A respectable president. Of course, this is an enormous discussion. We're talking about a price of 6 k. and are talking about raising it up to 6.3. We've seen the fuel pot leave 100 bucks. over 200 k. ... becauseof world changes. I remember when I was on the pump at the Garðaville gas station, filling the tank and the meter stopped because it could not count more than 10 up. K. That's when we were only new. I think we have to realize that there are other factors besides whether we take 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, 14Ks. here, which can have more effect. That's why I'm stressing so much that we're looking at the whole thing. How much did the use of Iceland in the past change with the price of over 200 dollars? on a litre of perhaps less than 100 bucks.? How much did that change? Let us see. Then we may have some picture of the level of ethicism and the degree of the effect we can have on our behavior. I think there are other measures that are even more likely to be successful, as people seem to look for the incentives of buying an environmentally friendly car with a lighter import spell being made. However, for the sake of this price it may also be said that the changes we measure are extremely limited in view of a significant decrease in fuel prices in the recent stages. If, then, a person wants to keep it in the highest terms, he must recognize that it will have an effect, for example. on prices in the country. It will affect the debt status of households by insured loans, etc. I say again, let's look at the whole thing. We have one of the highest prices of fuel for transport in Iceland that is known, by the higher. [[The president calls.]] We are in the same area as other Norwegian countries, but at the same time, other countries with a variety of pressures are much lower. I think it's more what Lagarde Lagarde is referring to, although she may not be talking about Venezuela, where it costs less than $1 to fill the tank. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u10	Mr. President. I also wanted to mention a very short time, we may have to take this discussion about the carbon pay later in a larger context, that, of course, we should have here on the table a comprehensive plan from an advanced government because the Paris Convention has been decided to validate. We would have wanted a much clearer view of how we are going to do so, a carbon account, and everything else. Only in terms of housing support because growth reforms were discussed, interest improvements were discussed in a bill at the highest level. Minister and foreclosure. It was noted in the historical record that support of housing is still being made. Yes, it is. There are a large number of systems to support housing. We finished one of these at the end of our last council, which was a special support for young people to buy at their first apartment. However, at the same time that all this total reexamination has been conducted, decisions are actually taken through financial funds. It has been seen with the development of the growth reform system, which we have repeatedly criticized. They have gone down without real discussion about how we are going to develop the housing support system. At the same time, new support systems are being installed, so the system is actually becoming more complex. The common people do not realize where they are headed because there has never been a real political debate over whether we are going to fall away from the growth reform system. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister if complete vision is not needed in this matter, i.e. for housing support. This development of the growth reform system has actually occurred through financial decisions, not through an overall political debate in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u11	A respectable president. Yes, I think it might be said that we could have a more comprehensive view of the development of these support systems when we're making changes. It's not quite simple. We did, for example. changes in housing panels in the preparation of collective agreements and the provision of the posts at the Department of Social Affairs were expected to provide housing improvements, which in some ways are referred to as children's reform and growth reform systems. So, in recent years, we've had some specific actions, the debt drains, the 110% pathway, and then now support for the purchase of the first estate. When we consider these systems, we also need to look at the links to the income tax system and examine them in particular the peripheral effects of the tax system. That's why I agree. I think we could have done better with our overall situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u12	A respectable president. I'm going to step aside a little bit from an increase in a dollar's price on alcohol and fuel. This increase is 2.5% in excess of prices, and the evidence suggests that this is intended to improve compression. Now I know we're at the highest. Financial Ministers agree that the role of the IRS is at least earning money, including earning a income balance role or some role in the management of consumers. In my opinion, the tax system doesn't, and it's not supposed to be an economic position. I don't think it's used here for that purpose. I'd love to hear the highest opinion. Secretary of finance of this matter, as well as his opinion on whether he really thinks it is likely that this level of centenarians will hit a panel. It is attributed to the bill that the effects of this level of centenarians are 0.2% increase in the index price of consumers. However, there must be a greater effect. Has it been considered how this will affect future inflation marriages, such as that affects the financial resources of the households as approved in the bill? This, in part, does more. ... toimprovetheinsurement of their homes' debt. I wondered why these groups of merchandise are once again, whether it's some kind of whisker to always squeeze into the alcohol and household car when it comes to income and it's done under, I'll let myself tell the possible false charges. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u13	A respectable president. No, it's not a cooler. In 2016 we are, for example, one. with no increase in these same charges i.e. zero increase, meaning that the true value of these taxes has been to lose prices from the state funds perspective. If we look back a few years, we made a deal with the labour market to never raise these taxes beyond the prices of the Federal Bank. We've been able to keep up with that in the last few years. Thus, a period of reference is now drawing to an end, and this rise is primarily intended to maintain these government income institutions, such as this in price. Of course, there's a problem with having centenarian taxes because of inflation, it's obvious that such taxes continue to demoralize, so it's a yearly conversation at the Council. I have a personal opinion that the tax system is often allowed to be that we allow people to retain as much of themselves as possible, but then we have in other respects an tax system based on the fact that the taxes are so much higher. Under here, in these centenarian fees and taxes, we have particularly what is often called swimming taxes, tobacco, alcohol, fuel, and such factors that have a host of ill effects on human health and environment. I support tax policy based on the fact that such taxes are relatively high, given that not all the income taxes are on the bottom as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u14	A respectable president. Yes, it may be more appropriate and more right to call these taxes sin taxes. Let's call the taxes the right names. These are not taxes to strike, not if they intend to claim that they will earn the money of 3.7 billion. I noticed that alcohol makes a profit of 1.7 billion, which, of course, is nothing in the big context, but it's not right to suggest it on the grounds that it should be added. Also, there's a demand for these groups of products, which I seriously question. I count at least It is normal for a person to call things the right names. I understand that the state needs to earn money, but the taxes need to be laid on that basis, with neither respect to sins nor social expansion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u15	A respectable president. It is good to take this discussion and, at the same time, take into consideration other legal adjustments. What we're doing is losing less than 4 billion in the income tax system by lowering the bottom step, removing the middle phase. Then we leave about 4 billion for the employees of this country through the income tax system. Similarly, we are dropping about 3 billion customs. At the same time, these dollar bills and taxes rise slightly. I like this change, leaving more money in people's hands and keeping the value of taxes on this. But it cannot be overlooked that there are certain tokens and, in some respects, can be said, as presented here, that by means of an increase in taxes, only the effects of other changes are weighed against.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u16	Mr. President. As shown in yesterday's budget debate, there are many good times in the economy here. There has been an enormous amount of growth to form in individual sectors, such as tourism, which has been very important in putting the Icelandic economy on its feet after the shock it had eight years ago. There are also signs that there are now some of the dangers that may be primarily related to overexhaustration and overheating of the economy. Today, members of the Parliament sound warnings from all sides, caution when it comes to spending more and more money, in light of this expansion. But then there is a problem. We also have the position we all know, that is an enormously cumulative need for both investment and additional expenses. Of course, when it comes to increasing business donations, I specifically mention the university and Home Hospitals in a university hospital where it was known that they have a significantly greater need for money than was planned for a financial bill. However, I would also like to mention, of course, a transport program adopted by the General Assembly not long ago by all votes of which additional investments were being announced to the total total of 1,3115 billion, which are not expected in the budget bill. However, we have a bill on how to make money next year. These suggestions do not assume that this need will be reached either when it comes to investment or to the increase in business. I feel that this is a thought - provoking point, for example, to face a tax decline approved last year that goes into effect during the year if the Council does not decide to change it, as it was decided to eliminate one step from a step - apart income tax system. But it is also worth considering that no further income is expected to meet the need that all classes in the form of elections a month ago would recognize. In recent years, government income stocks have been weakened. These included a reduction in hunting costs, but also some taxing measures that ran out during the season and were not extended. At the same time, we see a considerable economic rise, of course it is useful to all, but it is also shown by the increased integration of wealth at the highest level of society. Fewer Icelanders have a lot of the money in the community. Three-quarters of the capital is in the richest 10%. That's what we should be talking about here. We should be discussing how we're going to tax the most taxpayers, whether through some kind of big tax or through a raised fiscal tax, in order to handle this integration of wealth, and to ensure that we're living under the welfare system, the university, the hospitals, the schools, the schools, the important equations we're bringing together. This is what political conflict is about. Not some centenarian increase in alcohol. The political conflict is about whether we feel normal or not and fair or not taxing the capital in which we find and use taxes to work for the sake of public interest. We do this by strengthening the welfare system, by reducing the payment of patients, which will continue at the highest level in Iceland despite a new roof on payment, a positive step, but will not prevent the participation from continuing at the highest conventions in Iceland. We do this by making sure that high school is open to all, not just to some, as was arranged here three years ago. We do this by ensuring the well - being of those who may be less fortunate. Then I am witnessing to the poor and the elderly. It is true that 11 billion are added in good social security. But we all know here that what we have spoken for is not going to ensure the minimal progress of these groups. Looking at extra expenses is not enough. We also have to look to the actual needs of these groups and what eventually they get in the pay layer. That's not good enough. This is not even sufficient according to the standards established by governments themselves in the form of progressive guidelines on the Homepage of the Ministry of Health. But that also does not mean going to some barbrells and taking money from loans and putting into the business. We all know how it works. This economic experiment has been made in Iceland with poor results. We just have to face it, even though it's unpopular and people don't want to talk about it, that to get a job, we need to earn money or show some extra resources. Parliamentaries have been giving talks on the budget bill. Where, though, should we show them? Should this be done in hospitals, clinics, health care, schools? Or is it to be in the increasingly popular administration, which all agree not to live up to its name because it has become so weak? However, they can always be pointed out there, saying that they need extra support. As we make the demands, increasing demands, the need for the government to supervise, to protect public interest, to protect the interests of consumers, e.g. When it comes to food production, there is always talk of the great surveillance industry and that it can be saved. No, Mr. President. I think changing tax policy could result in a double target. I'm not sure that much of the members of Congress would agree. But the goal would be to promote the most important support to ensure the general well - being of people in society, welfare and education, and to use the tax system to improve the equation. Because the rest won't do. If we really mean it by wanting to increase the equation in this society, if we hurt something by increasing the equation in society, we'll do it through the tax system. Why do I say that? Yes, because it has been demonstrated. If you have read something in economic studies and focus on how we can guarantee an increased equation, we know that it will not just help to improve the welfare system at good times, as Iceland has sometimes thought, but the tax system needs to be used in a more efficient way and to distribute the income and possessions in a more just way. That's what politics is all about. That's what politics is all about. They want to add up the equation. It's not the politics we see in this bill. It is primarily under minimal provisions that are not sufficient to cover the expenses already approved at the International Parliament. I'd also like to discuss this from an economic point of view. There have been decreases in taxes, despite warnings from Iceland's Secret Bank, which I would not call an extremely radical economic policy. Why has Iceland's Secret Bank warned about this? Because he's been pointing at the token. He has pointed out that tax declines actually add more to the spell. But if people are determined to reduce their taxes, there are other areas to which they need to be maintained. That is what we have seen done in recent years. This is why various organizations that are badly at present face - to - face with the present difficult situation. The situation at the Land Hospital did not exist yesterday, and neither did it occur in the collapse. It has been cut down since 2003. This support has been weakened. It's an assignment. Conventioners stand before us, how to meet this need, and whether people are prepared to do so in a convenient way. I'd like to discuss also the taxes and fees mentioned here. I only came to the carbon account earlier in answer. I think of it as a general view, and it was shown at the European climate conference in Paris last December, that the market solution adopted by the European Union on emissions has not yielded the results that were considered to be successful, i.e. Those who were believed in that release. That's why we're seeing a shrink in the bill. It's because of how the market has developed. I said earlier that the price was estimated to be 80% too low in a international level so that it yielded the desired results according to international definitions. However, we are running out of time to respond. Although Iceland is a small country, and it really doesn't matter, because we're so few, it still is that doing something seriously on climate matters can affect us. Little countries are also listened when the nations meet together to discuss climate issues. They listen as much as the big ones say. The latest news from the United States may suggest that there will be no more extreme numbers of climate conferences, in view of the latest measures in a country in which a U.S. Environment Agency has been appointed to deny climate change and its effects. Maybe it won't matter what we Icelanders do, but I'm going to refuse to believe it. I show that little countries can have a powerful influence when it comes to changing the discussion. And we're running out of time. The fact is, as we look at the world, more public money, the public funds, is spent to strengthen nonrenewable energy than the renewables. And just because of the strong pressure of interest stakeholders, they have not been able to establish a carbon tax that works. This was for example in the 2010 European Union. They were stopped because of the lobsterism from stakeholders in this field. But we are not bound by the European Union, fortunately. We can do something that would remain. I'd also like to mention that I'm happy to know that the balance is up. It was announced in the State Budget Program. It's tripled. I would've wanted to see more policy, I think we should have been waiting for this council, to tax the travel service. It is sad that the work was not successful when the natural pass bill fell on a cut-off of some reconstituted route, e.g. taking up return expenditures so that we could increasingly conduct access to the country and, on the other hand, take in income to build up infrastructure for tourism. Of course, the coming fee is a single income market, such as the host's fee, which is primarily used in the construction of infrastructure, transport projects, and what may be defined. In fact, I believe that the matter of tourism should be taken into consideration. Tourism called for a special campaign service. It might even be thought, in order to view this matter with others and new eyes, to combine the affairs of the environment environment's environment with a clear green policy when it comes to travel policies. Of course, there we should use the cost of coming and staying in order not only to be in business but also to look to how we can ensure a natural business around tourist locations. This is to form a screaming shortage of espionage. In order to avoid losing the experience and knowledge that we have built up here, we need much more than by means of practical projects, but by means of business projects, so that we do not lose out on the experience and knowledge we have built up so that we can secure the continuation of more intensive tourism. We know that this important profession is also swinging. It matters how we handle these matters, how we get some relief from the way we are going to take the cost of travel, and how we're going to use them so that we'll be better fired. Mr. President. I've just started my speech, but I'm afraid we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u17	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u18	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u19	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for her speech. There were many things I could agree on, such as how we have a more specific and more progressive way of building up the tourist service, the tourist industry, as some call it. It is important that we discuss in greater context how we are going to do so, whether by coming fees, a higher stay than any other amount of money, which may include spending time at home. is included in the current bill, or other ways. This needs to be made specific and clear because the wood needs to be built up so that it doesn't cremate within some year. It remains that I want my mind to agree with what's happened. A senator on health care development and education systems. I'd like to point out that I think most groups, if not all, have placed this on their pre-election policy list. Also, whether within the educational system or within the health - care system or in the health - care system, we need to see other ways to improve the equation and equal opportunities. It remains that I am rather reluctant in general in the basic prince to raise taxes, but we also have to learn from experience, and we see that the reduction of taxes is critical when signs of expansion are imminent. I pointed to medical care earlier, as a matter of course. A senator talked about it. We need to make more money there. We're hearing now that we need extra funding. in a tunnel, the animal tunnel, an important procedure. We're talking about the education and health system. A large part of the government spending is the cost of interest. We have to try to get the interest fees of the state's funds down. Then there must be a consideration during this terms, including the year when the convention was scheduled. how we do so, for instance, by selling government owners like banks. I'd like to underscore that we should be careful about it. I want a attitude. A senator to see if she can support herself during the election season that we try to reduce the State's interest rates by selling as a part of the banks so that we can then put more into and strengthen the health and education system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir against her answer. I'd like to say, of course, it's important to lower the government's interest costs. That is why a single person was in this hall when it came to the stability proposals, to use them to reduce the State's interest costs, and to pay off debts. Not by default. It wouldn't have been always easy. But it shows the very responsible stand of the Generals, that I believe, to have taken that stand. However, it is also important to recognize that monotonous coins can be used in monotonous measures, i.e. mainly to reduce debt or to some project. That money will not be used in the business, so you say now. State budgets are important to reduce the reduction in scope for business. I'm saying it's not natural for the state to have all the banks it has today. I believe the government should have the Lands Bank, but not necessarily more banks. I believe, however, that the government and the General should take advantage of the opportunity we now have when the banking system is in our arms, and of course we can do so even if it's not in our arms, but I think it's important that we take a talk about the overall policy development of how we want to see the banking system. I believe that there should be an opportunity to separate business and investment banking, which is part of what has been talked about in Europe, but also in the United States because of the financial crisis. There are different ways to separate these activities. But I think there's a need to be available before something gets sold out of banks or banks in one piece what these policies are supposed to be. I think it's very important that she lies in the way. Then I'd like to say, of course, that it needs to be careful. There is a demand for Icelandic banks, and a price for these assets is needed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u21	Mr. President. I think it was important to have this past you. Senator. I agree with her that selling property is very dangerous and then putting the proceeds directly into business. This must be done in a reasonable way so that we can build up stability in the economy, in terms of government over time, so that we can eventually go to the goal that unites us, including. building up health, health care, education systems, etc. I would also like to kiss the council that was here before the last election, a number of interesting events that took place during that council. There were more personal matters than you often had the feeling when you were watching the council, on large and important matters, such as foreign demands, stability plans, etc. I hope so, including. in the light of the answer as the dog. A senator stated earlier, that we can unite in being reasonable, responsible, careful about looking at government owners like banks. It can be said that the State has at least a share in the Lands Bank, or all, but we are going to make the government more sustainable in the long run. This is an assignment that we need to take, and we need to do it as unitedly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u22	Mr. President. I can say with what. A senator's need for solidarity. I think it's true that the last council has worked hard on this, often and times at least But we must not forget that when talking about the responsible management of a trust fund, it must be compared to responsible business in a community. We're not here because of the government fund, so it's up to you. He exists because of us, not us senators, but us Icelanders. He's supposed to be our tool to make this community better. In chapters, I feel that when we discuss public financial matters - and there we have established rules that we as members of the left movement have made because we believe that the rules apply to a particular economic prince who is out of harmony with the political vision that we agree to, in turn, are about to be equal and social justice - as if a government fund has become overruled to the people of the country. That's not the way it should be. There's a treasure for the people of the country. We must ask ourselves: " When the rule has come in such a way that we are not at peace with the services society provides to its citizens whether there is something wrong with the rules. That was the main point of my speech earlier. It's about basic politics, how we collect the money and how we expand it, and whether we view the financial system and state funds as the leader of our lives, or whether we view it as a servant of the people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u23	A respectable president. When traveling on a journey, ask yourself: " Where am I? Where do I want to go? Then, when you have the answers to those questions, you may want to ask, " Which path to take along, perhaps? ' When we discuss taxes, it comes from this standpoint and from these questions. Where are we and where do we want to go? Where are we already at the total tax rate? If we look at OECD figures, total tax returns from GDP, taxes are high here. The total tax returns above 40% of gross domestic product. By this convention, we were at the 8th of that list in 2014. And if we were to take into account that in most of these countries, pension funds are funded by a tax system, but in our case it has some kind of obligation, storage systems, we'll probably end up even higher, somewhere in the top five seats. Granted, some taxes are lower and higher, and if they want to develop a certain mental attitude during the discussion, it is easy to point out these examples either to want to lower taxes or to increase taxes on a company, but all these small or large movements need to be examined by the question: Where do we want to go? Not all of us agree with the answer to that question. We could take it that Iceland should be the country at the top of the list, that would have the highest tax on this scale. We could push that number from 40% to 50%, then go up to Dani when it comes to taxing. I know that many people would not object, and I admit that I respect that fact. This, as mentioned earlier, is one basic question in politics: How much is the Kingdom going to do? I respect the fact that we deal with this. I was born myself in a country where it wasn't done. In that state, there were no controversies, no night meetings, no special conflicts with the budget. The government's situation never had a filibuster, since there may have been no political opposition, or it may not have been in the same house as the rulers. The government opposers were elsewhere, so I especially rejoice that we should be here in the same house, in one place, arguing over these matters. I respect those who want to increase the public activity, but I'm not there, and neither I nor Resurrection have spoken of shrinking over time. Our proposals for elections were neutral in this respect. The taxes today are, as previously said, 40% of GDP. If we wanted to get to 50%, we might try it, and if we want to try, we could do so in a wrong, incontrovertible, and indelibly, way. IRS is a fair way. Higher expenditures for resource use are a fair and efficient route. Parking costs are a very reasonable and efficient way. A variety of green taxes can be a reasonable and effective method that at the same time helps us to reach a certain goal that we have set for ourselves. All of these, however, increase income and thus increase public activity if nothing else is done in return. A respectable president. Before 2017, we will discuss a bill to legalize various criteria for the budget. It contains many suggestions, most of which have increases in income that may well be needed. They disagree with my emphasis and restoration. It's cool. It's cool. It's cool. Higher nose taxes? I know it knows, I find it hard to see how the tax that affects everyone regardless of income is fair. But in any case, I think a higher budget for the use of natural resources would be a more practical and reasonable way to obtain money than the one proposed and likely more practical and fairer than many other tax routes used today, such as the one used today. tax on growth, capital tax, where interest payments rarely reach inflation rates. When I talk about resource expenditures or auction routes, I am thinking not only of raising the lasting income of a state fund but, of course, that other curses can be lowered. I think that in general we should look more in the direction that the meeting area on the increase in prosperity returned earlier this year to our tax proposals, which were just considered to change the income of the state's funds in the way mentioned here. Higher resource costs, higher green taxes, simpler tax systems, lower taxes on low income, less profits on a business. A respectable president. While it may be tempting to use a good year's trip to increase the spending permanently, there are things to be avoided. I don't want to be known as one of the middle senators. The promises made by me and us in the Reunion in the campaign were not increasing the affairs of the State or reducing them. They were already making good use of the opportunities to prepare us for the future. I and we will work on this bill in harmony with that promise.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u24	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek for his virgin talk, but I'm afraid it's customary not to object to a virgin speech, so I sincerely apologize for that. But mostly, I come here to commend him for his speech and to thank her very much. I have such a general comment because my speech intrigued me very much. It is true that we are very high on tax returns with regard to GDP - I was out on the committee field earlier, and there I saw some of the cornea - and saw that it was about 35%. There's a bank tax inside and something complicated. But this was even the second place. Maybe it was just new numbers, I don't know. It is also interesting to consider these numbers considering that we are relatively high in the production of a per head in the case of OECD countries. My comment, or I'm sorry about the sleigh, is that I find it interesting that we're underneath the average of various categories of languages, e.g. taking into account the education process when we have this high tax system and this huge production, but we don't make it. It seems fun, or rather boring, a failure to make money and how to get it out. In view of this interesting talk, I would be interested in hearing why. A senator of this discrepancy about numbers there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u25	Yes, thank you for an interesting question. Some of this is true. - I've noticed that it's a tradition here in the hall that you talk in reply until some built-in computer has decided that you have an answer, and then this button starts to blink. Or I've imagined that it worked that way, so I'll see if it doesn't work as well over me as anyone else. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] It is true that we are high in total taxes, which in general makes me think that we could certainly prioritize our income in some other way. Of course, our educational contributions are somewhat different from those. The education system, the basic education system, and the high school system may be relatively expensive because we have been studying there longer than others. But I have to say, I don't have the numbers all the way out here in front of me on this intervening exchange. I do not trust completely right now to declare where I would like to cut down and divide the cake in some other way. But there must be a time when it will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget and others at once. Councilmen for their speeches. It's true what's been said in the conversation yesterday and today; we've had quite a good time in the last semester. Enlarged tourist currents, mackerel, which came at the best of time, low oil prices, and things that have worked with us and, of course, successed after the financial breakdown. Hence, it is somewhat odd that during this winding voyage, the boat has begun leaking, and its infrastructure rots at the same time, with fewer and fewer, and more, more, and more of the desolate. The situation at this assembly today is of special importance. We are sitting around working on budgeting without any obvious more things being done. It is an interesting test stone in itself, but in financial terms it always appears in a very clear way that the groups'attitude toward the community they want to build. During the last days, much has been discussed about the fact that this is an neutral budget tailored to officials. Of course, this is far away. This is sewn out by the Department of State over 2017/2021, approved at the Fall Summit. That's what makes the situation a little tricky, that it's not working out of an neutral zero, it's a government policy. A government budget did not expect enough money to go on individual projects that the Ministers seemed to like, and it is enough to include a reduction in payment. Nor does the financial bill respect many of the promises made by an advanced government group for elections. And finally there is a vast will for senators since the autumn months, including with an agreed transport plan, completely ignored. Of course, as soon as it is good for governments to hold firmly to Kingdom stability and responsibilities, they must at least keep what was promised. In the end, it's about words and words. In that light, it is good to remind you of the information about the finance policy made by the Sustainer. It says something in a way that if it is not considered considered to reduce the investment of public employees, other expenditures or government increase of income, e.g. ... witha higher taxance. The majority of the classes now wanted to represent considerable infrastructure, so let's assume that there is a broad harmony between the groups of the groups about significant changes in the bills. The work ahead, then, must be about how we are going to earn and make wise decisions, in other words, how members of the Parliament will fulfill the big words. A respectable president. Each of us agrees that we need to act wisely in such a way that we will be balanced in Kingdom living, and we should, of course, also live in the best interests of ourselves. We're supposed to pay off debt, save out where we belong, and set our priorities wisely. We should never forget, though, that the overall status of the treasure of the Kingdom does not tell the whole story about how individuals are doing it. It was during the third day of Kast Light's visit. Secretary of finance, by permission of the President: Of course, we're all human and each has his own standards but if we just look at the statistics, what the economics are telling us, there's no subject in any argument here. Today, over 6,000 children live in poverty in Iceland, poor age, and elderly live in poverty, many find it difficult to get needed medical care, and many homes simply do not make ends meet. Our children are falling back out of the nations in a consistent school profile, such as PISA, and our young people, the same people, and will reduce the consumption of the Memorial service for the next 40-◯50 years, do not cover their heads, and stumble at an uncertain tenet, while our children run between school districts and escapes and lose contact with their friends. So, looks like we got a lot of work to do. I'm not calling for any fight like the highest. The minister of finance called it, only that we take a serious decision on how we will spend the money we have, and in what way each one of us is to assume responsibility, in other words: What future do we want to offer to our children? The United States has put the emphasis on equalizing the terms of the country. Those who bear more weight should bear more weight, and we should protect those who are weaker. It has to be taken care of and improve the public service and strengthen the infrastructure, as all classes promised for elections. We need large financial support for the health and education system and to ensure that, regardless of the economy, age, or residence, everyone can be accessed. We need to increase money in transport, communication, and other key roles when it comes to segregation conditions. At last, I think we need to start having a serious conversation with the local government phase for the switch-off of income farms. While government funds are somewhat successful, many rural communities are struggling and may not even have money in legal service, and this is often a service that is absolutely decisive for the way people do things. It is so strange, then, that in recent years governments have given up opportunities to balance the terms and attack the needed injections on the inside. Preservation has been lifted by high - paying volunteers, we have dropped the fishing costs for a fishing business in the fishing industry, and a total of this two - to - one income loss of about 15 billion dollars. every year. Someone would have said that it would be good to have that money in the railer now. At the same time, such equations as child repairs and growth improvements have been reduced, and this, of course, reduces the function and function of support systems. In the budget bill, there seems to be only a little more than a response to prices or pay development. This could, for example, be possible. The hospital, I'm telling you, you need 5 billion, and the hospital at Akureyri is 350 million, only to live under the same level of service and the anticipated increase, including. due to changes in national age and increased tourism. To put this matter in context only, Matthíasson spoke to the governor of the Land Hospital, for example, that it is about 10% cut, this is the 5 billion cuts, and this is the greatest cuts the Landsaver has ever had since a collapse. That's a lot. During the last term, the most successful professional growth was in the service articles in the tourism industry, and it is in itself possible for tourism to flourish. Iceland, on the other hand, is most dependent on promoting innovation and creative thinking. If we are to be truly competitive with our neighboring nations, we need to put forth great effort to further our education. We're gonna have to make it up, both college and college. Of course, we also need to make sure that they are open to all, regardless of their economic situation, age, and residence. We too need to pay much more attention to young children. It's disappointing as I seem to be expected, that there's a lack of child development and growth. It has to be fixed. There are also ways to cope with the long - term housing problems of young people, but we also need to deal with the emergency problems that are so obvious, especially in the capital area. In addition, older ones and micropunchers need to be cared much more. All too many of them simply live in poverty, and if they have a chance to earn money, they are just as tough to deal with. Added to this is high health costs, which even happen to victims if they cannot cope with them themselves. Finally, as for the elderly, nursing homes and nursing homes have become scarce. Some rural society has fallen under the expense of it. A respectable president. I'm not going to go anywhere precise into the stitches of individual teams in the budget and income premieres of this discussion, but I'm going to remind you of the promises of the classes they most proposed for campaigns in the construction of public services. Therefore, I would like to encourage all members of the Parliament to make the necessary changes to the projections. It is necessary to ensure not only economic but also social stability in this country. Let us leave this document in such a way that it is more likely that the country is moving toward more justice in the future than injustice, and now it is only time for senators to stand at the big words so that they can arrive at the Christmas party in a few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u27	President. I thank you for a fine and encouraging talk. I was going to ask you what. A senator to see if he or she will not lose sight of the budget and the expenses needed to do so. Today, leaders of the late government have claimed to have budgets in the blues plus, that's a real profit. But at the same time, when you look over the numbers, the department seems to be supposed to be, so the household should be starving to pay off the loans on the house. I wanted to ask the senator if there are any other methods, which would be the best way to go so that the members of the Icelandic nation will not starve next year. It is clear that the health system, education system, as well as the national rights, law enforcement, is not possible, as people expect us to have a common system where everyone should have the same rights. You find it a little strange when you listen to those who support these financial laws, which are forwarders and independents, that before the election, it was just promised to respond to the calls of 86 thousand Icelanders to restore the health system, but then you can see no sign of it. Also, large teams need to be financed. I'd like to ask you what. When such a financial bill is presented, a senator feels that it is a built - in dishonesty. I find this so strange and so hard to explain. Why do we have the budget that should appear to be in the blues plus that is so in the bottoms?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u28	A respectable president. I don't know if I'd dare use the word dishonesty. But this may appear even more clearly now, but often in the past, because the laws of the law actually come directly into the election. People are so fresh in mind how to praise and speak to them. It is no secret that I have a certain view of how we can raise money for this building. In fact, it was all presented in a fine speech. Katrín's sister, who was Jakobsdóttir's daughter earlier. I simply think, unlike classical right men, who only want to use the tax system to raise income, for the most essential basis, that one of the most important components of the tax system is a income balance device. We have lost tens of billions of lives because of the unnecessary reduction of laws on those who have a wide range of sheets and are able to carry them. The decision now being made to cut down an intermediate tax level is added. It may not be a tax on a very high salary income, so I don't know how to feel about it. But I think at least that we have quite a chance to run a lot of money to live up to, not just what we promised, but what is absolutely necessary if this system of things is not somehow paralyzed and we are to be dragged back from other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u29	I appreciate the answer. One of the things you have been seeking is that according to international decisions, we feel that we are a rich nation. We are a small nation with enormous access to vast resources. It has somehow evolved, so our common resources, the profit they make, have not worked well enough as a national company. Now, in all this discussion, it is clear that we will not get much out of the box, since we will get it in late. We're discussing budgets, and you can't make a lot of changes, e.g. if someone wanted to raise the fishing costs or change the marine export system so that we would enjoy this common wealth better. Would it be beneficial for us to talk more about what is practical now and what people will do in the years ahead? The discussion often lacks long - term vision. This is where we can, for example. no comment on how these budgets could be put on the next fishing year, since it began before the bill was submitted. Of course, there are all kinds of possibilities like this. collecting fees, such as incubator fees, return fees, parking fees, etc. But is it not a bit important to avoid taking it all at once so that those who are building up in the tourism service will not experience investments and then land so much that they cannot continue their business? Is it not so important to have a balanced, long - term view?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u30	A respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u31	The president asks the senator to hang around while he's being introduced in a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u32	A respectable president. Sorry about that. To cope with the first thing that happened. A senator said that it would be absolutely necessary not only for once but regularly for a discussion of the fundamental views of society and how it should be built up and how to finance it. Hv. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek came up fine with his opinion of that. That's where we may be. We could go on a trip together, but we wouldn't pack the same things in the bags, so I'll use his metaphor. I believe that we should use the tax system to level the status of the people of the country. Yes, we were all born with a claim to the wealth of the land. That's where I agree. paritaprevir Pawel Bartoszek, where we can extract much more from our resources. Individual groups may then discern the ways in which this is done. Of course, there is talk that can be taken. I agree with you, too. Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter's seminar that, of course, a man has to learn moderation and be careful. Business matters should not be compromised by putting spells too clearly on them. I think that's something that everyone understands. Still, we need to put forth great effort to see that there is no final loss of basic health care, education, and even roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u33	President. We are now discussing a bill on various criteria for budgeting for 2017. There are some interesting chapters directly related to natural bill. In the past, the amount of money that the budget gives this year has been mentioned. There's always talk of unfinished teams that do not appear in the bill. I can't understand it any other way than that it doesn't have a plus. We're in the minus, if the teams come in, we're definitely in the minus, not unless we throw them away. These are some factors that the Parliament has already agreed on, such as a transport plan, so we are in the minus. We'll have to finance these teams soon. This is of great interest to me in the fact that the government laws on government finance, financial programmes follow, it says that the government is to return 1% over the next few years in order to get beyond debt. Hence, the rest is set up as this amount. I don't know if it affects which sides get into the budget or not. At least it's interesting to me. In view of the and the discussions that have taken place regarding the elections and the expenses that the party was fighting for in the campaign, I find it interesting that it is not really expected in the bill for a budget left by an advanced council. As far as I know, this is done, for example. in Denmark, where they know they have 2%, I don't know exactly what proportion, whether it's from gross domestic product or of funding, which will be carried out during the coming election period or immediately during the coming council. There is something that we may want to add to our laws on public financial matters during this council. We are now in the most interesting situation of the council. This bill, for example, has a range of criteria for financing for 2017. Other points are the increase in radio charge, the European Commission, and other groups, which are being raised in terms of prices. As noted, these joints have a direct influence on the index. Hv. paritaprevir Sigpride Á. Andersen pointed out that there was a 0.2% increase in index price of consumption. The increase in oil costs is to meet the rise in prices, causing them to rise again. There is a firm positive view of it, as it is called in English; I do not know quite accurate expressions of it in English, perhaps a positive reanimation. I'm particularly interested in the radio charges and the expenses of the elderly because they come in as a bond payment when we settle our taxes. I know personally that it's not so easy to pay 10 to 30 yous. K. that month for people who don't make money. This is quite a bit of monthly expenses for a large number of people. Not everyone, especially those who live on monthly incomes, will be able to make arrangements for a month before, for these exchange expenses all year long. I find that interesting, e.g. in view of the application fees. Why are costs not exactly the same? I have a feeling it was suggested that people feel the radio fee, which may have been an unpopular fee for some political parties. I don't know about the elderly, I don't know why he's on a boat. I'd rather this ratio was inside the tax percentage like, for example. application fees, or the application fee disappears completely. The above reference was made to so - called swimming taxes. I'd like to mention them. Of course, the cost is at hand, e.g. Alcohol and oil lying in the community. As a community, we need to respond, and the treasure of the Kingdom is for this, as it were. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, urged, to serve us all. We need to work together on the taxpaying costs. I don't see it as swimming taxes, I see it as cost taxes. I find it interesting to hear different opinions about what to call them. If they're supposed to call things their real names, I think the cost tax is the right name. The local community in the capital area concluded about the cost of stay, mentioned in this bill that there will be an increase from 100 to $300. They thought it normal, as well as me and Pirates, to have a share of the hosting fees for building up within their own areas. It also concludes that due to a valuable tax, which I find very interesting, rural society will become a share or a part of it. It is an incentive to build up a job that is different from that of rural society. Farming is mostly made up of real estate taxes and an expansive force. In fact, any other activity that cannot produce such income is lacking in the local community. These companies pay all taxes directly to the state and don't contribute anything to the community. I feel that there is a need for us to consider that system changes in the way that functions bring something to the surrounding community, give it up directly, not through the public, which may then be a threshold or a bug, to build up operations in the country. This is especially true when we look to the future, as government laws do. It takes five years in advance. We often have to think a little further, for example. with regard to the oil charge. It is very good to go to that taxation to achieve the objective of the Paris meeting, but we also need to think about technological progress. It is not even that far away until energy sources such as oil and coal and gas, etc. will become expensive to other sources of energy that problems resolve spontaneously. The sooner we get to that place, the better. Then we're totally free of this problem. It generates certain incentives, not just taxes, but incentives for innovation, to get to that point, instead of necessarily funding it with taxes on carbon products, because energy producers are now in a position to have funding for innovation in energy generation. But they do not. They hang on the energy resources they have and make full use of them, although the cost of society is immense. We may have some effect on this by working with them in innovation, even with the carbon bill in some way, which may return, as other chapters here, to innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u34	A respectable president. Now we are discussing the second major political issue, which is naturally directly related to what we talked about yesterday, i.e. Now we're discussing how we're going to raise our income to do what we think about society. I'm glad there's some down there. Today, members of Parliament have discussed what it is, a macropolitic matter. I miss it very often when we're dealing with government income. At times, people may assume that they want a tax system in a certain way, wanting a certain amount of money, is some special interest for certain political parties and political groups. It's not like that. We all want to have the best - equipped community in which we live. To live up to this, you need to make money. There are various comments in the discussion, both in this Assembly Hall and outside the walls of this house. There's something here. They were talking about a high tax rate in Iceland based on gross domestic product. In this regard, we Icelanders are reported to be in third place after Dana and Sweden, taking into account the cost of pension. I have two things to check on. First, where else should we be but among the northern countries? Are we not always talking about the fact that we want to be a welfare community, an ethnic welfare society in the spirit of its best interests? Where on earth should we be on this list if not there? However, and that's my other remark, I think it's simply not right. It's in terms of pension fees. Pension costs are not taxes. No matter how we turn it, we draw it into our world scene, which must depend on a policy on taxes, or not, pension costs are not taxes. We have a fund collection system. We pay in the pension fund, we invest in future pension incomes. And tax pay, because tax pay is made for state funds, as well as for the local community. These are collections, not a system, as is the case in many parts of the world. The deposit in the pension fund prevents more taxes later, but it would come to them if none were in these funds. Making up the image of taking tax and pension fees, bringing them together and putting in a table that puts us in somewhere, we end up in a place we still get, despite all we want to be on, is simply a wrong image to paint up. This is a check for payment later. We who talk at times, in campaign campaigns, when we talk to our clients, about the welfare community we want to see here should ask us more serious questions about this and how the tax collection is actually done in this country compared to any other country. If we take out the pension fee, where are we? That is a question we should consider. Perhaps that is why no infrastructure has been, as it were, in the last few years. Perhaps that is why the National Hospital and other institutions may have to run into less money than comparable institutions elsewhere. Perhaps that is why we simply do not have the same tax system that we would like to compare with. It is as if we were afraid to get up when it comes to earning money. We say A: We want the North American welfare system, we're the best and best in the world with it, but we don't have the courage to say B: we want these revenues to do something about it. I see that once again, there's the highest place in the world. Secretary of finance not in the hall. I'm going to take it personally. Every time I want to have a word with him, he's somewhere else. But I'm not going to cry. I think we're going to have a lot of conversations about the budget bill sitting at the top. The secretary of the finance of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson. That's a lot of words you have to have in your head. But, as yesterday's, I would like to express a certain disappointment with the budget bill being presented. It's kind of finished. I think we need to think seriously about how we can contribute some piece of paper to make sure it's a baseless budget when it's missing and fell into it. You need to fill the picture. They need to explain how to do all kinds of things that the General has agreed to. This financial bill, if it were a solution to a basic math thing, would have gotten a fail-grade. It's very simple. You can't come to your bank and say, "I have this and that lot of money to spend every month, but the reason is because I don't take all the money I'm going to spend on anyway. It's not working. It's disappointing to the top. The minister of finance should not have done better work. He can't - can I tell him? I need to say the highest. Secretary of finance again?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u35	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u36	[[Take it up: always.]] Always. Thank you. V.E.G. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister cannot simply shield himself from the fact that these are some approved ones that the Allied council did and had nothing to do with him. It is not relevant to the Commission to what the legislatures agree. Went to the top. The secretary of the budget, Bjarni Benediktsson, of the entire district of election, said, "We're not going to go on this transport program? We are not going to go to the projects that were discussed and agreed on in a transport program? I'd be interested if I had. The Patient's Cost Participation? Where is she on the budget bill? Where are the roofs? Where's the money to put in there? What's going to happen? Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary to tell all these institutions, all these institutions, who are asking for extra money because the interiors have been starving in recent years, institutions in the education system, Land Hospital, Landland Security? What's going to happen? Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary to tell these people other than to bring some pills to them, as he did here from the platform yesterday? Any pills to the president of the state's institutions that they should not be discussing with the media, since the council is in some way passing by? I am part of this council, and I will declare that I feel that in no way am I being overlooked by anyone or anyone else during this council, even though the director of the government can handle her financial situation with the media. I've been the highest, many times. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister has surprising ideas about the nature of the media. It is as if he did not fully discern where we are in our time in this regard. Perhaps he would have done more to listen to these directors before putting on his financial bill than to contribute it half finished with all those loose countries that are missing forever. In many areas, significant incomes are still missing. 131⁄215 billion on a transport program. For the patient's high cost of participation, 1,33/4,1.8 billion. Is it possible to say: These are my baseless budget, but they are of little value because I don't make money for all the expenses we are going to spend? This is simply not acceptable. V.E.G. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister will tell you that we don't spend the same crown twice. If we put X billions in the social security system, we won't put those billions somewhere else. Everything's true. But I'm also going to inform the highest. The secretary of the world of Bjarni Benediktsson that you cannot destroy crowns that you have not acquired. You can't guarantee expenses, but you can't have a bone in your nose to support them. It's simple economics. I think it's all too much of a country for all too many people involved in politics when it comes to earning money. We pretend that this is the most negative thing that can come up, even violence, taxes. It is the means of society to create the best of the system, the environment, the environment that we all live in. It's our education system. It's the health system, the welfare system. There is no room for responsibilities when it comes to earning money when it comes to caring for financial matters. As far as I can see, on the budget bill there's a income supply of over 5 billion bucks, net 5.2 billion, if I get this right. There are things that no doubt pay a fine price. There's an inquisitor for research and development, it's a discount for the stock market in SMEs. I'm going to study these matters. It may not be easy to see that much there is wisdom and good in there, and I will just support it and be the best of it. But when people give up money but still plan to put more money in construction, they need to find income somewhere else. You can't spend money that you don't earn. I miss doing the highest. A financial minister named Bjarni Benediktsson explained to us why he is selling the state funds 5 billion, why he does not find the approval that the law has established in his laws, why he does offer a relatively complete piece of work, but he does so as to sensibly aesthetic show and acquiesces that he is putting in a lax budget. I told them yesterday during a discussion that I thought of this financial bill as a ground for discussion. In some ways, that is good. It is new that financial contributions are not being offered, with details of the individual issues of income and expenses being covered. It is fine to set aside a ground for discussion. But once again, I find out what I was talking about yesterday, which is the responsibility of our senators, both of those on the Senate committees who will discuss these matters and also of the rest of us who are sitting at the council Hall when it comes to accepting changes in the bill. If we get a little finished, it's our job to finish it. Let's do it in the mind of building up the North American welfare community that most of us would if not all spoke about heading for an election. But there are both sides of the coin, both when it comes to earnings and expenses. There is no room for expenses, but when it comes to looking at how to finance these expenses, how to finance the community in which we want to live together, we cannot do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u37	Madam President. The first thing I want to do is say the word. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Francis Proppér of the false criticism of the highest. Secretary of finance for the heads of state's institutions, it surprised me very much. Not at all. Last night I talked to you about a night's stay-up fee. Its value was enough for two caramels, but now for half a quart of soda at a gas station, it's a total of 300 bucks. Of course, it's a pleasure to see the increase, but it raises questions. Why is it not chosen percentage or percentage? We all know that the number of accommodations lasts 10,000 to 70,000 bucks. for the night's house, but less lodging is required. Hence, it is far more reasonable that relative animals contribute more to the State than inexpensive animals. In this regard, we can mention the desire of a community to take a personal share in the stay, which is not a light today. The other question is, What evidence is there that we do not raise the cost of lodging until September 1, 2017? The height, 300 k., above the sums of thousands, or tens of thousands, does not cause an earthquake. With this puzzle, the state funds will be 900 million. K. Next year, 2017. The Gistint account yields 300 million. K. 2017, estimated 2018 1,200 million. K. If the difference, this 900 million. K., put in the table over the effect on the return of the State Fund in the bandorm album, the positive net effect will increase from 1450 million. K. of 2,350 billion. K. It takes less than that. Now it's the highest. The secretary of finance is not answering, so I don't know who will answer these questions. So I'll sit in my own district, South American, the amount we need from a full host fee all year, i.e. That 900 million. K., to three important improvements. First of all, 300 million. K. it is needed to save one of the most important schools of the country from collapse, the gardening school in Whos making, which is the foundation of education and innovation and development in climatic development. Second, this would be enough to provide additional funds for two health institutions near the knees of Southland Health Institutes and Southern Health Institutes in the face of ever - increasing assignments and a decreasing level of service. Third, the increase in the budget for knowledge and college partners in the Southern District, which are fought separately. These are parts of education, innovation, and research that are among the national vitality. Of course, I don't mention it as a real way, because the cost of a bedkeeper is actually spreading in other ways. But I mention these three points explaining what is at stake here. Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was referring, and it is certainly possible, but we've been discussing the obligation to raise money for one to two years and it's not going to work. It is disappointing, therefore, that the lack of financial support is not being taken in tourism, but it is actually part of the budget bill. We must do our part better here in this Council of 146. A discussion here at the council lays the groundwork in the different senators'opinions on funding to a host of important projects. I say, let's see the forest for the trees, boy. Councilmen, for the situation is quite light. There are companies that give us metre and are available. About 1% of those with capital pay are paid up to 44%. The budget, I believe, is 95 billion. About 10% of the population owns about 60% of property in the country. Payers in the two highest income levels are paid half the pay in the country, that is, more than 700 billion that are involved in that population. When these people are talking about spending more money on the community than they are now doing, they remind us that Iceland's micro-organisation is unique. It contains some 330,000 human and business members of a cultural and welfare society on a pair of neighboring countries, all of which are much more populous. That is why it is most natural for us to demand even more tax and tax returns than, for example, is customary in millions of countries. Iceland University costs as much as a university in Norway. It is similar to how the state of the country between 1930 and 1980, in such a way as half a century, ran almost everything, both the services and the mediums of the country. For the sake of society, this has gradually changed with increasing society and changing circumstances. In any case, involvement in Iceland and the State is still a regular feature. There is no need for a tax system to become suspicious of, or deny, that equation and well - being depend on a strong and righteous tax and tax system. The current budget does not properly reflect the needs of society. Reservations turn to what? The budget and the Economic and Business Committee and we senators are required to beat up as much as possible. Finally: This is where a carbon bill has been mentioned and a solution to the discussion about it is very simple. It's to lie down, I don't mention any particular number here, as well as industry fuel and industry resources, i.e. coal, cocktails, tree tiles, electrodes, etc. Everything else is fallacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u38	Madam President. This has been a fine discussion of what we have so far called the bandorum, i.e. There are various reasons for billing. I've found much interesting in the Senate case. Of course, it has been far and wide, not just talking about the exact nature of this bill, since it hangs with the budget and reason to talk about it in that context. There are good things in this mess, some of which I think, while I don't like others as good as it does get. I have to say in the light of what was said before, and it has, of course, been done by a minister, that it's a bill of government leaving, is actually gone, and it is entirely based on her financial plan, and from it is a very little disfellowshipped. That's how the bill was introduced. In fact, this is the bill of an independent class and a modern forwarding party. The result here has also been a great deal of discussion, and I've said that to the budget talk before and before, of course, based on stability, i.e. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - This, on its own, as well as a desire for independence and a desire to reduce taxes, is something that is repeated in itself, i.e. it is repeated in economy, as happened before a crash. A general study report has shown that this is not a good government, no matter what. Secretary of finance has said something like that. This is exactly the same thing that happened here before the collapse, i.e. around certain meetings. Money we now have, except for the certain incomes I mentioned before on the basis of stability or income, is also the income of much of the tourism industry, which is excellent in many ways, not everything, but is also vulnerable if everything goes away and the income may collapse very quickly. The government is validating tax changes which are completely in its spirit, they're not in my spirit, and they're not in the spirit of the left green, that's perfectly clear. Therefore, while we are facing this special time when no government is real or more part of a council, you want to discuss matters a little from the point of view. It has also been said that the council and decisions are in the hands of the council. I still wondered, for example. In view of the transport plan, if that's really the way it is. If it is so that the council's approval is ignored, as is the suggestion, what is the real authority of the council if the authority decides to ignore it completely? I don't know. I have doubts. If there was a more dominant part at a council and it would have been put forward that way, then this dominant part would be expected to stand by this financial bill. Of course I know we've made changes in bill over the years, always, but we're talking about tens of billions, though. I'm not sure that it would be approved in the Ministry of finance if these changes were made. That's why I've wondered what our real power is. Just so I'll stick to the transport plan, we've given it left greens so that the markets of road income will be brought up for the price, and that will give us about Seven billion a year, which is now out of the question. I think we've been one group that specifically proposed a national financial programme, i.e. how we extended our income to meet the expenses the community called. It wasn't something we just wanted. As this has been attributed, most classes promised to make it right. We certainly have different needles for how we do it, but that can't be done without more money. I find it very special when members of Congress feel that they can be neutral, as happened in a single second. A senator earlier, when it is time to take such action. I can't quite figure it out. I've also said and can say it again, it's not a real profit of government funds if it crosses into the latrines, if that's how in all institutions, no, I'm not going to tell everyone, in a very many institutions there's a limp, a accumulated limp, a growing need for money and a problem and has been cut down. It's been cleaned up. In some areas, you can do better. I'm not gonna slow it down. But this is not just because the calls are made out of a lot of community, from educational systems, from health systems, by transportation. It's not just that. When these infrastructures are inexpensive, costs or expenses are being pushed into the future, they are being pushed toward future generations, for this case will not be solved just by this bill or bill next year. But it has to start. There's no waiting. It's a meeting at the General Assembly. It's been a process of stability to pay off debt, of which we all agree, that we should. We're supposed to lower the interest costs of the state's budget. If we sell stocks that come from broken - up camps, we will start to pay off interest or lower the rate of growth. But we cannot just do so, and we cannot invest so much into the future. That's at least My opinion and our opinion of the left green, reflected in our government budget. We've wanted to make real improvements. We're ready to make the money, as I said before. We have suggested that we bring taxes and income to those of the richest community, i.e. if you have very high income and have an average of 3% of the number of responders, wealth taxes that have, for example. over 120 million. K. Pure possessions, but they can be many. We've been talking about taking in our resources, both in electricity and in the fishing road. Despite his position now, these applications, i.e. What he returns to the people, far too little. I once again remind you of the panic talk that everything will go away. Nobody's going that way. But we have to deal with the fishing costs and the electricity tax. And then, of course, we need to stick together to promote the IRS and try to recover something from 80 billion dollars. Preconceived, as the tax attorney has said. There was also a hall on the banks. It is also part of these stability contributions. I have to agree with what. Chairman of the left green, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, regarding the fact that the plans must be made for separation of investments and business banks. Who Can Buy? Do we have to get in here foreign funds, or do we have to keep our pensions investing? We also need to think only about who will come to it. It matters. As already mentioned, the discussion is always focused on the fact that the box is for all of us, the citizens of this community, and is to become a center of well - being. It was the tone that was struck in the campaign. I think we can agree on that. We left green have talked about the tax system being used to balance people's status with what it is, whether we discuss the 6,000 children of our lack, as the UNICEF introduced us in January, or whether we are talking about the young people who want to choose whether they will rent or buy because they are not as terrestrial as older generations may have chosen to be, i.e. buying possessions is a lot less important for young people, and especially when they start to live, but for that, there is, of course, a healthy tenet. We need to make sure that it is possible. We also need to make money for the sake of the state's funds to consider those who may be lenient and who are in the community. These have been called older citizens and cripples. There are also very poor - income workers, workers, who have little to do with money. It must also be met through the system. It is possible without being overturned or dejected, as is often said when promotions occur, much of what is being added to the health and other matters and schools, we know. There are prices and because of increases in pay. It's incredibly small on the other side of the business. Much too small. Madam President. I've been trying to handle the budget bill, but I've only been holding hands with this bandorm. What I might most want to do is this price update on a dollar's taxes and pay. In itself, I am content to exceed inflation. 5% was reported, 4.7% here. I'd like to see it go to 5%. I think it's good. It also referred to the carbon account, as well as the other. I agree with the discussion that asked for it to be raised, and I have raised it properly to meet the Paris Convention and to stand on your feet as a nation, a rich nation. And there was talk of an increase in the host tax. The rural population has been calling high for new income stocks. Of course, they need to care for their own infrastructures, which they do not receive from the fund and that they may earn directly, not directly, from the traveller, but from the traveller. There are many combinations of communities. I can think of a group of people who come to work at a high-resurrection time, don't have a lawhouse, and as a result, the taxes go out of society, they have a flow that may somehow yield to institutions or businesses within the community that, in some way, earn themselves to the community. But there is an enormous sensitivity and a vast area that has come in contact with them. magazines in their affairs about drainage and other matters beyond their control. Such rural areas need income taxes improved. We talked about getting some of the bedside fees. I think it needs to be discussed in the Economic and Business Committee, that it doesn't go directly to the state funds. We also wanted to take money through return charges. In view of the situation today, I think it's the best thing to do. All I want to do is call attention to 3,10 nursing costs and the household costs, just the blueest because it's always the time running away from you. The first part is very good to me. The high cost of household involvement in nursing homes is being prevented from increasing because of a mate's absence. But for the rest, this comes and it's happened before. In view of how good the situation is, we need to examine it. Here, again, there is a license to protect the elderly'financial resources to cover the expenses of nursing for the elderly. The sea is not meant to survive the cost of operating. He's supposed to be a new building fund, and I think we need to make sure that there's some money in that fund, because ahead of us is the huge structure of a nursing home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u39	One newly elected senator. 9th. Smoke. For example, Alfreðsdóttir Alfredd's daughter, was absent at a meeting when her campaign was approved. I'd like to welcome her to the council. It will now sign a pledge to the Constitution on Article 2. Congress. I'm going to ask the General's office manager to move it. A senator's pledge to sign.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u40	Lilja Alfreðsdóttir has now signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u41	V.E.G. President. We will discuss various basic budgets for 2017. As shown in a review of a developed bill, its main contents include that child improvement budgets will be increased in accordance with the terms of financial programmes and will be implemented during the pressures of public remuneration in 2017. The bill shows that the temporary calculation of growth reforms will be extended by one year apart from the cut-offs that increase by 12.5% so that interest expenditures remain unchanged from the budget. In the advance group, the change in calculations and the grounds for child reform in the campaign suggested that child support be earmarked to each child and greatly enlarged. This was part of a tax system change proposed in a medical committee report that recently led to its decision. In addition, we talked to the candidates about changing tax priorities that were lower tax taxes to the middle class and to those who have less income and those higher paid higher percentages of taxes. Actually, it's still more complicated than this, because it's a major system change, including a turning point. about system changes in personality discounts and changes in growth reform systems. We feel that it is important that these factors be investigated in the context of financial matters. On the other hand, we are now at a special milestone, where the work programme and the bill we discuss this time. So it is the work of a new government, no matter who it may be, to shape policies on the government's taxes. I think and I recall that every class has spoken of the importance of infrastructure in our fine community in a campaign campaign. In addition, the importance of maintaining stability here was said to use increased financial resources for building up. We hear from all the news that there is no more money for infrastructure, including Health, education, transportation, pension, and so forth. In the advance group, we talked about the importance of promoting health institutions in the country and had to strengthen them and strengthen them for the unity that has been practiced in recent years. We would have bigger institutions that could carry out special projects. For example, there is a possibility that Aranesp could further promote replacement and female activities. By doing so, you might be able to relieve the stress of a land hospital ◯ A university hospital. In addition, we have powerful health institutions around the capital area that could accept some of the roles being carried out in a land hospital. As many news reports have brought, the National Hospital is often overcrowded with patients, under pressure from staff as there is a great deal of money in clinics around the capital area. However, despite this, more money is needed into the health system, and it has been done in the past few years, and a financial program is being added. Once large institutions have gone through a difficult period of business, it takes time to reverse difficult developments. But we come to the point again and again that we need to go to health-care policies in order to assess and determine the services to be performed in many health institutions in many parts of the country. Various factors, such as distances, transportation, age combinations, and other relevant factors, need to be taken into account. In this policy, the need for financial support has to be identified and taken into consideration by various sectoral organisations in this context. This bill also discusses the increase in host tax. It is necessary to raise funds through the tourism service, which is a substantial raise of crowns, a triple for each sale of a stock market unit from September 1, 2017. Since the fact that the bill was submitted, several small operators have expressed concern that this is a fixed dollar raise that could affect their business, especially those who offer inexpensive lodging, and that it would even be more reasonable to believe that there was a certain percentage increase in this context, i.e. of the provided accommodations. In addition to this, policies need to be implemented for tourism. We need more money for building up. Many of us advanceers have been impressed with their return to the country, which we believe is an efficient way of reaching money into the seminar. In addition, parking costs could be checked at tourist locations. Sports modeling is important, and part of these expenditures should be considered in our opinion to rewind to the rural communities for the development of transports there. In terms of the increase in income in the elderly, I don't quite know if it's the right way that there's only one amount per person, no matter what their salary. We may have different opinions about this, but it is still an extension of temporary regulations that say that the elderly's labour fund is permitted to protect money from the cost of nursing care for the elderly. Here we come back to the same thing, we need policy in the category, and it's just as well under health policy where these classes are intertwined. In the second part of the talk, I have to discuss only things that come into the budget, social security, where I was their spokesman for trouble. A welfare committee when it passed through the council and removed a few weeks ago. An additional 11.1 billion is now being said into the social security system, so it can't be said that nothing is being done. The changes made at the time. The well - being committee and the majority of members of Congress raised single older citizens to 280 of you. K. of January 1, 2017 and your 300. of January 1, 2018. The same can be said of microbubbles who have special progressive supplements. However, there is only a system change in older people's affairs where the pay groups are united, one for three years, and a cent against a centenarian impairment is terminated. Sadly, this change was not achieved in micro-germs in which peace was not reached between the Quantum Community and the State, but I hope that it will result in the case as soon as possible, because there is a significant system change. Then there must be continued on a journey that has been made, to give more to the group of lawsuits, and to continue. Finally, all I can do is talk only about the government's income and the discussion about making business in the country. In this country, there are many different types of designs, many of which live under very different conditions of management. We have huge structures that can afford to pay the price set up and have spent the past few years while we have small and medium-sized structures that can afford it less and can't handle it. The concentration of the crown is also affected by these articles, so the survival of small and mediumsized persons in particular has been weakened in recent months. This is the most swinging aspect of the article. Surely, all of us would agree that we want to have a wide variety of structures in our country in the scattered areas of the land. Many of these are the most populated towns in many parts of the country and are important to them, so their different circumstances need to be taken into account. It is now that when we're dealing with the resource costs, I think it's time to define the concept of a resource, that's been done to some extent, and to share the costs with other countries using the resources of the country. That would be a fair way. With these words I will finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u42	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Here is a very peculiar discussion with unusual political conditions, which are in the process that the head of finance for the Management Board brings up a income bill to the government's budget, which has actually gone away. As we have seen, members of the Parliament have a number of problems, so you listen very carefully to how people act in the conversation and what it is really like to say, because we cannot normally expect or assume that people will fall in the usual ways. For this reason, I would like to ask him why. First of all, a senator on matters of opinion that have come up with a transport strategy. Congress officials of the Northwestern District have agreed to step forward and claim that they want much clearer lines in terms of animal funeral tunnels. Hv. A senator is from the very district of district, so I ask her and because of the problem. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, chairman of the budget board, has said that the Minister's budget is a kind of foundation, and then it needs to be built, even if we are in a position of some sort in time. I want to ask you why. The senator's handling of this particular matter, this specific procedure, and the rest of the transport program, i.e. The changes made by all of us at our last council were agreed to support and not just because there were elections at hand, but because we know that, and especially those in the hosting elections, how screaming the need is on the increase in country maintenance for both the development of employment and the development of daily life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u43	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Senator Svandís Svavarsdóttir for the counter-sponsored. It's true what she says I am. Senator of the Northwestern district. In addition to other humans, members of the body have come to realize why. Councilmen of the district have stepped forward and expressed concern over the implementation of animal tunnels. As mentioned in last night's news, you have a why. Councilmen of the district had a conversation with members of the Fourth Western Union, where we concluded our requirement that animal tunnels be established and are fully united among all. The Synod's members of the district of convening that project will be on schedule, with animal soil tunnels as well as other projects being carried out in a transport program at the highest level. The Minister of the Interior made room for the council, so he was present with a minister of his own and therefore is not an arrangement for change. On the other hand, it is so like a whale. A senator says that there is a great need. We have roads that need maintenance. I have full faith in what to do. A legal committee will find ways to deal with this. The Budget and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd like to ask her to have it a little clearer. I'd like to pray. A senator to answer if she believes that the changes made by a body of Congress were agreed to a transport program that was worth sticking to and whether we should reimburse it, this council that is not responsible for any project, to finance a process of transport on the current budget and into the Union so-called for the Economic and Business Committee. I'm asking why. A senator will be willing to be among the members of the council members who will try to fulfill our congregational duties and remind all of us that we are the project and not any other people; we cannot refer to any government because she just sits there because she can't help and we have to take responsibility for this all the way. I'd like to ask you, too. A senator on health matters because she speaks of the need to do better. I think that we all agree on that, and we've all been going along for the election and talking about our being at a critical moment with the health system, that there has to be more money to be paid. Now it's time that no one can refer to the future when it comes to voting on a budget bill or on a income collection bill. So I ask why. A senator would consider it worth one Mass to see if we have a chance to strengthen the financial bases of the state to do better with the Icelandic health system than the next year's financial bill, 2017. I'd like to remind her of that. A senator and minister, Harðardóttir Hardardddóttir, sat by the state financial program that is the straitjacket we're stuck with.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u45	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir again and again for a very thorough answer. I'll try to do my best. Hv. A senator asked for a clear answer on income and on animal tunnels, so I trust that everyone will die. Senators on hold. The budget and the what. A financial and business committee will do their best to find funds and ways to work on the future, whether it is transport, health, or other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u46	Madam President. Thank you for the good discussions that have been going on today. I would like to point out that corruption exists in two ways. On one hand, the form of corruption, which was a great deal of talk for elections in which people deliberately do wrong, in the shelter of their office, or in secret. The other forms focus on the bill that is discussed today and on the budget bill set out yesterday and then for discussion. This form has been called institutional corruption and is expressed when the Agency's purpose is corrupted, the Agency itself is unable to perform its role because of internal or external influences. Such corruption is not a fault for anyone, but it does matter that it is removed. The lack of money, the wide variety of extramarital culture, and the faulty rule of action lead to an increase in the role of the Contestant watch, e.g. not investigating the key sectors of the economy, that transport is a lie, that the National Guard has to place one third of its fleet, and that the Southland police cannot fit the people who visit our natural spheres properly. Then the surgeon general has been reluctant to record just how many affemines are driving, the Habitat could not self-employ the calculation of various economics, and so on, in the streets. It has also been discussed how environmental issues are replaced by other viewpoints, even when there is considerable environmental damage. When this bill is examined in the light of the fact that there is a sacrifice on the altar of low tax policy. While most of our control countries increase greenhouse gas expenditures and set higher budgets in the environment of cars, this bill reduces the cost of economic incentives to pollute more and drive unsecured cars. Remuneration sources to carbon dioxide emissions from factories do not contribute in any way to the object that the Paris meeting is respected, as noted in the case. The senators of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter earlier today. After all, there is such a national forecasting that it is unknown in any other way than it almost never works out. President. My purpose in enforcing these many examples of the failure of the system is not to allow the honor of the institutions involved. My purpose is also not to protect institutions that are not to be considered. The purpose is to try to make us think that there is much to it, and the financial policy of the State is the foundation of everything that is wrong. We at this assembly need to consider this bill not only as a well-designed matter but also as a symbol of a system of government that cannot perform its function. This radical corruption is no one's fault, but we need to band together to tackle it. We need to make clearer work, better rules, fewer reserves, and a higher number of nails. We need to learn to do more with less, increased production, and efficiency, but we never lose sight of who should benefit from that work. In general, it can be said of both this bill and the budget bill that it best portrays an attitude that is out - of - date, an attitude that leads to a loss of opportunities in a job market, undermines the credibility of the management system, and leaves the poor, the elderly, the desperate, and various other minorities in the community with little hope. My question is, Is our objective here to create a good society for money or to create a good society for people? These goals are compatible, they can be reached at the same time, and even we know that a powerful economy is the basis for good well - being, but it is not to be seen in these bills, unfortunately. This tapecries itself through the code of laws and leaves the trail of reminders on what can be done better. Let's change this, Madam President. Let's change this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u47	A respectable president. It has become a strange burden at the Assembly Hall to object to virgin talks. I just listen so often with attention to what is happening. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy that I didn't think it could have been a virgin. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of simple questions, yet fundamental, questions are raised by his discussion on fundamental matters. He threw out an old scheme and a new one, which is for each system. Are we creating a good society for the funding or a good community for the people? It can go together, says why. A senator, and to do so, but we sometimes lose sight of it, are too busy with the columns, and forget that there are people with feelings and expectations, hopes and desires, days and nights out there who have assigned us the precious task of caring for their well - being and prospects for the future. Hv. A senator mentioned that on this bill and both primary projections, we may be leaving people and groups behind. Hv. A senator named the elderly, the poor, and the poor. I'm afraid, as we know, Iceland is not a credit to the situation of poverty in the community. In Iceland there are 6,000 poor children who may be the only thing we should be talking about, eliminating that poverty. This should be our first act because it brings shame to all of us. Because of it. A senator was here with his virgin talk, so I would like to congratulate him on her and ask him a simple question: How are we now to prevent us from leaving people behind?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u48	Madam President. Thank you for this fine question. I don't have one answer. The main theme of what I said before was that there is a great possibility to do more with less, as Richard Buckminster Fuller spoke of in his day, that you can learn to make better use of the money, to build better regulations, and to produce efficiency within institutions that are not known to the present day. That's really a little bit more until we get to the question about income gains. I have a hunch. A senator is referring to this. There we may need to adjust our thinking. We have one of the highest tax rates in the world when it comes to earning people. We also have one of the lowest taxes in OECD countries when it comes to companies. We know that a high tax rate in a business is not good either. We have to find some balance in the economy, and that doesn't depend on taxation. But we need to solve all these problems. The way we do it is something we will handle in the next few days, weeks, months, and years, and I thank you only for having a share with you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u49	President. Thank you. A senator's answers and delight to communicate with him on these basics. I think maybe there's some extraordinary expectations for this newly elected council, just because it's so unusual, because it's unusual, and because we're in a position we haven't been in for decades, to have the task that the council has to complete without the precise scope of more things and smaller things. I'll find at least to the great responsibility of society in terms of having a clear vision. We who are in politics tend to do so more often than not mention terms such as a complete approach, clear rule, increased efficiency, and greater production. Then I'm afraid we've stopped thinking about society for people, that we're just thinking about a community for the economics that, of course, includes people. Yet, as noted, it is so memorable, and we must never forget it, in the wake of the collapse that many economic landmarks were good. We saw a growth that marked the development, the economy, while a malignant change in a population that could have been healthy but had fallen apart. I'm not asking why. A senator on the answer to these questions may rather join with me, that we here on this newly formed and newly elected council agree to never forget that we are doing this for society and for the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u50	Madam President. Thank you again for that. That's a good subject. This is an unusual situation in which we are in. We're getting them into some kind of angerlessness. There is no specific support that has been established by the previous council, but I see on that occasion. In the face of confusion, opportunities and opportunities are often on the edge of the chaos, opportunities to achieve viewpoints that usually do not work together, which people think even deliberately or unintentionally. We need to remember that behind each excel-tail there are people. There are people behind all the benefits. We're looking at numbers like the Gii factor showing Iceland's awesome good condition in the context of other countries of the world. However, there is evidence to suggest that the measurement could be wrong, that something is missing in that size, that it somehow lacks to reevaluate the methodology. What I suggest is that we make it very specific to see how all society's institutions work, try to find ways to make them better, so that they serve the people better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u51	Madam President. We continue to discuss the basis for the budget bill for 2017. This discussion has shown many things that have been very good. We talk a lot about the need for government income to be guaranteed. That, of course, is the basis why we can properly run this community. I believe that over the past three years, we have missed opportunities to further strengthen the position of government funds and income, that we could have a better supply now to meet various factors that have been made, in the bases of society, whether it is health, education, the infrastructure, the transportation or the support of the public insurance system, and in the interest of those who enjoy it and live with it. I believe that not having made a decision to earn money by coming back to the country was a huge mistake, that we should have had the courage to go to return fees right away. We could have set them off from the season of the year to attract tourists during the winter, to be less expensive at that time. By the time of her divorce in 2013, that government had been looking at income pay on return, but it reached only a very low host fee of 100 bucks. This bill speaks of raising it to 300 bucks. They are still a drop in the ocean, compared with what needs to be done in the infrastructure. This is an enormous amount of money in this regard. It is also very important that rural communities receive some income from the large number of tourists who come to the country so that they can each in their territory build up the infrastructure and meet the intimidation that is certainly accompanied by increasing tourist flows. Farmers must make some money to build and improve their infrastructure. We left greens have stressed that it will be revised and that our rural communities will receive a share of the income, e.g. coming in with the checkout fee. In this bill, there's no way that humans have yet the will or the authority to impose charges. It is said that they can reduce tourism to the country. If we are not prepared to receive all these people because of the fact that the infrastructure is giving itself as much as it does, is it not all right? I don't believe in coming charges, if we talk about 1,000 bucks. on each flight ticket, through or out, anyone will be disturbed by the arrival of the country. It's the income that's been wasted for the past three years. I'm just hoping that the government that will be here and the council will have the courage to bring in their charges. Increase of the innkeeper's fee to 300 bucks. does not count until September 1 next year, so there is not a lot of money that comes from it before the next budget year. I also think it's very important that we as a community get along with the income raise. There has always been bad talk about all the taxation, as if it were from the wicked, that the public is being myeloaborated, and it is associated with bad left men who want evil to the public and are trying to extract from their pockets and from their wages as much as possible to put them in a pet project. It's been swamped over the years. We left men may have been poor enough to have the courage to speak frankly about the reflection of taxes in the good society, good welfare systems, good education systems, and good equipment for our aged and young people. They are reflected in it all. I think people are becoming aware of this and realize it. Now that we're discussing these things, and when there's much constipation in the development of the government, these taxes need to be used to achieve their effectiveness in the building of a health system called by the majority of Icelanders. They do not fall out of the heavens, they do not bring in monopolies, and they do not come because they may become more money if there are more tourists and something falls into existence, all to hope and hope. We cannot run our community, so it is by chance whether we can earn enough money to live up to it. It must be safe and secure from income stocks so we can run this community. And then we can always talk about some projects that I don't want to call pet projects, but there are different kinds of newest social, state, or we as a community decide to do each time, whether it's the expansion of Istavia, the airport, the Cheflavík Airport e.g., or whether it's going on major projects that could normally be asked, which is something that we can push ahead of us. But we cannot constantly pull our feet into situations that concern every individual, such as the health and education systems. It was a big mistake by reducing the age of those who have access to literature in high schools and schools for 25 years, that was a huge mistake. And with the cutoffs that the high schools and universities have been facing, it is not to bet on the future, on young people, and on that, with increasing education, we become a nation more sustainable and have more potential to support ourselves under different circumstances and to earn money in society. We are to invest in education because it returns. It's a long-term investment that comes back. We are to invest so that everyone has access to education, not just the rich and more material, as the steering wheel has been, directly and indirectly, those 25 years of age can only attend a private school that costs more. People who have been released from school for some reason, because of family circumstances and so forth, need, like people. In the country, to decide whether to move out of the country, since high school is no longer available or a possibility of finishing high school in their hometowns. The reduction in high school values is a highly populated procedure that I believe should be reversed and discontinued, and a new government should have it one of its first actions. Emergency calls are coming from around the world. We heard from the news last night that there was a distress call from State Hall. I think that all of us in here have strong nerves for the National Guard because it plays a major role in law enforcement and rescue services at sea and in securing the safety of sailors. It is a terrible idea that only one of the next year can be completed based on what the budget looks like and that the rescue helicopter cannot be held outside 20 miles except for seven to eight months. Are we as a rich nation, who have built all of us on the prospect of having a powerful sea route and a seafaring pursuit, at the point where we are going to see that our territory has a means of money? We can't watch it. I believe that men will show the will of the money debate and we'll raise the budget to make it right. There was a request of 300 million. K. to keep seawater that language. They didn't get caught. This has been the case since 2010, of course, when the years of collapse were difficult, when they had to rent out their ships in the Mediterranean to earn money. We cannot forever give off a discount by having a high - quality land guard that plays an important role for our sailors and the rest of the country, guaranteeing safety at sea, and also having a surveillance role on our land weekend. I know that many people believe that going on a so - called auction will save everything. Then we're putting our resources in the marketplace, and those who offer the highest could get that access, which means that their income is guaranteed, i.e. that our sea resource can be placed in the marketplace, and thus we can earn a lot of money that comes back to society. The way I see it, I don't think that the resources in the ocean are just for earning money. It's all our share. It also matters how it's new, whether it's only the largest and most productive fishing companies in the country that have the highest priority when it comes to offering, because it's the money, it's the access to the banking system, and there's a chance to offer the most. It's just that way. If we're not going to watch the community show, nothing to look at, nothing to look at the rights of the people who've built their way on the seabed for decades and from the centuries, if we're going to put it totally aside and put it in market squares, then we're not a community. If so, we are thinking only a short time about making a lot of money and trying to make a living on few people. The expansion in the fishing industry has been increasing and is increasing, among those in the hook - up system and those in the large system called. I say that if you look at it this way that for a short time you can get a higher amount of this system, we're looking at an even greater long - term discrepancy. There are even fewer incomes from the sea source. I find that income and employment of our marine resources are widely distributed beyond the largest companies that would benefit most from volunteering. Others would slowly fall off the train, and then our land would not be visible to our eyes. I've talked about that part of our resources can go to rent, but never all the resources as some have spoken to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u52	President. We will discuss a bill to correct the various criteria of a bill for budgeting for 2017, far off under the political nickname of the bandworm. I'm going to stay with it here. Before we discuss the details and the individual aspects of the bill, I don't think we'll be able to avoid subtracting the political and political context in which the subject is presented. Both the budget bill and the income collection bill are based on the basis of a government budget that has lost more part in the General Assembly. It was a matter of Congress in its own time that made it a matter of forwardness and an independent party against the votes of the then-to-be inaugural government that warned against this vote specifically that in the national budget, it would really be intended that the infrastructure of society, road systems, telecommunication, health, education and welfare, would all be starving for the future, i.e. The financial program such as this did not bring the sure position of these factors to the future. All right. According to the government's law on public financial matters, this document was submitted by the government, which is an enormous political arrangement. It's policy and political because when it comes down to it, maybe the biggest politics is where we want to put the money, how we want to sort it, then how we want to get them, how much, etc. So all of us here need to be alert to the discussion that there is no opposition here. There's nobody here in the board of directors either. We are talking about a document based on a government that was, a body of Congress that has lost its commission from voters, i.e. That much is no longer there. We need to remember this because this involves our own responsibility. Then I am referring not only to those who had doubts about the financial program back then but to all the members of the Parliament who are elected at the Council, and especially to those not here when we agreed on these grounds, both the government and the material political grounds that were fundamental to them. They are in a position to lay the groundwork for self - evaluation. It is not that a national financial program proposed by the then existing government will take away all of us who are our democratic rights, our democratic obligation, to discuss the priorities of funds into our community and to discuss revenues to cover those expenses. That's what we're supposed to do. This is what I say, a respectable president, and I want to take special precautions because I felt that in my discussion, people would speak as if the budget was cut down, as if it were almost like the laws of nature, and everything that would follow would have to be according to the laws of nature. The lawgiver has this position of making laws. The Lawgiver also has a position to be able and to plan for the State's financial situation. We have the authority, the responsibility, the authority, the authority, the duty to care for it, and we need to do so without pointing to the boundaries that others have set. If we're okay with that frame, it's fine, but we need to recognize that the question lies in the air. She needs an answer. In the left movement, we received a vote against the government budget at the time and do not consider ourselves in that sense bound by the premise and political vision there. Therefore, as shown in the campaign, we feel the need to do better than it did in the woods, in the medical system, in education systems. At the same time, we face it, and we are not made to look beyond it, that to make money. Now it became known during the last term that at the end of the last term, there became a very unusual political situation in many respects when the government of Sigmundur, son of Davíð, Gunnlaugsson, was removed in a very unusual situation, and the government of the Sigurður of the son of Ingi, son of Jóhannsson, responded and was determined to speed up elections. That's why we're here in this weird situation. Then the assembly joined together. It was a pleasure to experience the mood at the General Assembly that we agreed on, on the board and on smaller things -- and this was always heard less than the conflict, that all of us are here to talk about the conflict - we agreed on it, the government and the majority of our groups, to build our work on business, and to complete big, difficult matters by offering good things and by trying to get a common transphere movement into the light of the situation. We did so in a number of cases, in changes to the judicial system, to foreigners, to affairs that were relevant to housing, and to other matters. We did the last, but most important, when it came to one fundamental part of the Icelandic road system, which is simply how we're going to make sure that people are able to move around in this rural and large country that is also going to be a handsome and ambitious host, who intends to be such a handsome and ambitious host of people that he intends to build a lot of his economy on this new industry, which is to be a host who is behind the name, who takes the people, does well, does it well, professionally, does it in respect for society, shows respect for its infrastructure, and most not least for the respect for its culture and nature. Part of doing this well is having an interior we don't have to be ashamed of, have a road system that we don't have to be ashamed of, and, perhaps most important, is having a road system that isn't dangerous to people's lives. Sadly, that is the reality that we have become increasingly aware of. The road system in Iceland is in a position where the road manager says it's just going down. It is not enough that we are putting enough money into new ventures; rather, we do not maintain a sense of maintenance, so we really suffer because of neglect. This is very serious. It is much more serious based on local markets, job development and job development, where rural communities are higher than they were depending on various cohesion, sector bigger, people have to be able to communicate, etc. Most important, it is tourism. A travel service in a community that's going to take 1.8 million tourists this year is not going to be appropriate for many more years that it actually costs casualties, that it's exactly the way it is. We have to face the fact that we're neglecting the road system, and it's happening because it's uncertain, people get involved in accidents, we have dozens of single bridges just to form in Southland, which is simply not acceptable in a society that's about to give up being a host in such a country as Iceland. Because of all this reasoning, and I don't think anyone would object, and in that political climate that reigned in spring and fall, we made a parapolitically decision to agree to put more money in the rest of the country. We, the representatives of the Allied Environment and Transport Committee, held here talks, the one here and others. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, member of the Independence Party in the Southern District, was one of the less successful allies in strengthening a transport program. Hv. A member of the forward party and then chairman of the Committee, Höskuldur Þórhallsson, was also with us, the daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, the former senator, Róbert Marshall, and others. We all agreed, and we were particularly proud when we on the committee managed to back up the plan as it was called by ensuring the vote of everyone in the Senate Hall with the plan. Everyone's votes at the Hall not only meant the votes of those who were on this side of the hall but also of those who sat here, including the highest. Minister of Bjarni Benediktsson and Supreme Court. Minister of Olöfu Nordal, all the Ministers who were participants in the current government government, they agreed to support the changing transport programme. I challenge the current council to take that decision seriously. It is important for the political credibility of Iceland that we now love that it means something to mean something by, not just in the power of the greater part, to reach a conclusion, but that we may do a particularly much by reaching a parapolitan position on big issues. Such decisions should be even more important to us than other decisions. I realize it's big numbers. I realize it's 11 or 13 billion depending on how you figure it and what you're going to say that has to be financed at some point for the next year. This is quite a subject that the Council has agreed on and a subject that the General Assembly has even agreed on by all the elected votes of the senators in a Senate hall at the time when our transport and transportation systems really need. That's exactly what we're supposed to be doing here. I have hoped that we will make every effort to make this happen by providing it in a responsible way too. Here the situation of the individual Kingdom institutions has only been made clear in the discussion. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir mentioned her. It's an old story and a new story we all know when the budget comes up to 1st. that the position of the individual Kingdom agencies is then under extensive discussion. But we cannot look away, a respectable president, when the director of a Land Hospital of University Hospital speaks of disasters. We cannot allow ourselves to be exalted. The financial and economic minister made it easy for yesterday to discuss it. This group of paintings is in the position that over 80,000 Icelanders signed a petition to us all to come together and stress our hospital, health issues all over the country because of that, a respectable president, that we really think I'm going to miss the train if we don't do this. It is thus by means of a valuable service and system, such as the medical system, that if the neglect comes up too long, and we know that these sins are very long - term, the maintenance that has been years, and in some instances for decades, before a crash, it will even chew within these systems so that it may be very difficult to rebuild them. There is a great responsibility for us, and especially for those who are contemplating the possible formation of majority government here in Iceland. The best projects are to provide these systems for protection. We have to. If we're thinking that we're here about something other than dealing with a health and education system for Iceland, for our community, then we're wrong. Then we should turn to something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-08-3.u53	Madam President. Much has been said about the emphasis shown in budgets and on the bill discussed here. I'm not going to reenact the trends in education and health systems that I believe are needed to deal with, and it seems to me at all discussions that budget doesn't. I would especially like to take that into consideration. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy said in his sparkling virgin speech that reminded us that a community is for people, not money, so we need to find a balance between them. Though this name be called their money, the sheep are for the people of the land; they are not for the money. Because I'm new here, I'm coming to the table if I didn't agree with the programs that are being discussed. I inherited them from the previous council. The two programs that will be considered in this discussion are a national budget and a transport plan. I have to admit that I don't understand why these two programs, both of which, based on the Senate plan of the last council, one was adopted in August and the other in October, are not at all at the same level. I feel like I'm a straitjacket, like a whale. paritaprevir The Svandís of Svavarsdóttir spoke up earlier. That's what we're supposed to do. It puts us in a very tight legal frame, so stiff that I ask myself, "Is the council overexposed to the executives, whether or not we are really in the position that the Council's Fundament Authority is restricted by a government agency that is attending its office here? ' While we're such a rigid national financial programme, while the frame is as rigid as possible, a transport plan is adopted here two months ago. It was a election in the belief that the construction of infrastructure would be under attack, a road system that we rely on, not just to get in place, but to support its success, so safety is not threatened. This transport program is not available because it was approved only by this no longer operating council. Now we're supposed to take it in and process it as much as we can. Madam President. I don't understand this difference. I don't understand how the other plan can be as good as sacred while the other is a light guide that we can have behind our ear. I'd like to look in this bill to correct the various criteria of the bill for the budget year and look at it, not the big picture, but the lice. The first is the change planned for postproduction fees. Many of these changes are thoroughly and effectively supported, e.g. quotes a worldwide market price on lead to justify the reduction in emissions of cyanide tanks. But then, as with Section 32. the bill that suggests that golf cart tyres will be reserved from recycling fees. It seems to me that no member of the Committee is sitting in the hall right now, which is unfortunate, it would have been nice to be able to direct my words straight to the point. Committee members, but I hope they'll be watching the discussion somewhere else in the house. I ask myself, " Do golf carts have qualities that they don't farm, they don't have to return them to recycling, unlike any other tirebrows? ' Or if we're suggesting smaller tires, these aren't the largest tires produced, they're the exception of a recycling fee, and I'm asking if you can't look at more tire bars. There are now rubber bikes under bicycles, e.g. It would rhyme with the emphasis on increasing the role of eco-friendly transport. And then there's bicycle bars under baby carriages. I'll bet that's the same as you under the golf carts. But I admit, Madam President, that I'm not a great golf fan, I've never played that sport, so I don't know exactly how the pot is finished. There may be someone on the economy and business committee better inside the golf sport than me and possibly the highest. The Minister's better acquainted than I know him. The other thing I'd like to consider is a second price, the price of equipment. Forty-one-one-five-five. par. The bill is suggested to cancel the equipment charge. It is explained in the following words, by permission of the president: ▪ Iceland's Free Association Association Association has decided to record a general social fee that will replace the cost of equipment. There is no longer any basis for the state's arrival in the collection and strain of the pay. I find this rather mild - tempered with the facts, which are the fact that last January the State was judged for violation of a constitution, for violation of the European Convention of Human Rights, and for violation of governmental laws, where this collection was doomed. This is certainly true, and then the National Farmers'organization decided to collect their own dues. But some words in such text might be replaced with a story, not at least to make history look the best. In view of this, it would be reasonable for the committee to consider whether the same views could apply to some more commercial institutions that are collected by the government for a free organization or other community in town. I'd prefer to think of parishes that are collected for religion and principles, and that are part of a section of deeming whether they're taxes or dues. Well, it looks like something to me, though. Reports from last year's councils at the National Church that within the market, people view this as not taxation, but as social fees. So I'd be surprised that the Economic and Business Committee would not consider the same procedure as canceling the cost of equipment, that at least a thorough legal opinion from the State Department on whether or not the same applies to the application fees and equipment costs and after an incident whether any other fees of the government could fall under the same hat. Madam President. I'm telling you I'm done.
