ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u1	The president reminds us that our votes will be here right after the 1st talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u2	V.E.G. President. This morning an introduction to Mckinsey's health status report was conducted. In that report, the lights were directed toward the performance of the Land Hospital, his economy, and the conduct of hospital workers. The use of funds and goods provided by health care was also discussed. In addition, the association of the Land Hospital with other parts of the medical system was discussed, including health care and specialists in their own offices. It stated that much of the services served at a land hospital were emergency services for simple problems, and many operations were moved in private offices in 2012 ◯2015. In short, the Icelandic health - care system needs a clearer approach to where and in what amount to serve. The service of the Land Hospital should be organized according to that policy. It was observed that now that local authorities are once again putting extra money into the health system after surgery, there is a unique opportunity to reevaluate the system and to ensure that increased funds are most useful in health care. In this context, it is necessary to consider land and biological factors that affect the need for people of the country for increased health care. These findings are in much harmony with what we progressives have claimed and spoken for some time. We need a health plan for Iceland. Policy needs to be reviewed and the services to be performed in the health - care network throughout the country. That takes even more than that. taking into account the ages of the population, transportation, distance, and various other factors. Civilization procedures must be linked to this healthcare programme with the aim of getting health care professionals to work in many parts of the country. By strengthening health services in the country and by giving them additional work by strengthening them in nursing homes in many parts of the country, we can effectively reduce the pressures at the Land Hospital and no doubt increase the effectiveness of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u3	President. I'd like to start by saying my whole mind about what was presented in each case. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir. It's very important that we go on a long-term schedule of these large mails in our community. So I have wondered, " Do I not have to include more frequently the transnational committees of such major lawsuits in order to continue on some common journey that is not always up to who is in power? ' These are issues that all members of Congress are supposed to be concerned about and finding mutual solutions, and that was the main thing I wanted to discuss right now because I'm still thinking of this very up-to-date meeting with the General Agent last night where he repeated a lot of things we should have found to do. One of the conversations that the U.S. commission agent spoke at a meeting of a management and surveillance committee yesterday was the importance of a careful legal hearing and the application of the professional knowledge found, e.g. In less than a hundred years, the Court's work will be carried out in its own institutions, and in the councils itself, to be careful about the procedure. I remember that a fine book was designed to help you see how a good law is being done. Unfortunately, at the end of Congress and especially at the end of the term, all the quality standards seem to disappear, and all that seems to be watching for councilmen and senators is to set the law through as fast as possible in order to get the credit for having set things right. So I think it's very important that we find ways to work together, parapolitic, that large issues in a tricky way, since bad laws can have a bad effect on a very large number of people in our society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to step aside to an open meeting. The Commission and monitoring committee with the U.S. commission yesterday, in which the annual report was being discussed. This event in the relations of the Commission and its agent is very important, and the meeting yesterday was particularly successful, not solely to highlight the main emphasis and projects in the role of an agent in the interests of the citizens, but also to present that information publicly. There is a lesson in these meetings, such as the arrangement and development of decision - making committees, the classification of subjects, and the success of the office of the internal organization and its development, and the decrease in complaints. However, there are two main points I would like to mention, and it is a sincere desire to correct. The first is the possibility of an office to act on the initiatives, which, of course, have an undisputed advantage and is, at the same time, a powerful means of maintenance, along with other other means of making the council, have the means to maintain active control with the executive authority. Besides the fact that an agent as a secretary of the General to the Commission can fulfill his vital role and to the limit. In this form of law enforcement, it is designed to further promote reform in the administration and to further ensure the right of the citizens to the governments of the country. The second issue is being carried out in access to the office, the availability of motorists to the agency of the agent. In the larger context, equality is the essence of spontaneous human rights, and this is true of the legal protection, as indicated by the United Nations Convention on Equal Opportunities. One agent said and concluded his statement that the office would not be able to live up to such a lack of facilities and that it called for financial improvement. A respected president. We should answer that call first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u5	V.E.G. President. Finally, the bill has been submitted to legalize the social security law. It's taken the highest. Ministers for three and a half years putting that bill into the council. It's a big deal of justice to make changes in the social security system, but at the same time it's a big disappointment that the bill will not go further towards system changes and that it will not be more satisfied with older citizens' communities and that disability will be completely left behind in these changes. The case has not been measured, but already we generals are receiving objections and comments to the bill. I think it's a lot of concern because, as I said, it's a fair thing that we're changing the social security system. The main point of comment is that the limit for cutouts is too high and that the perfect minimum of vacation income will be very unfair, especially when viewed for employment. Then there is no objection in the bill to our claims, to the United States and to others in the smaller parts, to Pirata, to the VG, and to the Bjart's future. We've been trying to ensure that pensioners were provided with the same dresser compensation as other remunerations to prevent blundering and thus to increase the level of impurity. There's no evidence to suggest that social security should be brought up to 300 levels. K. as a minimum labour market wage and here is no attempt to compensate for the lack of correction by pensioners to May 1, 2015. [[The president calls.]] I'm worried about this. It is unfortunate that such an important matter is to come in here, and there obviously are such oppositions to some of the changes to take place here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u6	A respectable president. When problems arise, either in an institution or in a member or something, most would agree that a good practice would be trying to understand the problem fully and try to find a solution. Then is the motivation to solve the problem, the motivation to find out the truth. But I've noticed in the short time I've been in politics, and actually longer when I was a common citizen, that in politics there is another motivation. There is another source that does not focus on finding out the truth, it is not about understanding things best, it is about understanding them as much as possible that they are dealing with political opponents. This is a normal part of politics. I feel that it underlines the point, so I think it's more important to get the message out of the way that we should refuse such a statement, which is clearly put forward to bring down someone else, not to find out what to do, let alone to offer benefits. There are certainly some defects in all human processes, inside and outside the council, but if we are not going to examine them in the light of finding out what is really wrong with them and how can we improve them, we are in the least chance of wasting our time and at worst if we are to be upset. That is why I would like to contribute to the audiences who listen to the politicians to appreciate their motives. What are they saying? And I'd like to encourage you too. Generals and other politicians in general, people in general, in an effort to understand things as best they can, not merely to try to make them look that way or queer. It is called dishonest when it appears in places other than politics. What I find strange is that political dishonesty is taken for granted. That underscores the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u7	President. The money exchange has to be changed in the country. The national cake needs to be re-cuted. I don't know how many times I've said that in this sermon. But not only does it need to change how the income exchange is between people and businesses but it is not enough to reduce the gap between the rich and the poor; there is also a change in income exchange between the state and the community. To name just a few examples, societal communities handle enormously important classes of languages, schools, and elementary schools, the issues of the disabled and the cultural elements of any kind. The rural communities do not have enough money to care for such important projects because the money exchange between the state and rural society is old - fashioned and out - of - date. How can you change that, Mr. President? How can you make sure that your rural society is able to care for these responsibilities? We can do so by deciding in this hall that a larger portion of the government's income goes to the countryside. It would be minimal to accept a bill that has been held at the council since 2015 to share in a special tax on a financial firm to offset the loss of the income of the municipal organisations because of the allowing the provision of special savings to pay the mortgage and housing supplies. President. I try not to be paranoid, and in general I don't listen to conspiracy theories, but I wonder if I'm reluctant to make a fair contribution to the countryside because the government groups are in charge of the largest community. Is it possible, more dignified President, that there is a bite in play schools, elementary schools, disabled people's affairs, that they can't imagine giving enough money to the community because of the government groups run in Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u8	A respectable president. I'm very interested in the affairs of Icelandic students, especially because recently a bill from the Ministry of Education was introduced, where some structural changes were proposed. The LAIN is in the debate process now. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. It is clear that in the case of the magnitude of change as we are talking about now in the LIN bill, there are a wide range of opinions on their quality, their quality, and e.g. What is the key to education? I don't understand why the process of communicating that was fundamental to this bill was as bad as it really is. It is almost unsurpassed, so those members who were invited to enter a review complain that it was a sort of virtual conspiracy in the process of the bill. That's why I don't see what it's like. The General and Education Committee should be able to deliver the bill, as that is not a well-worked job for the Ministry. It's, for example. no economic analysis has been performed on the effect of higher subsidies of low-paying classes will have for the development of women and certain classes. President. I think it would be better if we were to try to create a transboundary field of cooperation, a territory of consultation, to discuss such extensive system changes. This sort of thing happens only in harmony, or the next government will make the whole thing look good. We need to take to heart what we have learned during this ideal period, that parapolitic committees, such as the foreign committee, are effective. We can imitate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u9	V.E.G. President. I am moved to discuss a slight bill to legalize the social security laws, especially with the rightness of words. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjargr Ingadóttir. No wonder that the bill appeared after three and a half years because the first two years of this election period was a committee on the review of this system, a large and large committee that worked well in the distance and gave results on February 29th of February. In that committee, as I said, a good worker was in the longest, but it took about two months for the committee to come because her acting chairman then, the one standing here, tried to achieve as many of the proposals of the Committee. It did not succeed because of one large interest group, i.e. An alliance of disability, at the end, decided to take control of anti-continent groups at the council rather than try to continue to influence the work of the Committee and its conclusions. That, of course, is bad. Nevertheless, these suggestions appeared in February last, and the suggestions are actually the biggest and true change in this system for decades. That's why I don't know how to represent the level that has become the longest welfare business in Iceland for decades, without doing anything else, except for the twits being here and making little of what is now being done by this bill, which is the first step in developing the proposals of the Commission to benefit all those involved, and to extend the right share of the castle foot in society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u10	V.E.G. President. The media's review of the last few days of the defense of animal life is quite strange, in reality unscrupulous, and gives a misleading picture of the situation. No senator has been involved in the defense of animal life. The proposals offered to a professional professional committee were both imperfect, and much more was needed to prepare for such a change. To eliminate such fractional support or direct payment is a complex task, and we want this to be done well. Therefore, the matter was taken back into consideration, and more than a part of the employment committee has won the case and the current proposed proposal is implemented. However, it is proper to draw attention to the fact that MAST has rich sources and resources to use in such cases. One of them is perjury. If a farmer has been removed from his farm, he does not normally get paid according to a livestock contract. Then MAST has the legal authority used to press reforms, the fines can easily confiscate any amount of pay available to farmers. V.E.G. President. There's no cost to it. We live in a civilized society where we do not approve. In general, the animal welfare issues are in good condition in Iceland and depositers are very aware of their responsibilities. With new animal legislation, there were new rules on how to use them. Many farmers in all their habitats now face the challenge of making expensive house - to - house improvements to improve equipment. At least the cost is billions of dollars. There is no need to build new buildings in order to improve the size of new buildings. V.E.G. President. No one wants to ignore the fact that there have been serious cases where animals are affected by bad equipment. Sadly, these events will continue. What matters is that we are all concerned about such things. These events are more common than not rooting out other problems, such as social status, sickness, and other factors than those that are always there for such problems. [[The president calls.]] Monitoring and rules never replace all things, surveillance agencies such as Food Organization also have obligations, and they should also be guided in their jobs. [[The president calls.]] So I refuse to have a discussion that when a member of the council wants a legal problem, they will defend an animal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u11	V.E.G. President. What a joy it was when it was the highest! A minister of education decided to transfer diplomats to police school for active police officers at the University of Akureyri. Despite the fact that criticism would come at that decision. Minister of Education, I'd like to say that the University of Akureyri was truly well versed in this course. It has been observed that more than 170 people have already applied for this study course. It is happy that there is a gender ratio to do anything equal to that already the university accepted 130 applications. I'd like to go over to a little bit that the terms of distribution are, for example, 18% of those applying from the Northwestern District are 15.5%, from Reykjavík 25.5%, the South American District 14.5%, 25.5% and 1.2% of the students from abroad. When I read those figures, I recall I was at a conference in London a few years ago, where I met a school principal from a U.S. university and told me that there are 4,000 local students, but 40,000 students around the world. That is exactly what the University of Akureyri offers, for students to be able to do the study at home, to be in places of courses, and to take a long - term school, which makes it seem that there are many more people who feel that they can do this well. [[The president calls.]] Congratulations, University of Akureyri.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to pick up the thread where it went. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir disappeared earlier on the switch between projects and businesses between the state and the country. There has been a long discussion that rural society needs more businesses than it does today. It has often been discussed between state and rural society, how to manage these factors and where and how to get more farms. Men have mentioned the fuel tax, in part a fuel tax should flow to the countryside where they are responsible for transport within their rural community, etc. Many other factors have been discussed, but it has not been easy to determine how the growing income stocks come to the rural community. However, with what we watch today, it is essential that we respect this administrative level of the rural community. So let's make a step higher, bring more work to the local community because they have closer service and they know more about what works in their own community, better than we, who sit here at the Council, and establish a law that most people are supposed to visit. On the other hand, I reject the very opposite. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, that the board of directors here and now, an independent group and a forward group, would not want to increase the share of your company's income stocks because in Reykjavík the Union is the left, green, and Piratar. I think conspiracy theories are beginning to fly pretty high.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Egilsdóttir for calling here and giving a clear description of what has been related to the agricultural agreements under consideration and animal control. I've got, like the rest of them. However, members of Parliament, there are a number of discussions about this in so - called community and other media. There is no question that the debate is in any emotion, but of course there is no senator here who would support it, either directly or indirectly, that animal abuse was in the business with or without state staging. Some discussions are carried out in intense emotion, and that is how I was going to discuss the matter. During the last few days of the council, there have been very much discussion with so - called bank bonuses, who were not really the personal bank bonuses, but were rewarded as holding companies who took over property from fallen broilers decided to pay their employees against the success of selling possessions. In this hall, there was a lot of discussion about this matter, and many words were lost, an enormous expression that could not have been seen except based on considerable misunderstandings. I hope it was unintentionally but not planned. This was especially surprising to me, especially because it was only a year ago. The members of Parliament participated in a forced agreement with these broilers. The colors paid over 500 billion dollars in a government fund against their leaving the country with other property. They were talking about greed at bankers. Of course, I call it nothing more than greed when people want to go even further into the possessions of the foreign sears rather than be glad that some of them will remain in the form of tax payment, 700 billion if I know the right thing. I wanted to tell you what to do. The Economic and Business Committee agreed this morning to take these issues in particular, and they had a rich solid agreement on this. [[The president calls.]] I hope there'll be some debate over these matters on some cognitive level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u14	A respectable president. As the Senate works during this term, it will be more apparent not to reveal slightly obvious how little difference there is between the ruling parties at the General, even though they are divided into four categories. In one case after another, the entire ideal period, in a committee following a committee opinion, following a stand, has been seen walking the knife between the two sides. While there is, of course, a critical difference between agrienvironmental or fictitious aspects, there is no greater than simply a number of political parties. Adding to the election is the fact that the four political parties, in all principle, have the same goal for the next terms. Therefore, I would like to say that in the coming elections, changes in the work of the Parliament will take on new more things that are involved in social reforms and in the interests of the public. However, in order for smaller items to become more substantial, the smaller item must be credible. And in order for the elements that have stood here for the reign of this terms, I believe it is necessary for men to unite in these different categories on the collective project file for the next four years, so that supporters of all these classes and all those in Iceland who want to change will have a clear choice. Otherwise, this government will continue with the same government, plus its construction wheel.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u15	Mr. President. During the past few days, I have had a big change in my proposal to the job board for the livestock contract that it would be permitted to drop state strength if the animal traffic laws were broken and farmers practiced zoos. I don't expect the 26 senators who voted against the suggestion that they mean, by saying that it's okay to give blunders to those who are involved in the animal business. But I also ask myself, " Now this livestock contract was in place, where nothing was taken care of. ' They did not wake up until this proposal of mine was submitted. The people struck her, and they began to try to make something better. It is now a matter of professional employment that people are trying to meet that point of view. But has it gone far enough? If not directly involved in direct payment, may an animal farm be partly involved? Is that okay? Why don't we go all the way to defenseless creatures in this country and say, "There's no money from the government box to those who practice animal abuse or violate laws against the well - being of animals? ' I think the public in this country wants us to take it far from defenseless creatures. And that's not the way it is for people to talk like that. In 2012, when we passed a law on animal travel, then a professional minister, J. Sigfússon, presented the law that if a law on animal protection was violated, a federal grant could be taken. Then came the president of the Farmers Association and said that there was a need to make changes in the storeworks. Now we have livestock open. We make these changes, we walk all the way down the road, and we can't afford an animal in any way. Of course, we do not give any government strength as it does. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u16	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to say the last speaker. Of course, we're not supposed to allow an animal accident in Iceland, and we're supposed to do everything we can and everything we can to prevent it. Mr. President. I've made nuclear and nuclear disarmament a subject at this scene several times. Earlier this year, a team of 123 members of the United Nations came together to find ways to ban and eliminate nuclear weapons. Iceland, however, did not participate in that work. Sadly, August 19 turned out to be. to vote for a report produced by this working group. That's not where Iceland paid votes. By the time we're back, Iceland has repeatedly joined the nuclear powers, and if Iceland has just not signed a vote against the ban on nuclear weapons, we have at best sat by. For this reason, I have directed two queries to the highest level. Secretary of State, on the one hand, to find out why we stayed behind in this vote in August. and to ask, though, if a representative of Iceland would support the proposal that at the UN General Assembly, a conference will be announced in 2017, with involvement in international institutions and civil organizations that would be open to all countries with the intention of negotiating legal binding ways to ban nuclear weapons and contribute to their extinction. [[The president calls.]] You see, it is important that we take our stand on this, no matter what nuclear power may be involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u17	A respectable president. It is a special pleasure to recommend for the synopsis of the Paris Convention of the United Nations. In December one of the most important deals in history to deal with climate change, the Paris Convention, the United Nations Convention adopted in Paris. V.E.G. The Environment and Resource Minister signed the contract for Iceland on a formal signing ceremony conducted at the United Nations headquarters in New York on April 22. The Paris Convention is a legal binding contract that obligates the world's countries to work together on the vital work facing mankind, to respond promptly to climate change and the effects of life on earth. The Paris Convention is also the most ambitious climate agreement ever made by the countries of the world. With it they commit to enforce a course that was designed to reverse the frightening developments facing the world. A respectable president. The purpose of the Paris Convention is primarily to keep the earth's temperature rise within its limits. This limit, according to the contract, is below 2°C relative to the average temperature of the earth before industrialization. It is also recommended to seek ways to keep the increase below 1.5°C. The EU aims to reduce emissions, so-called national budgetary contributions, made up of its own decisions and to form the Paris Treaty a legal framework for this commitment in the Member States. The agreement, however, does not predict who these goals are or what they are made up of. It will be in the power of the kingdoms itself. However, it is important that all countries are expected to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which is the first time. The contract expects the countries to report their regular national contributions to the UN Climate Convention and how they intend to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. From 2020 onward, countries will show an ever - increasing ambition for donations. An effective accounting and monitoring system should ensure that the desired targets and commitments are comparable. Most countries announced their plans for commitment to the Paris meeting. Iceland sent in its 30 June 2015 target of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in 2030, compared with 1990, in cooperation with the European Union and Norway. The final commitments of Iceland on the basis of the Paris Convention are determined by the agreement of these three parties. The goal is to complete that work next year. This arrangement is practical for various reasons. According to the EEA Convention, Icelandicenterprises have participated in the European Emission Emissions System for years called the ETS. Hence, it was at the time considered beneficial and natural to create an environment to participate in a common objective with the European Union in the second Kyoto Protocol period of 2013◯2020. Thus Iceland owes itself to reduce emissions by more than 20% to 2020, compared with 2005. We have good experience with this cooperation, and this is a normal continuation. Iceland thus operates with many of the most ambitious countries in the climate, and that's where we want to keep our place. It will be normal to agree between Iceland's international commitments and the rules on climate issues that we adopt on the basis of the EEA Convention. Norwegians have come to the same conclusion as they aim to walk toward the next pass from a common objective of 30 countries within the framework of the Paris Convention and to expand internal rules there. A respectable president. Iceland, in many ways, enjoys unique situations in which electricity use and house - warming are already almost 100% renewable energy. Of course, there are opportunities in other areas being worked on, including On the basis of the government's application program on climate issues presented in the Paris Summit. For the first time, it provides a comprehensive climate project program, which is based on financial projects and emphasis on getting people from jobs, institutions, and university society to help with the project. The Paris Convention places a special responsibility for developing countries. In this way, they are to take the lead in the implementation of the contract, where they are in a better economic position to cope with the problem, as well as responsible for large amounts of greenhouse gas emissions. It is then recommended that developed countries provide support in the form of capital and support for climate-friendly technology. In most cases, developing countries have lower body volumes to cope with climate change consequences or take action to reduce emissions. This arrangement complies with the core of the European government's focus on developing cooperation for years. For years, the United Nations University and the Icelandic government have helped developing countries build knowledge and technology in their own fields, but all with strong references to climate. The importance of such work is now confirmed by the contract. The Icelandic government has also decided to increase contributions to the Green Climate Fund and further contribute to climate projects by the Council of the North Pole. Iceland was then in charge of the establishment of an international geo-gravity alliance at the Paris climate conference. It is particularly enjoyable, then, that the Paris Convention contains guidelines to meet gender equally relevant issues in adaptation to climate change and infrastructure, but Iceland kept those views very up - to - date during the negotiation. A respectable president. In 2016 the world's temperature appears to be going to the highest from the start of measurements. Temperatures are struck, water is falling, sea level is rising, weather is causing man and property loss, and drought destroys crops. Today, I met with the minister of foreign affairs of Bangladesh, a country where the consequences of climate change are just the most serious. As it turns out, some 15 million people in that country may have to flee their homes before 2050. We in the north also have enormous interests to care for, and later this week, we will have a comprehensive assessment of Iceland's interests in the north, which has been performed at the national level. The effects of climate change in northern regions are widespread and global. Temperatures rise, falls, and life patterns change. In the past 30 years, research shows that Iceland's northern waters have been greatly acided, and this calls for failing where marine ecosystems are fragile. There is no need for a wide range of concerns about Iceland's interests in this regard. The Paris Treaty has given rise to climate policies for the future. The Paris Convention is about the future. It is our responsibility for how the earth will be returned to our children. The contract takes effect when at least 55 states with 55% of world release have validated it. The number is now over 20 kingdoms, but an important milestone was reached last week when the United States and China declared that they were validating the contract. Iceland also has an important role in the implementation of the contract and was among the countries who wanted an ambitious agreement. The full value of the Paris Treaty is now sending a message that we want to take pride in the implementation of the contract and contribute to its gaining global value as early as possible. So I hope Iceland can validate the contract as soon as possible. As such, I suggest that the Congress's resolution of the Paris Treaty be followed by this discussion referred to the question. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u18	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state foreclosure. She was good. Two schools have been fraught with discussions about the environment over the past few decades, namely, that man is some kind of master or ruler of nature, capable of taking action and that he should use nature as he pleases and suit himself. Then there's the other school that goes out to see that man is a part of nature and has to be careful about what he's going through so that he's self-sustained. The warmth of the earth and climate is the most clear reflection of the ideological failure of the first school. It's a ideism that doesn't work. That is why we face the problem. It is also obvious to us, who are internationally involved that such a problem will be solved only by powerful international cooperation. I spent a year with other members of the council in Paris when these contracts were in progress and put away. I'd like to say that it's a great pleasure to know that we're going to validate them at the council. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister where we see a critical plan of action. For example, I know that in force a climate program is known as at least one. The former government set itself up. Where is she? Are they working for her in some way? Do we see it? In the second answer, I'd like to discuss only the acidification of the sea, which is a very serious matter for Icelanders and a very specific matter for us to focus on, but unfortunately we're very small, at least when testing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As he likely realizes, the contract makes a legal framework for the commitments made by the countries themselves. Hv. A senator asks what this means. One of the things we have declared is that our joint objective is to reduce emissions by 40% by 2030 compared to 1990, as shown in my history. We also place great emphasis on forestry and land healing, along with other aspects of our presentation. In terms of the last government's policy, there is something being done with it. I believe this is such a matter that it will continue to evolve. As it has grown, and the way it has changed in these areas, I feel that there should be some cross - political agreement about its progress and the way we set our goals. This is what we're doing right now at this point, and I'm very happy that we're this far on this and how the Icelandic government's been doing this as well as how they were working on the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u20	Madam President. I'd like to finally encourage the highest. Minister to promote influence on Iceland's government that there will be more power on these matters. I know there is little time left by the authority of the current government but, nevertheless, there are major measures to be taken. There is more to be done. The government and the government in Iceland can do more than in this agreement because it is an opportunity for us to place real capital and real power in research of the acidification of the sea. There are opportunities for us to use our glaciers to illustrate the effects of climate warming. Of course, we should be on the lead in these matters. There are opportunities to do so. Maldive examples show how little nations, small countries, can do things that are of great importance. It was the president, or prime minister, who held a meeting below the sea when he took power to draw attention to the fact that if it seemed that the islands were simply sinking, they are only a few meters above sea level. I'm not measuring that the government meets below the sea, but I think that in a figurative way, Icelanders could pioneer in bringing the world's public to consciousness and waking them up that one of the most urgent things in the world today is taking real action to correct global warming and deal with the consequences that this has brought to the entire population.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u21	A respectable president. Thanks again for asking. I agree that me and the Icelanders are in a very good position to do our part. We have our electricity and heat that originated in nearly 100% more renewable energy. There we are doing our part. Then, as I mentioned earlier, in a government application program that was just adopted in the leading part of the Paris Convention. One thing I would like to mention again is that there are, of course, huge projects that are involved in increasing the donations needed for forestry, land healing, the recovery of wetlands, and such measures related to electrical vehicles and cooperation with marine areas and the reduction in emissions of agriculture. I think we need to keep working on this. We make additional contributions in the Green Climate Fund, and we want to be very early in this regard. Our involvement at the Paris meeting is clearly marked. Also, we must not forget that at this time industrial and business minister proposed proposals for the interpretation of the energy exchange strategy for a number of national targets, e.g. that the proportion of renewable energy for transport in the country will be 30% in 2030 and will be reduced to 10%. I think setting such goals as we are doing will bring us very much. This can also be done by means of a specific checkup. But I agree with the senator. We should always be very ambitious in this business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u22	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. Minister to celebrate this day. I think we're all happy that we're here measuring for the validation of the Paris Convention, which was a major turning point in climate change all over the world. I would like to ask specifically about the factors in Iceland's commitment. We are now going to be participants within the framework of the Paris Convention, but it is stated in the text of the Council resolution that the final binding of Iceland to the year 2030 is not available until the European Union has been negotiated. Iceland also stated that there was an informal meeting together with Norway with the European Union on this joint project and that there is a political agreement. Finally, formal negotiations begin in the near future and are expected to be completed in 2017. Later, in this same text, the word "peasant " appears repeatedly. When it comes, I think, four times in 15 lines, some literature scholar would talk about grace. It's good in itself that Iceland wants to be ambitious in climates, set out ambitious goals, and want ambitious agreements. It's all good and good. We also want to remain on the lead of action against climate change, but I ask, What is the objective of Iceland's contract in this relationship with the European Union? If Iceland is going to live up to its name and be so ambitious it's going to require a multitude to the government's executives in these matters to keep it on rhythms what Iceland's contract aims are.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I can't hesitate to say again that Iceland is among the most ambitious countries in the process of the contract and is looking for a very ambitious deal. I don't think we should be shy about that word, nor do we demean it at all. It is indeed a happy day, and it is a pleasure to be at a council and to recommend the contract. Of course, we want to work with other European countries, and we are. As we do this, we are in cooperation with the European Union because of commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. Our goal there is a 20% reduction of emissions to 2020. Our commitments thereafter will be permanently determined by the EU as the senator entered. That is a normal continuation of good cooperation. It also matters to our professional life that we have similar and comparable rules in climate and in our major business countries in the EEA. As I say, our objective is a 20% reduction to 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u24	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. As I understand the Minister, Iceland in itself does not have its own goals in this matter but intends to travel with the European Union. However, I would like to try to get clearer answers from the highest level. Minister and ask: What views will Iceland have along with Norway in meeting with the European Union on this joint enterprise? Or does the Minister of State believe that Iceland in itself has no particular business at this level but is able to take over the European Union's results? Would there be any shock, even Pink, in that the Foreign Minister of the Agency did not think Iceland would have to have an independent voice at the table, but it would leave it to the European Union in this category. V.E.G. Especially did a minister come to the council's odor proposal. Industrial and commercial secretary of energy exchange. We also have waste plans from the highest. Environment Minister and I'm going to ask: Ministers are well pleased with the situation we now have in terms of some major systems of government, whether in waste, energy exchange, transport, or any other matters that might have to do with greenhouse gas emissions? Does the Minister believe that these programmes are in place all in favor of this common objective, i.e. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions? Finally, I would like to ask the minister if he does not consider it a worthwhile goal to accompany our neighbors to travel to a variety of non-carbon communities within the limits required to form by 2050. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u25	A respectable president. It's so nice to be here today. I've got to say, as it is, it's very special that there's an ex- Secretary of the Left Green coming to accuse the parish Party of not being independent of the European Union. Its party applied for participation in the European Union. One thing is that we're here, and we're dealing with this fun and important deal in Paris but to hear from the former minister of the left green, that it really has some concern that we're not independent of the European Union, I think it's very entertaining and a little contradictory. I have to say it right now. [[Up front.]] Our goal is very simple. We would like to, of course, reduce this emissions, and I've said so in my history, but you might think the former minister who is often dressed in black just didn't get it. That's why I reiterate what I've said, what we're doing that's e.g. only differently, we're covering a very good part of forestry and land use. The EU has other rules. I don't know if your former environmental secretary realizes that. We're working on these issues, we want forestry and land use to become more important than, for example. The EU highlights after 2020. We'll find out. Of course, we need to cooperate with other countries, even if that is so. I just have to say, even if we're not involved with the European Union as your group was in - I'm answering the question. [[Can You Explain?]] Are you supposed to have an intervention here? I don't think so. As I say, we're always trying to do our part in this case, and that's exactly what we're doing with this deal. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u26	The president reminds the speakers to use the proper address words.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u27	Madam President. First, I'd like to celebrate the proposed resolution of the Paris Convention. I think that's a great deal of joy and, of course, fully support the matter. I think it's the highest. A minister in his prehistoric speech was well aware of the importance and need of this. I don't think it's an exaggeration to say that climate is one of the greatest and most important tasks of our time and that we are participants in the political field today. These are one of the biggest projects we're waiting for, and we're gonna have to deal with and deal with. I think it's a good thing that Iceland is going to be among the states that we want to make an ambitious deal and that we want to work with the most ambitious countries in the world. I think that as one of the richest nations in the world, we simply have an obligation to be very ambitious when it comes to these matters, but also because we live in a good way when it comes to certain factors like the highest degree. A minister entered his speech. We are so happy to be able to warm our houses with a sustainable and environmental way of life from nature's hand. There is something that a great many nations of the world simply cannot. But I think most of us would write that living in a warm home, or subsiding housing, if you live on the globe, is a very high quality of life. I think this is one of the big challenges that so many countries face, i.e. how houses are eaten and choked. I think that because we live in this much green energy that we can use for house - warming, we can be more than just role models. We also have a responsibility to contribute in other areas where we have such privileges and benefits. I am concerned that we are not working hard enough to plan how we are going to achieve the goals we set for ourselves. So I believe that the question is as good as ever. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir asked that we answer at the highest. Ministers on what the contract goals of Iceland would be very important. I agree that we can not only wait to see what the European Union will do but also to set our own goals. I'm not gonna belittle what I'm going to make as high as I can. A minister said that she spoke of the emphasis on forestry. I think it's fine. But I think these matters need to be considered on such a much larger and wider basis, since forestry alone is not effective. Therefore, I would like to encourage you, highlighting the need for Iceland to make its own strategy and point it to the highest level. Environment Minister, whom I am very happy to be here in the hall and plan to participate in the discussion, for that task is, of course, largely on her table, even though it is the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs is to submit validation of the Paris Treaty. In an inquiry as of any given moment. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir directed to the highest power. The Environment and Resource Minister for Action in Climates is precisely asking how the government intends to follow up a climate application programme and to form questions about the role of the various institutions under the Environment Ministry on these issues. It's interesting when you read through answers at the highest. Ministers there are words such as tests, monitoring, monitoring, disposal logs, back here for the word "watch," all through the answer. Of course, this is not enough. Of course, it is important to observe and have charted all these factors, but monitoring will not be necessary to reduce Iceland's emissions. There's more to go. I'm thinking that we can't afford to wait, we have to start work very fast, we have to set our goals and plan how Iceland is going to meet and stick to the commitments that the Paris Treaty means. I'm worried that too much focus is put on the magazine that says that we're going to make a 40% reduction in 2030, which is, of course, a good and necessary goal, but there has to be a plan on how we do this. Otherwise, this remarkable agreement in Paris may not be won, for if more countries just drag their feet and sign them, for, of course, signing is the easier part of these topics, if the government does not set up the goals they are going to follow, nothing will, of course, happen. So, I want to finally, as soon as I'm glad again that this Senate resolution proposal for the validation of the contract is established, it is highest. Minister and chief. Governments as well as those and the people who will be in charge after election to take the matter in place and set goals and plan to make a success of these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u28	Madam President. I like the rest of the people who have expressed themselves in this matter about the validation of the Paris Convention on Climates, of course, rejoice that we Icelanders are about to sign the formal agreement made between nations. This is a turning point, and it is long time for the nations of the world to join an organization and work to reduce the greenhouse effect and validate this climate agreement. I'd like to have a moment before I begin to talk in general about these matters. The Paris Convention makes a framework for the commitments of the countries which they have voluntarily made with the aim of maintaining global temperature below 2° from the average temperature of the earth before industrialization. This is an ambitious goal, even though there was a little debate about where it should lie. At the same time, a way to maintain a temperature above 1.5° should be taken. The agreement will affect Iceland's goals on climate, but it does not contain direct laws on the absolute commitments of individual countries. I'm stopping this. It is not to speak of the need for each country to make a certain commitment regarding the number of commitments it makes. I feel that Iceland should be the most ambitious and prominent in climateism. We have such a great chance of being a model to other countries, living in the high geothermal temperature that we have and the potential for energy exchange, both to sea and country, and a potential for many in which we have much unmoved nature and can draw the line, where we want to enable and where we want to protect, and how we use our energy that we have activated and are going to activate, whether we use it for employment, green employment, or whether we use it, as much of what we've done, in the pollution of today's population and over 80% of all the electricity production in the country. Is that a lot of thought? In June 2015, Iceland produced its proposed contribution after its approval in the government. It shows that in cooperation with EU Member States, a 40% reduction is aimed at 2030 emissions as compared to 1990 emissions. What a lofty goal! I agree with what has happened, as was the case with the previous speaker, why. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir of the Year, that we Icelanders need to show a plan of action in this regard. While we look at what the European Union's member countries are going to do, there is no reason to hang on that train and not take the initiative. Rather, we are the people who set high goals and draw the chariot and are exemplary. It is often that little countries can be the leading person who is exemplary, able to look and work from what we use our energy, how we use our resources, and how we have ambitions about energy exchange. What do we have, e.g. Made in energy exchange? Is that what we have in mind? I don't think so. We've too much to focus on using our energy to make a fortune. If we are looking at issues that are currently in the council, such as the customs agreement with the European Union, the labour agreement, and the frame plan, the subject likely to occur in the coming days, the conclusion of the third-way task management in those areas, this is all a matter that in one way or another relates to the way we Icelanders are going to arrange our affairs to achieve them the goal of binding carbons and reducing greenhouse effects and air pollution. Has it been determined somewhere or is intended to do so, e.g. an assessment of the effect. The toll agreement on our climate targets and our involvement in the Paris Convention? We know that excessive pollution will result in the extensive transport of food to the country that could otherwise be produced within the country. We left greens have suggested that the impact of the livestock contract also be environmentalized and have achieved in the work of the employment committee that it will be done in the next three years as the contract reviews and reviews of the work force. I think it's a good phase. As we look at the goals under the Paris Treaty, the major policy in the country in general has its harsh hands. I believe now the government must be completely turning over and looking forward to building a green economy in the most sustainable manner. The last government produced an ambitious document of the materials that the present government pushed off the board and has not worked with. For the use and protection of natural resources, how and where we use it and for what it is intended are of utmost importance. There must be complete confusion from what is now, if not bad, and by failing a test of meeting the goals here validated. We've gotten our feet together, but it's good we're now to sign this contract, make it in Iceland. He's been validated in Norway some time ago and in China during the days. Then the next secretary of the environment, after the next election, is to work on developing an ambitious strategy for us Icelanders to be the person who has a great ambition to act in the sectors referred to here, such as energy exchange and environmental assessments in general on all that the state has and can influence and the general economic environment in the country and individuals. We all have one way or another an impact on air pollution and greenhouse gas pollution, whether it is an individual, a company, a state, or a community. There, all members need to do their part and not shrink back, for it is of utmost importance to future generations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u29	A respectable president. I am very happy that the privatization of the Paris Convention has come to confirm in the International Parliament. The Foreign Minister has already given a detailed discourse that reviews the main issues of the Paris Treaty and the benefits of early validation. Of course, I agree with her speech. It is the challenge of the Environment and Resource Minister to validate the contract as well as the entire government. Iceland was one of the states that wanted an ambitious contract in Paris. We thus had a very powerful presentation that brought attention to various issues that we have taken to our attention during the climate discussion, such as renewable energy, agriculture, and forestry, and the effects of climate change on the sea and on the glacier. I'm not going to repeat what happened in the history of the highest. Secretary of State, however, would like to add a few things, especially how we can deal with the commitments found in the Paris Convention. Indeed, the treaty is a turning point. It gives us hope for success in climate. It gives us the hope that a discussion between nations about climate change will be better, since the issues were set on a crisis. Developed countries said that there was no long way in which powerful and growing developing nations, such as China, India, Brazil, and Korea, were not obliged to reduce emissions. On the other hand, evolutionists said that rich countries must be on the lead and that there was no shortage. Both sides had a point. However, in Paris the lack of political reconciliation was successful. Like many other humans, it is our chief and perhaps best hope, so it gives us the opportunity to defend our efforts to solve the problem rather than try to find fault. Iceland made a promise of its share within the Paris Treaty, where we aim to make an ambitious contribution but, I say, it's safe to say, there's no one to know that it's going to be a considerable effort to reach the goals that have been set. It can only be achieved with everyone's campaign, i.e. ... everyone'scomeinside. I sense that we have already made quite a bit of progress. There has been a wake - up in society, in employment, in rural society, in scientists, in institutions, and in the public. However, the strength of the application program discussed here and humans are naturally well aware of the fact that more are being activated with us and trying to find practical solutions. It's like when you throw rocks at the sea until it's turned into a container. That's exactly what we're going to set up on 16 teams, but we want it to be like the rock that's thrown into the ocean, that's the container that spreads out, that's what we want to find that strength, and that's what I think is happening. I'd like to give you an example. In Paris, the land - healing situation gave rise to an enormous amount of attention. In fact, we were surprised to learn that so many of us have the most attention. We were invited to attend interviews and other interviews. One of these projects is the restoration of wetlands. It is a land transplant that handles it and has worked on several projects. In a formal way, we began to recover wetlands for the summer and was one of the last works of the last president. But it wasn't just there. I also heard that Iceland's bishop wanted to start such a campaign in the Sale, and I'm sure he did. I think it's kind of fun that these places are in our national history. This is to say: Here we have places that are not widely used under traditional agriculture, where wetlands are restored. You can see that these institutions, both the Oval Office and the Bishop's office, come in there, as well as, for example. A very interesting assignment is now being carried out by the park community. There's already one eight applications from the state of the world, if I get it right. We're doing a lot of stuff. Last time in the news, they told me that they were gathering seeds of melgis on the black Myrdal Land. This amazing plant, the melles, has changed much. Of course it binds carbon too. It's not only the forest we want to build, the land transplants have a lot to say, and they can bind carbon. But whatever you can say here, even if we don't feel that we're not wanted in the parish plan, it's still Iceland's first climate agenda based on projects that are especially funded by the government. And we are going to succeed. Of course, there is something to be costed, but that is what we will do. I don't need to mention an example. It's been discussed before. A general assembly, such as energy exchange and increasing the number of battery cars and making them handsome. Already advertised, they are strengthened by their work. Of course, being in front of a group of Icelands is an opportunity to use our climate-friendly and relatively cheap electricity instead of contaminated fuel. We've got lots of parishes. We're working and we've been working on roads for a climate-friendly fishing road. I feel like a fishing plant and only the general industry is very comfortable with these matters. In other words, it is working with the articles themselves, both fishing and agriculture. There are people inside the door who have knowledge and bring climate - related solutions. Once again: The strength of this project is just taking more action. This has naturally been shown in the highest speeches today. Secretary of State that we're raising money to the forest. We have a lot of land. It is what we have in excess of many other European countries that we have land that we can use to grow forestry and to improve land healing. This involves a great deal of wealth. It is understandable that even though we may have increased money in forestry, we do not have more time to build trees from seeds for planting. But all of this is coming, and soon we will see it happen. That's what we want. The battle against eating is one of the tasks that all can take part in. The project somewhat symbolic for the fight against climate change and for environmental protection that waste of food produces unnecessary production, unnecessary transport, and unnecessary waste. All of these are the issues that are interconnected on climate and environment in general. It's nice to say that now next Friday, a beautiful presentation and conference will be held in the Pearl together against waste, that some companies are engaged in. Fenour has the greatest honor in the conference, but at the same time, the Icelandic Women's Association and the Free Association Associations. I like to draw attention to the fact that it's not just the state that's supposed to do everything. It's the State that's supposed to be on the road, maybe coming up with ideas, but then it's the environment itself that takes over, including the work that I like. You can see that people are starting to think that we need something to do to prevent eating and eating. I don't know how much I'm supposed to be talking about the parish program here, but Iceland's Weather Service is a very powerful company and has taken part in the maping and monitoring. If we map and awaken the environment, we will see changes that will take place from year to year. It is also an essential element. The Council has been an expert on the Environment and Resource Ministry to specifically design the application programme. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very positive that we've been able to get financial support for our climate issues. I sense a positive discussion here at the General Assembly on the Paris Convention and I believe it is a happy day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u30	A respectable president. Thank you very much. the secretary of the environment for her speech in this matter. I'd like to tempt her to ask questions that I asked an executive earlier, and I didn't get the answers and subject to Iceland's contract aims in cooperation with the European Union and at our joint meetings with Norway with the EU on this common project. We are going to travel with the European Union, about which we had an agreement at the time. I think it's actually reasonable. On the other hand, I miss the fact that the government officials are coming, and it may be more important to the secretary of the environment than to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who refused to answer earlier, who will be involved in Iceland or a bargain plan at the bargaining table. Yes, it is clear and correct, and it was expressed in the words of the highest degree. Environment Minister earlier that the percentage of so - called clean energy in Iceland is high and has been named above 70%, which is considered the highest in the world. That's close to that number, too, in Norway. I think that number is 69%. Nevertheless, the Norwegian government has declared that they want to reduce emissions by 40% regardless of these European agreements to participate in a common objective. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she can tell us what message Iceland wants to share at the contract table or if Iceland wants to see what comes out of the European Union's communications.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. Foreman. I think I can convince her that we won't put anything in our head at this bargaining table. We naturally have a few things we've been working on, as I believe, in today's talks. Contracts will be permanently resolved at this time of the year. I don't trust me to mention here some percentage or whether we're going to agree with the target that Norway has set out above 40%. We haven't made the final decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u32	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister for an honest and grammatical answer in this matter, of course, is important to have such a great deal. I'd like to agree with the Minister that it's a pleasure that this matter of Congress has finally come to pass and that we can contribute to at least in this confirmation process. This is shown in the case of the highest. Ministers that she does not trust in accepting Norway's goals, and I respect it to the Minister that there are reasons for this, but now the release of the Council and elections begins to reach and people are molding their position on large issues, including environmental issues. Some people want to say that, including The one standing here, that climate may be one of the biggest issues of the day, so I would like to ask the highest. Minister, who will at the end of this short term leave the environment minister's seat, what she thinks is most worthy to become of Iceland's contribution in that field. Let's say that she doesn't want to answer it for herself. Rather, she leaves it to the forward party, but I would still like to try to ask her specifically about an idea that has been very widely in the world, i.e. that the community is planning to become a non-carbon object in some particular year, e.g. 2050. I also asked the highest. Secretary of state on this matter, and he didn't get the answer. Iceland could become a non-carbon object in 2050. For the General, there is a proposal for that. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of the environment, when she looks at the journey of her office and the future for the country and the centres, for Iceland and humanity, whether it is not a good contribution for us Icelanders into that discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u33	A respectable president. It's a fun discussion. Indeed, I am abdicating the work of the Environment and Resource Ministry with a missing nature, since I find that lawsuit extremely challenging and rewarding. I am absolutely certain that his point will grow in the future. There are an enormous number of assignments. It's often that way with our behavior, and I've learned to define my own behavior even more about getting into this office, that there are so many things we do that can make environmental and climate conditions work together, I've said, for example. by reducing the production of food, by reducing transport. I can totally agree with the senator that such a goal may be desirable, 2050. I don't always like to use bans, but I'd rather see this done by teaching and, perhaps, better methods than direct bans or other rules. But you have to know where you're headed, that's right. I can totally agree with her that this is the preferred challenge, to head for Iceland's nothing of carbon in 2050.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u34	A respectable president. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on the privatization of the Paris Convention. So that is still, and once said, even though it has been so well said, it is a great deal of joy for Iceland and, of course, in its time for the entire inhabited earth, but a certain group of countries have to validate the Paris Convention for that process to be completed. I've been trying to resist calling for the clearer policy of the present and advanced government, but I have not received clear answers in this regard, but I believe that I must be an important project for all political parties now in the process of campaigning to answer the question about Iceland's climate policy or how we see it and where we consider it to be wise and, yes, the ambitions of the Iceland at the contract table and when it comes to making a deal with the European Union and Norway on common projects. I would also like to point out and correct the importance of looking at this series in the context of all other lawsuits. Maybe this is just a group of paintings that should be over and around. In fact, some countries have gone so far as to have a special climate agency holding their arms around this class, perhaps because climate matters not only concern the environment in the traditional sense but also the same issues of energy, transport, and, as noted in the Supreme case. Environment Minister, matters that merely depend on the everyday life and consumption of society. Thus, the debate on climate is always a reminder that the group is broad, and it must connect, and it must transcur, the whole community and all its lawsuits. Therefore, I have called for, both in the discussion and in the past, that the actual climate plan, whether it is a plan or a plan of action we have since 2010 or any name such a program as this, of course, must be a plan that will capture many more lawsuits. That's what I've been calling for in reply to our highest degree. Internal Ministers when they recommended transport plans for transport, what were the climate objectives of the transport program? I believe that, if we are going to take the step to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, it can't be limited to one particular plan and measures within it. That's why we have to be careful about this process, and we have some models here in the administration that are experimented with this integration. I'd like to mention one way to the highest degree. An industrial and commercial minister has spoken and made up a project called the Management Board of Travels, which has yet been cursed for all possible. It is at least an attempt to bring together the Ministers and the seminars associated with the case in some way and to consider whether such a plan would need to be made when it comes to climate. Parliamentary climatics has been decommissioned through the Generals. It is a climate recommendation that has the main role of making measures to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gas in Iceland and has defined a project and is the territory of consultation with people who have both direct and indirect access to this issue. I'd also like to step in on the fact, and I don't think that there's anything wrong with saying that tools are about the Paris complex, which will reach its goals in the warming of the atmosphere under two degrees. In fact, it has even been reasoned that the Paris meeting in the present form is more than 2.7 ° C during warming. It's just too much, too much. Climate Action Network has brought this up. In view of this, specific requirements were set in the Paris Convention to reevaluate our goals regularly because they considered them to be the basis for their doubts. The agreement that this would not be effective enough to achieve these goals. That is how we are looking at a disaster and a situation that will not be reversed if we have reached such a global warming. We who are in the industrial part of the world may be the most responsible and perhaps the most responsible of all. People have said that 1.5 ° is really what we tolerate, what the world can tolerate, whether it's human heritage or other aspects of ecosystems. In all likelihood, the Member States of the climate agreement will need to do even better than we have been talking about if we are to stay there. Being ambitious likely means taking steps that are still ahead of what has been mentioned. As noted earlier in my answers, the brief suggestion given here has become quite common. But in order to meet the viewpoints of that fine statement, we need to do more. Even and probably we're going to have to aim for the goal of Iceland to become a non-carbon object or at least reduction of greenhouse gas emissions far more than appears to be in the same condition. I'd also like to mention, because I was talking about integrating a wide variety of plans, that during the last term that was probably the mostdiscriminate of the republican institution, there was a very positive report here at the council chamber when we agreed with all the votes of Congress resolutions on a green economy. It was exactly a suggestion that was involved in bringing the development of the economy in the most diverse direction of green and positive developments, i.e. Whether it was innovation, evolution, or product development, food production, or what it was, we would be trying to make sure that growth was not at the expense of natural resources and was not at the expense of the quality that we must protect for the long future. As a result of this disappointment, at the 2013 State Department, these suggestions were one of the things that were taken off the board, probably under the premise that these were a remnant from the former government, and they even talked about pet projects and things like that. But I don't think we're going to let this plan go again. In fact, I think and believe that it will include those who are independent and those who want to be part of it. It is simply about facing the fact that if we are to share the prospects of this earth for some future, we must be careful that growth is not aggressive. That suggestion was good. There were detailed measures and may need to be revised, but I will stress it on my own and hope that we can become more accompanied by taking up this thread and trying to develop an Icelandic economy in the direction of greening it. And thus, we will permanently reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Because we always live in a difficult situation, a stronger economy, an increase in economic growth, an increase in greenhouse gas emissions, and the best for climate is, unfortunately, when the economy contracts. [[The president calls.]] This is a subject we must face.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u35	President. Of course, you rejoice that we are validating this agreement. I was fortunate to have the opportunity to be in Paris at a meeting held in the French Parliament by the International Parliament, which covered this and the conclusions made by the International Parliament. I have to say, it was quite remarkable to hear from my colleagues, members of the world, and those who have been in the climate conferences, and in experiments to set global standards to deal with the enormous problems that we face every day, which are always bigger and bigger, and almost overwhelming. There's been very little mention that the senators are on the climate conference until now. The International Parliament's Association played a major role in the fact that there were so many members of the council there, but this meeting was hung at the climate conference we had as an additional meeting, and very many saw reasons for coming. I think it is very important that this is just taken far more and deeper into the political field than has been done. In fact, it must be a requirement for all political parties that climate is part of the debate every year and especially during election year. We must stop viewing our environment as related to certain categories. I've always been amazed that it's defined as having left - to - face with the environment. I think it's amazing. That is one reason why we have been running so little ahead. In Paris, there was something that left me quite worried about the deal. Of course, this is a pivotal agreement, but it handles only a very specific problem. It was discovered that one of the main reasons for such acidifying the atmosphere was decided to go beyond parentheses. You see, it's not just cars or airplanes. It's not just the oil. No, it is also the trees that fall because of an ever - increasing demand for meat, cheap meat. This was decided to be taken out of parentheses because it was thought that this large part of the problem could not be agreed with parentheses. This led to great disappointment. At the same time, there was no reason why oil prices are so low. The use of more gas and oil, including water, has been under constant environmental control. Through ◯Fuffing, and the tragic consequences of what is called tar sand can also be seen, a method of getting up oil in Canada's Alberta states. It's almost impossible to deal with all these big issues if we drop the biggest part of the problem. In terms of putting goodbyes on a major industry and in business it has already been shown to be cheating. Since we can't take this into our communities and help people with social responsibility for the future, we're always doing a little bit and never enough. We're getting late, Mr President. If we don't do something radical, not just about laws and regulations, if we don't do something radical inside, inside every human child, then the future for our children and grandchildren will be terrible. It's gonna be terrible, Mr. President. I don't know why we're gonna make such a small space. This problem ain't going nowhere. This problem gets bigger every day. This does not mean taking into account a specific portion of the material. We need to take a look at this whole thing. It was a fateful time of 1960,1970. At that time, people had become very aware of the threat of pollution and poison, which was put into the world and is still happening. For example, animals with a thick layer of fat, whether in the sea or in a land in Greenland and in Greenland, still carry poison from the spread of poisons in 1970 and 1980. The pollution will not disappear. It continues to be part of our ecosystem. However, during this period of decision was made that has been very important. She was that as soon as global things were to be talked about and pollution was decided to go about getting technology fixed, that the technology of the future would fix the problems that were already known to bring us into the future. If it had been a way of handling this from society rather than technology, we would probably be in a different world today. Of course, we can use the technology to cope with and develop better ways, but while society is not part of the effort to deal with the marvelous vital things of mankind's life on earth, people are not likely to experience the responsibility that they have to shoulder together in the future that we are going into today. It was a pleasure to see that China and the United States have agreed to validate this agreement. Of course, we are happy to do the same. But we need to ask ourselves: " What is our view? What are we going to do? Are we just going to shovel into ditches that were once buried to create a land where the swamp used to be? That's not enough, we know that. Do we have a long - term schedule on how to stop importing unnecessary products? We can easily have a high - tech greenhouse here, using energy that way. This applies to all imports. I remember the conversation around the place at the Cradle. The main point of the sale was that it was so green and good. We were going to save other nations from using bad energy, contaminated energy. At the same time, though, it was never included in the conversation. It's moved to Iceland, all the way from Australia. Is it sustainable? Is that good? Wouldn't it be easier to have the studios there, rather than Iceland? We need to start thinking in a much larger way and consider how we really can begin to clean up, for there are few nations that will overtake us when it comes to the depth of our ecology. We'd need a lot of land if all the nations of the world were to leave as deep as Iceland's. It's too short to talk about such a big deal. I'm done with my time already. This is one of the issues that I hold dear to an individual and to a senator. We only have this earth, and we're supposed to watch over it. We're running late. Hence, each day we must spend some time thinking about how we can keep out of the way that there will be a future for other animals, for our children, and for our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u36	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to discuss this subject here today and to see that all the speakers are female, to the end. But I know there are many men at the council who, of course, are interested in this matter. This is very important. I want to take this opportunity and wish you the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. The secretary of the environment is happy with the day and all of us taking this case to heart. I can say what's been said, I'd like us Icelanders to be even more ambitious, I like that word. I think you're right. In his speech, a minister of the environment said that there has been a awakening. Yet, in many respects we are the soles of the northern and non - northern vessels. It has to be said at this point that much of the environmental legislation we have implemented is due to the European Union's initiatives. It may not be that way today, but we took a leap into environmental matters when we became members of the EEA. It's also a very good plan as well. I don't remember its exact name, but we talked about it here the other day. The aim is to greatly increase the use of energy sources other than fossil fuels. There we find a problem, for oil prices are very low. At the same time as we know that burning fossil fuels increases the problem with greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, we still do not have the courage to tax this environmental product. I don't know what to say, maybe we just hope that oil prices are just going to go up again so that the other things we have, though some of them, will get cheaper. I'll admit that while we're not ready to take some of these steps and say, "We're using fossil fuels, we know we're gonna ruin the earth and we're gonna take it and we're gonna take it out and we're gonna do it the way we need it, we're not gonna change anything. Today it is cheaper to buy diesel or gasoline than to buy biosilel. We've been talking about it before in this hall that it's cheaper to waste organic than to take it to molt. And while the less expensive option is the environment, nothing changes. The government's got to be afraid to take a stand if we're going to do something wrong. I'm very pleased with what the pope has spoken directly. I didn't expect to be quoting him on the II Parliament's symposium, but I find it really interesting to see that a person with that great authority should speak so plainly. It has also been observed in this discussion that, of course, our life - style is the problem in Western life. What the pope also said is that climate change is worst for those with the least responsibility. We can take various steps here, such as planting trees and shovels in ditches and driving electric cars and metal cars. All of this is important and good, and of course we should be radical in that regard. But I would also suggest that people watch only the consumers because everything we buy leaves an eel, whether they are our clothes, our phones, or our furniture, is now not spoken of the travel laws, we are never going back. Of course, all of this takes its toll. The problem may be that hands simply fall apart. But I hope to the highest. A government that may now be saying goodbye will take a step in this direction and the one who accepts will continue to take even greater steps. We can always add a little bit. There's nothing to say that we can't be making all kinds of work here and there. Environment Minister has, for example. dealt extensively with food waste. I completely agree with what she's doing, even though I feel like I'm doing. that it might be taken, perhaps the most important step in this problem, to simply forbid the practice of organic waste. It's just not gonna be an option to take the loaves and all the stuff that's out of plastic and growl somewhere. Even if it costs something, it has to get molted. Then there is the motivation for the store to reduce waste and try to get the goods out and improve the planning. It's a short time. I don't have any more to say unless I'm happy with the contract and I'd like us to take more radical steps. I don't experience it so we can't, that we can't at any time say we're going to take it more intensely. New assignments may arise. We too need to take up the discussion about our lifestyle. Do we all need these clothes, all these trips, furniture? We're buying and throwing or giving into the Red Cross, that kind of culture's running. I am very happy when I watch young people today thinking about what effect, for example. Meat intake has, in some cases, affected agriculture and the choice of agricultural products that are better than others and that are aware of their choice. When I watch the young people, I feel optimistic. I feel that it is better than we are in taking responsibility for what is happening to us. A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep this for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u37	Madam President. I'm glad you finally validate the Paris convention. It's been nine months since it was signed in Paris, December 12, 2015. It is important to keep in mind when discussing this synopsis proposal that it represents one of the largest issues in politics worldwide. The climate is threatening the life of the earth and us humans living here. Heat records are struck one month after the month. Climate change is being affected by floods and hurricanes and forest fires. This results in a lot of damage. People run away from their homes, which also causes conflict points. If we do not take our pride in this matter and immediately show that we are serious, we are really out of time. The objective is to increase the temperature of the earth below 2°, to allow the earth to warm by no more than 2° from the average temperature of the earth before industrialization. At the same time, however, all routes are requested to maintain a temperature below 1.5°, relative to the global temperature for industrialisation. The Paris Treaty has a greater responsibility for emissions, and it is natural that we, the richer, prosperous part of the world, contribute more. Iceland has decided to cooperate with EU Member States to achieve 40% reduction in emissions by 2030, compared with emissions by 1990. This is what we are going to do by continuing to participate in the EU's emission-relevant business systems and by determining extra commercial emissions targets by applying the same methodology as the EU state. However, it is also stated that we will negotiate with the European Union and Norway in a way that will not be achieved. At the same time, formal negotiations are beginning in the near future. It is estimated that they will be completed in 2017. The date of 2017 does not appear, but it is stated that this is a national labour agreement in which national contributions are then set within that framework that does not have to be implemented in Iceland's pay sheet prior to the completion of the Paris contract. So says, by permission of the President here in a report: In the years and decades to reach them, important work is ahead of establishing ambitious goals on climate. Madam President. How true those words are! If we look at major emissions, it's transport, ship fleet, industrial emissions, and it's agriculture. The market agreements were now being negotiated until the age of ten, and the releases are not considered. It scares me. This shows that we do not really have the ambition to fulfill the Paris meetings' goals. The contracts that are going to legalize at the General Assembly give us the opportunity to show whether or not we are having something to do with our involvement in the agreement. We also need to look for ways that after the collapse, our position in emissions improved, since people can afford to have as much cars as before a crash. This affected emissions automatically. Now everyone who drives from west to east in Reykjavík, in the middle of the afternoon, or east, knows west in the morning. Traffic is increasing. Car sales are increasing. This brings us back to the truth that the economy is trumped up. It's going great. But it also has an effect and leads to increased emissions. We need to make much more ambitious plans for the building of public transport. During the last term, rural society in the capital area made a deal with the State to get a billion people to build up on public transportation for the next ten years. Blessedly, the present government has stuck to the agreement, which is extremely important. However, the development that now takes place with increasing traffic shows that we must do better. We need to revise these plans and contribute more to public transport, apart from the quality of life that is improved by not having to sit in their cars up to 45 minutes to make it a distance of just ten miles [10 km]. So, of course, we feel comfortable driving our car, and there is much freedom, but there is also a lot of savings for people if they have access to efficient, efficient public transportation. This is a very important assignment. Then it's the fleet. They need to continue on the same path and reduce emissions. And then I think we should start setting the goal of quitting here of a major industry. We need to start building another type of work that does not unduly affect earth's resources. Rather, we need to make good use of the resources, the human. Making investments in interesting and valuable sectors and improving education are measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, it's indirect, but it's an investment that we have to make in order to build jobs here based on intelligence, not aggressive use of natural resources. In the United States, we are talking about renewable energy, which actually walks on another resource, which is our nature, but we also bring in raw products that interfere with life in other parts of the world, such as bixite to aluminium production. I'm glad we're validating this Paris deal, but we really need to spit on our hands and all agree that we're going to get these goals and start right away. We are going to show in our work here that we offer suggestions and measures to initiate recession immediately so that we can achieve these goals. Of course, we need to bind greenhouse gases with crops, but this is to be added to reducing emissions, for this is a key factor, reducing emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u38	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the fact that this case has come along and thanks to the highest degree. Minister for that. It is important that we show that we are serious and accept the contract as soon as possible. What I really want to talk about is that once something's made up, we have to start doing something. That's the big job. I feel that at the council, we have agreed that it is important that we try to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, but this often becomes less effective. We set our goals and plan, but then you always feel that the results are small. Failure to see, for example, has been disappointing in recent years. Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from transport and car traffic, etc. Something's gonna have to go spit in those palms. So, what do you do? I think we in this room have to agree to take drastic measures and try to get them together. I've come to admire how the city of Reykjavík has come close to this work, by getting the job together, and by the government. There have been over 100 companies in Reykjavík signing their city's objective to reduce their emissions. I feel that we need to get closer on a bigger scale to cover this project. It's not enough that the Ministry meets and reviews the situation and set goals, we need to make better contact with the companies and professional life. There's already a way to find out. Now we have to start doing it on a bigger scale. One project that I have found interesting, and I have offered myself suggestions for at the council is to try to try to test the transport and cars to reach a transphere position that green vehicles, as well as the energy donors themselves, get the tax and reciprocal until we have reached an X percentage of these vehicles or such vehicles as the proportion of those who are on the roads, i.e. We can, considering, when we've reached 10% of the truck fleet as green vehicles or 15% or 20% or whatever we think is satisfactory, it's not until those conventional costs start to establish them too. You need to set some goals and take action related to them. That would be a good way for me. But in order to achieve that goal, we would have to agree on that resolution at a council and even reach some sort of agreement on the contrary, on the contrary, on the part of a car fleet, i.e. The green part of the car fleet would be given tax and taxable until we have reached the target. There's one way. It is not perfect, for, of course, these vehicles also use the roads, and they need to be built up. But this does not change the fact that if we are going to be successful, we need to take on something a little more drastic than we have so far. Speaking of the automobile fleet, we've had a green fleet of cars rolling ahead of us taxable greens, such as. worth taxation in electrical cars from year to year. That's not an impossible way. Those who import them need to be able to have experience, i.e. long - term care is needed, planning long - term shopping plans. This environment must be more predictable than we've made so far, so it's just mentioned. I find it interesting and positive, so you draw out what you're doing well, seeing how the fishing road's been working. There we see in the count the measurable changes in ships - based emissions. There is something important that the article itself considers important, since food is being harvested, and it really is important. We have enormous interests in the ocean, that emissions will not exceed those of the sea because of the risk of acidification and its impact on the article as such and on the Icelandic economy. We have a lot of money in this country as an island that uses the sea resources in the same way that we do. This is one of our basic works. They can be given what they have done very well. I hope we're lucky to put down some kind of plan, hopefully on the contrary. It would be fun if the Allied Council of Congress ordered to go to this work across all classes where they actually settled for whatever projects or goals they wanted to set for, which jobs would be at home, and then connect the industry, institutions, and rural society better into this, that we build for real Internet projects, we might say, except for those projects. We've been working on these things a little bit. It will no longer work if we are going to achieve substantial results that are necessary. Then there's another project that interests me. If we look at the composition of greenhouse gas emissions on the EEA website, we will see that the largest part comes from industry and chemical use. That's what's been growing. We are to consider carefully how to reduce emissions from these forces. This is the only way we're going to do this with employment and institutions. Then there's another aspect of interest, and have been asked by members of the council as easily as possible. Skarphéðinsson Andersen, who is the influence of progressive swamps or their contribution to greenhouse gas emissions and shares with them. The restoration of wetlands is a large project that we need to move on and carry on. It's supposed to be there, too. I'm not going to point out anyone in this discussion and say that someone didn't do it. Rather, I'd rather call all of us and say that we're trying to get along on this project. Radical action is required. The aim of limiting emissions and maintaining temperature changes associated with 2° is not gonna help the countries that are falling under the sea because of climate change. They claim that there is a price for a man to aim for at 1.5 ° C. Others argue that if we keep everything exactly the way it is now, we may be able to reach 1.5°, stay there. The results of all the research, and I think it's undisputed, show that radical action is required, action that requires it, and I, like, have used this illustration in the past, that we tear into the hand brake in areas where there is most emissions. The consequences are already very serious and can actually be disastrous. There, such interests as ours, which are acidification, affect the environment of the ocean around us. Then, too, nations around the world are sinking into sea because of this disaster, which is from our own. We created this. It's our job to make these changes. It's important that it starts here some real work and that we take it out of the pits and try to start a real application to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u39	Mr. President. It's been a very interesting discussion, I think, today. I have to agree with another member of the council who spoke earlier and said that it was quite remarkable that this particular matter, climate change and the consequences we face, would have no more space in the general discussion. This is clearly one of the biggest issues. It's not very sexy to discuss this, I think it's perfectly clear, the case doesn't seem to reach the media, and it doesn't seem to be possible to put it in sexy headlines or something that grabs the people to look inside and people thinking, " What can I do to change my behavior or lifestyle? ' There's been talk of traffic and other things, and that there shouldn't be such a long time in the capital area to make it between places and places. I'm pretty sure that, based on an appeal number, we all hit the record in the private car. Somehow, we're doing worse than often getting out of it. I feel that the traffic is increasing, which is partly because of the tourism. But it's not just that, people travel much more in private cars. I'm not out of it. I live in a small place in the country, and sometimes I think when I get into the car, " Why don't I walk? ' Why don't I take my bike out? Why in the hell am I getting in a car? I'm about... two minutes longer at your destination. But we're just used to it, now that's what it is. That's why I say we have to look at ourselves. The question is, What can you do to inspire the human brain to change? The global objectives under which the issues of the EU were adopted and 17 turn toward increased sustainability, efforts to prevent hunger and poverty, increase equations and contribute to sexual equality, improve and ensures access to education and health care, provide ecosystems, manage climate change, and protect marine and forest environment. These are the goals below and in another hundred countries have agreed to work on them and to try to reach them by 2030. They didn't talk about how many years ago Iceland was drug-free. You may wonder if these goals are unrealistic or if we can approach them in some way. It's just so much business. I believe that what has prevented the growth from improving is that there are business interests at stake. The President of the General Assembly of the United Nations, Lykketoft Mogens, has said that his main concerns turn to rich nations, that they do not take their goals seriously, but evolutionists try to see what they can do. He also draws attention to the fact that this is not just about the poor people in the poor countries but about all of us, all over the world. He points out some factors that developed the nations can promote in the sustainable development of action against climate change, anti- fiscal measures, and then an increase in donations for public development. This is one of the factors in which we show less responsibility, the developed nations, than the rest of the peoples in distress. The famine is far farther away from us than from many other nations. If we cannot stop greenhouse gas emissions, their volumes will increase. Then we will continue to stand before the warmth we have experienced. Ours sooner, usually at least. We see birds coming to the land we haven't seen before. In fact, downtime is changing, and the greenhouse season is increasing. Looking around, we can see that amazing things have changed. In view of how this can develop in the coming century, it is estimated that the pressures on ecosystems will be far beyond what can be managed. It has been said that the sea is becoming more acidic, affecting the environment around us, and it is believed that the uptake of natural carbon will reach a climax in the mid - century period, which, in turn, restores climate change. As I said, poor communities are particularly sensitive to these changes, and their ability to react or adapt is often less sensitive. There is a danger that, after all that is happening in the world today, there is more heat waves, storms, droughts, floods, malnutrition, and other factors that follow. This is not a matter we should say to wait, for it certainly cannot wait. I think our role, as we have been traced, is to minimize it in many ways, whether it means looking inwardly or in the large context. We are happy and content with tremendously growing tourist flows, but at the same time we are confronted with pollution from cruise ships, which add even greater pressure to the pressures. I agree that we need to promote public transportation. That's one of the things our little Iceland hasn't done well enough. Based on the road weights on the streets, it seems impossible to get together, so that people can see their advantage in using public transportation. I agree with it. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir told us earlier about the green vehicles, discounts, and things like that. I think we really should take a good look at it. We've seen a fine step in the tourism program, which involves electrically powered ships or boats at the whale inspection at Húsavík. It's an attempt to stop pollution, and at the same time increase the experience. Of course, many factors are involved. It is also about the recovery of wetlands, forests, and so forth. We need to get our shit together first and last, each and every one of us, because we're all bit of this puzzle. Instead of pointing it over to someone else, we need to examine ourselves and see what we can do. This was called waste of food and other things. Everything counts, a big one. Above all, to achieve real goals, we need to reduce emissions. I hope that the nations of the world will validate this agreement and will not allow business to get in the way of the threat to future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u40	A respectable president. Therefore, this matter should be welcomed. How happy we are that the nations of the world seem to take the matter seriously! Like what? A senator mentioned earlier found it difficult to put it in such a way that people want to talk about it as much as they need. I myself believe that we are already over the danger zone. I think we're going to be in the future in extreme climate change, no matter what we do of it. Even if we stop burning oil and coal today, right now, the whole world, I still think we're going to land in some serious trouble. That is why I feel that the above - mentioned scheme of nations also needs to start to think seriously about how they will react to the bad conditions ahead. That's more than just saying. The atmosphere is complicated. It has more complex systems that humans study, so it is difficult to predict exactly what happens. In fact, it is one of the challenges, not just that something will change in a certain way, for it is not in itself a problem if it happens slowly enough, and if it is known long before what will happen. The problem is that we do not know exactly what is going to happen, and it will also be much faster than the world's communities can handle. This, of course, has an impact on the politics of the world, communications of countries, and conflicting issues that were not anticipated. I think it will try very hard to deal with countries that involve not only oil and energy but also parts such as food and food production, and just space, because if these changes become very faster, areas that can be used today will be ruined and vice versa. It's not a matter of how it's going to go. Human beings are especially good at finding and dealing with disagreements, and they are very aggressive. The 20th century's challenge was whether mankind survived the weapons of mass destruction, the invention of nuclear weapons, and so forth. The 20th century was filled with fear. Those who listened to punk music and lived in the punk season often describe how the atmosphere was hopeless. People simply did not assume that they would grow old because the world would be damned before that time. I think it's strange not to have the same fear of this problem. To say that, we make it through the 20th century, despite all the dangers, we can still see, for example. Still disagreements between Russia and the United States, which progressively take place according to all I know about them. There are dangers in many parts of the world. Still, we should not forget that we have this tendency not only to go to war but also to have great opportunity to meet such challenges. I believe that the same applies to climate change. The question is how much damage will be done and how we will succeed either in preventing it or in some way in the future in order to make up for it. Although there is reason to be deeply concerned, we also need a little, and actually a little bit, to overlook how difficult this all will be, and to wonder what we can do to face future developments. I believe one of the most important answers lies in technology change. I think we're getting close to that period in which, however much of it can be, just some kind of government over the weather is going to be part of mankind's life on earth. We're used to being all over the planet, we're used to being able to travel freely between countries in spite of all the natural barriers that are present, mountains and sea, heat and cold, and everything in between. We're the animal that landed on the moon, walked on the moon. And it's a good possibility that one day we'll walk on Mars, which is the next planet. When you start to discuss such matters, people are quick to view themselves as fantasies or fantasies or are not involved, or they are some of mankind's pet project. We must not forget, though, that we are the target of an amazing challenge. You wouldn't believe in a person walking on the moon 200 years ago. But we did. Similarly, people would probably not have believed that we could have a major impact on the climate that we might jeopardize our own existence. But we did. Similarly, few would have thought that we would invent weapons like weapons of mass destruction during the 20th century. We did, though. And even less fortunate people would have thought that we would survive for so long to have such weapons in their hands pretty many but crazy people. We did, though, so far. I don't think we should forget what we are. We are not just the animal that is going to ruin this earth. We are also the target species, the species that can cope with such challenges. We should, and if we believe it, we should do it with confidence, do it, and believe that it is possible, because it is, if we believe it. But this is not possible if we do not believe it. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I'm celebrating this case. I repeat, there is much more to be done. We do not take it as seriously as we need to do. But we should look forward with the hope that we can meet this challenge, and we need to look beyond just one or two centuries in advance but to thousands of years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u41	A respectable president. It's a very good day today. It's especially a pleasure to be here and to have recommended a synonym to the plagiture of the Paris Convention. It is my hope that in Iceland we will soon validate the contract. It just so happens that me and the Icelanders are in a very good position. Our electricity and heat are already growing into nearly 100% more renewable energy. This requires that we take steps to reduce emissions. Then I'll mention how to create the transport sector. We can do more. I agree with the members of Congress who have discussed today that we need to continue developing our plan. There is much in the government application program that was approved in the leading of the Paris Summit. I just want to specify a few projects there, and those that have already been funded. For example, as I mentioned in my history, for forestry, land healing, the recovery of wetlands, and operations are carried out on the infrastructure of electrical vehicles and cooperation with marine fields and agriculture for reduction of emissions, except for international operations carried out in the Green Climate Fund and the first international effort to use fossility. I'd also like to remind you that as of now industrial and commercial ministers, a proposal has recently made to be made for the interpretation of a energy exchange policy that has set out a number of comprehensive goals, e.g. that the proportion of renewable energy for land transport will be 30% in 2030 and that 10% will be affected. That's where we're talking about a significant change in the language class. Iceland was among the most ambitious states to make the contract and wanted to make an ambitious binding agreement. As I've said before, I agree wholeheartedly with the members of the council who have spoken here today and strongly stress that we're going to handle this matter, accept it, and work on plans related to it further. I also feel that it is important that we achieve an integrated environmental policy across the Ministry and across the sector. And another way, for real environmental awareness to become a reality, this also starts with raising our children. In particular, I look forward to many basic schools in Reykjavík that have the ambition to gain the Green flag. What's it going on? Yes, teaching children to respect the environment in their ways and actions. Is that truly praiseworthy? Finally, I'd like to say, "This is a day of rejoicing. " It's nice to come down here and tell you what's going on, and I'm going to admit that we're going to validate the deal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u42	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to be here and to measure a bill for a song about a change in the social security law, No. 100/2007, Social Services Act, No. 99/2007, No. 125/1999. This bill is part of a global review of the Social Security Act and the Social Services Act that has been working on for all this terms. The primary objective of the bill is to strengthen the status of the elderly, including the elderly. by making social security legislation simpler and clearer, and by improving flexibility due to retirement. To a large extent, the bill was based on a proposal to reevaluate a social security law set up in November 2013 and gave me a report at the beginning of March of this year. The Committee did not agree on the review of the social security legislation on the uptake of work ability, instead of the disability assessment and its improvement system. It is therefore not suggested that the laws on disability at this time are altered. However, this will continue to be done in the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the labour market partners and the main stakeholders of those with limited ability, thereby laying the basis for the next steps in a legal review. Just now this week, we're just meeting to see if this is what we're doing. In the meantime, existing bioenergy evaluations and current policy measures for social security benefits for disability will be used. The bill highlights the simple legislation and thus aims to reduce the number of costs of construction and that the social security system will be more beneficial to the older citizens of this country. In addition, much emphasis is given on increasing the flexibility and option of the elderly at the end of their work. It is then assumed that pension age will be up in stages for 70 years. In addition, testing projects for the expense of residents in nursing homes are initiated. A respectable president. Social security has undergone major changes in recent decades and has become an increasingly important part of the development of the social welfare community in Iceland. Well-being is for everyone, and social security is part of the security network of all people living in the community. One of the biggest challenges today to Western communities is the rapidly increasing average age of the population. It is estimated to increase from six to seven years in Europe to 2050 and in Iceland the percentage of 67 - year - old and older people will rise from 12% in 2016 to 19% in 2040. Iceland's Institute of Manners estimates that the proportion of older citizens aged 67 and over of crowds will be 22% in 2060, or just over 97,000. The objective of the bill is, therefore, to respond to the challenges society faces because of an increase in the percentage of older citizens of the population and the prolongation of the average population. However, Iceland's situation has many benefits, especially because of the powerful pension system and the high commercial involvement of older citizens, which is with the greatest known in the OECD countries. A global review of the social security law has been over a long period of time, and this work will continue. The system has been too complex and it is difficult for the citizens to recognize their rights. Social security payments are based on a number of subsidies that carry different rules, e.g. in terms of conditions for the payment of a pension and the benefits that come with it. There are different limits of the income, i.e. any other income of a pensioner affects the calculations of payments, recessions and decrease ratios due to income, i.e. how much other income can be made to decrease when the sum is calculated in this way varies. The system is very complex. It has been difficult to change the laws or rules of individual reform groups because of internal connections between different reform groups. Experience shows that the complexity is growing as laws and rules are tried to meet the demands of different persons or new needs that arise in society. This can be seen by the recalculation of a depositor on the basis of the income of a pensioner every year, which, as last of all, shows that 90% of pension workers who were recalculated had received either too much money or too little. However, it is not just the material changes that matter for the future of pension insurance in Iceland. There is an increased demand in the community for transparency, efficiency, and simpler and clearer lyrics. This has been expressed in the opinion of the General agent and the decision - making committees of social security and welfare committees. Since the start of the present government, major changes have been made that have been made in order to make legislation clearer and more beneficial without major material adjustments in reformal groups. Consider the law No. 8/2014, which includes the rights of the citizens and their duties in dealing with the insurance agency and the role of the Agency and the law of No. 88/2015, who changed the regulations of the law, including government, i.e. on insurance agencies, its role, its management, its director's office, the administrative district and the new decision-making committee of welfare matters. There were regulations for the purpose of the law, explanations of the words, fields of values, and many more. Thus it can be said that instead of swallowing the whole elephant in one piece, we have gradually protruded toward completing the overall accounting of the law and have come to the factors facing the elderly. As I mentioned, the global reexamination of the Social Security Act has lasted a long time and can be said that the project began about ten years ago. Various groups and committees have served at that time with varying success. There is, however, no denying that much compensation has been made for sensibilities and disability pensioners that we still live in. All of us, though, can agree that this class can be done much better, and this bill is part of it, the result of it. Soon after I took up my job as Minister of Social Affairs in 2013, I appointed a committee for a review of social security laws under the late Pétur Peter Blöndalur. The work of the Committee was the main focus of two aspects, one for dealing with work assessments that would replace existing microenergy evaluations and flexible retirements and the money pensions for the elderly and the desperate. A commission to the Committee stated that its work was based on the work that had already been done in connection with the global re-examination of the social security system. After Pétur died, Sæmundsson, a general, was taken over by the rock - mass. He returned a report by his proposals last March 1 and is a largely based bill based on them. I want to use this opportunity to thank all the good people who have come to the important task of reevaluating the social security legislation, and I really hope that I will be able to make peace with them at the General Assembly, giving up the bill that is here fast and safely. The bill suggests changes in the elderly and changes in accord with the government's policy of supporting the elderly to self - survival, promoting employment, simplifying their social security system, and adding their interaction with the pension system. There is also increased support for the group of elderly ones who have very little or no income to make progress other than social security benefits. First, there is the transformation that leads to the simple improvement system. They suggest that the subsidies of basic pensions and insurance insurance, in accordance with the Social Security Act, and special supplementation currently required in the Social Services Act, become united into one reformal group, which will be called pensions. The new group's budget will be 212,776k. a month compared to the current amount of money improved in 2016, which corresponds to the stratosphere of those who live with others. In addition to pensions, household chores will be paid for by private pensioners. It is assumed that the sum of household chores will be 34.126K. every month, she reduces 7.5% of the combined income of the pensioner from others other than the social security outside the special pension and financial support of rural society. The combined amount of pension and household will therefore be 246,902 k. in a month, which amount corresponds to the stratosphere of individuals living alone. In addition to uniting these three grading classes into one, it is suggested that the so - called pay limits will be taken away and that the money of social security will be reduced by the same percentage, or 45%, due to non-SECU income. Today, this ratio varies according to the type of income that causes a lot of complications in the system. Certain types of income, such as the pay of special pensions, are still being expected to be separated from the income policy. Here it is proposed to the huge simplicity of the system, which comes together with the reform groups, isolates of income markets, and the same rules of how to treat all income types. So regardless of where they come from, they look to what they have to offer. In the comments that were received this summer by the bill, the criticism can be divided into two categories. On the one hand, the research projects of the work performance assessment, which I decided to take out this bill and continue working together with stakeholders and then the changes in the payoffs and recording of this decrease rate. There were very divided opinions, from the point of view, that there should not be a limit to looking particularly at the possible markets involved in employment and/or even the making of one holiday goal that would make them tire all their income. Thus, there were a number of comments on this matter, one of the questions that have been asked about here at the council when it comes to this matter. I know, however, that the main focus on the Committee, and indeed, the Committee's earlier commission on changes in the system, was that people would be looking to simple ones so that they would understand the system, understand what it should be, and understand how income affects the money they come from public security. But as I pointed out, each year there are about 90% of pension workers who have income - related payments, who either have to reimburse an insurance agency or who have not received their rights. When we simply have this high ratio, it tells us that something serious is wrong in the system. There is no doubt in my mind that the integration of the reform classes will make the social security system much clearer and more understandable, and the change will reduce the complex calculations of the insurance agency and the risk of over- or underpaying pensions with regard to discomfort. Unchecking the cutaway limit further, and thus making the system more righteously visible, will be prevented by individuals with the same total income being discriminated against, since income differs in their calculations according to their ethnic background. I expect this to be one of the things the committee will specifically discuss in the light of the reports that have been received and the comments that have been made by the bill. If this bill, which I really hope, becomes legal, we're talking about a turning point in social security in terms of simplicity and transparency, where older citizens will be able to calculate their rights to the insurance agency, based on their total income at any given time in a relatively simple way. A respectable president. However, what is important to me, and is part of the Treaty, is that if this bill becomes a law, it will have a very positive effect on the cohesion of pensions and social security. The amount of money spent in pensions affects all social security benefits but in a very different way according to the current legal environment. As I mentioned, the decrease in percentages vary depending on the social insurance benefits, the social security laws, or social assistance laws, as well as the cut-offs, or just the same in terms of the specific process. The bill assumes that the impact of payment from pension funds will be much simpler than that of the current law. One of the most important factors thus reverses, as I mentioned, the decrease in the proportion of income that affects the calculation of future remunerations to low income and incomeless pensioners. It has been criticized that a slight increase in the income of a pensioner may result in significant declines in total financial resources and has been specifically criticized in this relationship, but it is permitted to pay the satisfaction when the combined income of pensioners, including the benefits of social security, is under minimal scope. Has it been claimed that many pensioners thus do not see the benefits of having paid into the pension fund from their income, where their combined pensions from public insurance and from a pension fund can receive the same money they receive from a insurance agency that has never paid in pensions. In order to cope with this, the bill suggests that the extensions will be combined with pension and pay insurance under social security law in a social security category, pension. This prevents the loss of pensions or the loss of a cent to which we've all heard of, but according to current law, every dollar the person earns, whether it's professional, financial, or pension income income, the effect of paying off an insurance agency. This will improve the interests of older citizens who have the worst terms and, at the same time, fall to make social security easier and more beneficial. We have also seen, more dignified President, that a change of viewpoint has been made in view of the end of employment and the value of working longer than the current age of nursing if the circumstances allow. Many can and would like to work longer than 67 years of age. It has been called for an increase in flexibility at the end of the work and the beginning of pension, in fact, in the social security and in the pension system. The average life span has increased, while more people live longer with better health. Research has shown that work and effectiveness in later years have high social value as well as improving health. Improving health and life expectancy as well as the willingness to participate in employment activities also increases the possibility of continuing and increasing the work programme of older people. In view of all of this, I feel that it is very important to increase the potential for older ones to maintain and improve their skills and improve the ability of people to change the field of activity in later parts of the work. The resulting retirement should be a real option for those who eventually end up working and the labour market is in the long run to enjoy the activities of older ones. I place great emphasis on employment opportunities and part - time jobs for those of the elderly who want to reduce their jobs, as well as to work longer. Participants of the workforce, including state and rural society as employers, play an important role in preparing the labour market for these changes. The bill thus suggests changes in the flexibility of pension and retirement that are intended to contribute to the gradual decline in the proportion of older citizens. According to current legislation, the schedule of nursing can be delayed up to 72 years of age and increased by 0.5% for each deferral month, but up to a maximum of 30%. The bill suggests that this authority to postpone the removal of pensions with a permanent increase in the amount of a pension to 80 years of age. This source will be subject to the condition that the person has not submitted an application or paid a pension from a social insurance or legal pension fund, which means that it cannot be chosen, for example, to start a pension from a pension fund or to postpone a pension from a insurance institution and then to be paid more money from the state. It is then suggested that pensions be rushed from 65 years of age by permanent effects on the amount of pension to be reduced. At the same time as it is desirable to encourage those who can and want to work longer, it is necessary to meet those who wish to start a pension earlier as soon as the overall pension age is increased. A report on a review of the social security law on which this bill is based also points out that a certain group may need specific measures as they cannot work long years because of wear and/or hard work without disability due to disease or disability. It is also suggested that you take half of your pensions from a 65 - year - old pension fund and postpone the take of the other half, which increases according to the rules of that pension fund and, at the same time, allowing half of your pensions to be paid from social security. Thus, the law allows half of the pension to be paid both in social security and in pension funds and to postpone the transfer of the other half. It is assumed that half the pensions will not be associated with the earnings of a pensioner. I would like to make a great deal of emphasis on the fact that the welfare committee is very comfortable with this arrangement. This is a new one, giving seniors a chance to go to half a pension, since it's not worth a living in any way. So here's a pension that doesn't have any income connections. The explanation of this is that pensions taken out of retirement age fall because of this reason, and calculations show that if the person's income is also affected, in many cases this would lead to little or no benefit from it and that many people will probably be able to benefit themselves in this strategy, for example Working half a job and getting an unscrupulous pension from both pensions and social security. In terms of the criticism that has been shown on the metropolitan income cut-off of the social security cut, I have particularly watched these regulations in order to help encourage older people to continue working but, in fact, to take out half of their pensions and, in fact, have the income they can otherwise earn. However, this proposal calls for a change in the law on the debt of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, which is in the financial and economic sectors involved in the expenses. So it is assumed that the implementation of this arrangement will be made on January 1, 2018, and that time will be used to work on a bill that allows people to take half of their pensions and to postpone the other half of their pensions and also to prepare such changes in both the social security and the pension system. What a change that would be! I know that when these suggestions have been introduced to older citizens, it has been specifically said of satisfaction that turns to anything that enhances the flexibility of the retirement process. Also, it says in the bill that the sources listed here regarding the initiation of a pension from 65 years of age will be subject to the requirement that the sum of acquired rights to pension and social guarantees should take into account the permanent reduction to the minimum of the full life span of social security at any given time. This is to prevent those who choose to start a pension before a general pension age has reached an insufficient income for the sake of their living would permanently decrease their pension when these sources were used. We've seen predictions of the growth of older citizens, the increase in average careers, have been changing the basis for the calculation of collection systems around the world, even leading to a loss of rights. It has also been so that increased longevity has increased the expense of social security systems. This is the big issue for governments around the world. Many countries have already taken steps to advance or expand their pension. It has been observed that most OECD Member States have recently made changes in their pension systems, including by increasing the minimum pension age. Governments have also taken action to limit the possibility of early pensions. In some respects, we are going in a different direction. The length of the pay period has been observed. Pension patients have been enabled to continue working together with a pensioner, which we watch in this bill. The payments of pensions have been linked to the expected average life span. In bill this, minimum pension age is expected to rise in steps from 67 years to 70 years, but that is only about the social security system, does not turn to the law on the pension fund as mentioned earlier. It is suggested that the rise in pensional age begin one year after the entry of the law, i.e. in 2018. Thus, those born in 1950 will gain the right to the age of 67 in 2017 according to current rules. Thereafter, there will be a process of growth that will apply to individuals born in 1951 and later. Thus, in 2018, pension age is expected to increase to 67 years and two months, then about two months each year until 2029, when the pension age will be 69 years. Thereafter, pension age is expected to increase by one month each year to 2041, when those born in 1971 and later may start taking a 70 - year - old pension. Criticism has also been shown on this law, and in both directions, it has been thought that it is a very long time, 24 years, to increase the pension age by these three years, while others have been worrying that we were going too fast. I have no doubt it will be even. what the committee will do well. When we have been looking at and getting data for the council because of the progress of the problem, we have considered what people have been doing elsewhere in the North countries, and this has often begun to increase the life - saving age in steps of certain years, as suggested, but then we have added a particular formula to the estimates of the generation or the status of the nation as a whole. Of course, we will remember if this information is requested. However, the Commission's review of Social Security emphasized the importance of minimum pension age being the same in both the Pension and Social Security, and therefore the need to make similar changes in terms of related insurance rights and the activities of pensions as are being proposed here for the Social Security Act. It would be reasonable to conclude that these two systems were consistent in their pension age. I know that there is a lot of work to be done on pensions and the equality of pension rights to different groups and that have been much discussed among the workers of the labour market, but we now have a different pension age between these systems, so it can be said to be the same situation, and harmony actually turns to other laws. It is also suggested that the age of 18 be replaced by a period of emphasis on pension. So here is another change in the way children are working to a pension age of 70 years, the period in which they can earn the right to a retirement pension in this country will be extended over three years if their practices continued at 16 years of age. It is suggested that the change occurs while the age of nursing is rising. The calculations on the effects of this bill show that those in the system, where no one is to be lowered, most of the pensioners will receive higher pension pay, especially those who receive money from the pension system and/or have income money. There is also some move, so those with a higher income, such as in the current system, may gain a little less than those with less income will get more. So there is an equation effect on these changes. If you make the income between 0.06100 you. K. This month, it is seen that approximately 98% of these changes will be increased by law and 96% of those who make income in the 100◯200 you have. K. per month. In order to prevent anyone from carrying a sharp item, provisional measures include comparing calculation according to older rules and new rules. The bill also expects the General Home to set up an experimental project on the transition to the payment of residents in nursing homes, which has been a major concern for the Aggressor organizations of the elderly, so the nursing homes do not lose their pensions but keep their pensions and pay directly for the general use of their homes. We've already been preparing for that kind of experiment. If the decision is made by the council to agree to bring it together in cooperation with the nursing home for this new arrangement, we would thus be able to increase the population self - sufficiency and eliminate the current payment system, which has long been highly critical. We want to remember that there will be as much as people in nursing homes and those who live at home and, of course, increase the individual's freedom of choice to decide which service they want in nursing homes. Certain changes are also expected to be subject to the payment of the provision of money to residents in nursing homes and hospitals who have lost their pension because of their stay. Once again, emphasis on simplifying the system. This bill is unmistakably associated with the cost of government funds, for it is difficult to see how the rights of the pensioner can be increased as much as they do without the advancement of the State's financial contributions. The added cost is the proposed system changes, and I've already described, especially the collaboration. In turn, we know that new years of nursing patients have earned more pension rights than they have lost, and this will affect the payment of social security that will reduce their government expenses. However, the rise in pensioning age will also offset the State's growing expenses, but this change is expected to take place in stages over a long period of time so that its effects will not be great at first. It will take time to prepare for these big changes. It is therefore suggested that the bill's translation be performed on January 1, 2017, and it is also suggested that the bill be set up as a license to delay the removal of a pension to up to 80 years of age and a license to pay half of the pension according to the 65 - year - old legislation will not be met until 1 January 2018. [[The president calls.]] This is a big deal, and I look forward to working with the council, and I know it will be well with a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u43	V.E.G. President. I'd like to direct some questions to the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. This is quite an important topic, although the bill we address here is only about to turn to pensioners. As you can hear, it became the highest. Ministers are all there to get everything that she wanted to say about it, and yet she had 30 minutes to do it. I'd like to ask the highest. For example, please contact the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses or write to the publishers of this magazine. 31 In commentes with the bill, an accessory that comes from the Ministry of Health and the Office of Economics and Economics, the cost of the bill. It is often in such chapters that most quickly read what the real changes are. However, according to the table on page 24. 31 I don't see any better than with the bill, the pension payments of those who are on the striped pensions from the social security system won't go up. I wanted to be absolutely sure before you think I'm sure I'm not correct; those on the striped pension don't raise anything with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u44	A respectable president. Like what? A senator here points out that it is here for a system change that I believe is very important. The committee, however, who made a suggestion to me stressed that there would be a review of how social security benefits in general would change for the future. What I've stressed about this is that we need to complete this system conversion and then take in and consider the changes that must be made about how improvements are increased, such as the improvements, and how we want to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister will answer and hear that my understanding is correct. I'm afraid there'll be a lot of pensioners disappointed to see this, but fine. There's something else I'd like to ask the highest. Minister out there, that has to do with what came in mind. magazines in the speech of the highest degree. Ministers earlier, and a way to simplify the system. I agree that the system is complicated, and there's a lot of things that would be perfectly simple. But I believe that there can be no costs of fairness or efficiency in the system. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. The minister to see Table 3 on page 24. Thirty-two on the bill. It shows that employment income will result in worse results for those who are married to each other and whose income is between 150 and 350 you. K. and those who live alone and have your income in the range of K. I'd like to ask about whether a minister is not concerned that he works against the flexibility of his retirement career, that it can prevent a group from wanting to work longer and that part - time. On the other hand, I would like to ask about the time frame for micro-piercing factors. Can we expect to receive another bill regarding the poor and their terms by the end of the council? Or what can the minister see in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u46	A respectable president. Almost all pensioners receive so - called income - related payments that have some other payments. Our calculations show that the bill will specifically match those with less income in the current system and have had to rely more on the social security system. Comments from older citizens' stakeholders have been made, not the overall organisations, but the individual member countries who have made comments that certain groups are going to get worse, but those who have the highest income in the system. We are adding support to those who have less or fewer incomes, but we reduce the support of those who make more money. Hv. A senator has studied the table on page 18. 31 and 32 C.E., but as with the pension fund, it shows, for example, those who are. has 400 of you. K. or higher gets worse in a new system. That's an estimate when you're around 450, 500 yous. K. In a month, he falls out of the system completely. So we're saying, if the Allied agrees, that once a person makes this high income, he will no longer be supported by the social security system. In contrast, we can increase our support for those who have less in their hands. It is also very clear as we watched gender. The majority of the money that goes into the system is especially useful for women who have had part - time jobs or even who have been late into the work market and are thus having limited pension rights. It's the same with men. However, regarding the question of the employment income, I stressed that the committee would specifically review the requirements that would take place and face half a pension, i.e. ... togetdownstrips. [[The president calls.]] It's new, it hasn't been in the system before, and I think it's going to use pensioners much better than the current arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u47	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. We would have needed more time to review this, but we obviously have to accept the coming mood, apart from the fact that it is 1st. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to the simple question: How much of the simplicity is this bill? That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. Minister that we could expect more elements in the future to simplify the system even more. I'm asking because I've long felt that the biggest problem with the social security system is complex, it's just the biggest problem because the rights protection is so difficult, users find it very difficult to understand their rights and find it hard to fight for them afterwards, regardless of the rules. It's before you even come to the discussion about rules. I notice that although things are certainly simplified on the bill, they do not seem to be the simple one that needs it. In short, I need much more simplicity. So I wondered, " What can we expect to show up in the future in order to simplify this? ' You see, I think if someone using the social security system reads this bill, he will notice things that do not seem to be necessarily simple with the user, but may simplify the case for the attorneys and for us who sit at the General or the head. Minister. One example is b-joint 7. which probably simplify things for us but appear to be complex and more overwhelming about the user. I know users find it hard to figure out how everything works. So I think there must be more going down. I'd like to ask you in general if there's more going to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u48	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. As I said in my speech, I don't think this will be the last change we make in our social security, I certainly hope not. I'm gonna mention the question that went to the microchip. I've been ready to do everything I possibly can to make a deal. However, it is never that everyone can get everything they want, that is when it comes to trying to compromise. This was achieved by the Committee on the Change That Faced Older Citizens. It is an important step. We want this out. We will, of course, fight to reduce the degree of impairment, to increase the improvement, and to the future, but they believed that the system change was so important that they agreed that it had to go through, that it had to be done, and that we should be able to get together on that. It's also like a whisk. A senator mentioned, we know that it can often be difficult to understand the bills we receive here. Hv. A senator pointed to P-T-T-T. Er, that sounds like this: ▪ Instead of the word "scarried " in Second Speech comes: sbr. Eight. 2. B., sr. also 3 mg. 16th c., turn down. What does that mean? We have, as I also mentioned in my speech, worked all this terms to re-evaluate the Social Security Act. Hv. A senator knows only how that work has worked, we take existing legislation, and we recycle the articles, so that when some articles come in, we actually read the overall law, and that will help us to understand. It is also a requirement that the Council has agreed to help with this, i.e. the right to better information, the correct information, just as a council party is required. A senator has placed great emphasis on, including ... requestingreportations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u49	A respectable president. I don't doubt it for one second to the highest. Ministers want to do everything within their power to simplify this. I think they're all on the same team when they're involved. But it's a big project. Like other members of Congress, I regularly get complaints from the users of the social security system, which has some complaints. When I've tried to figure things out, I've come across this extreme misunderstanding, and even if we find out about it here, it's the very understanding of the user that I'm more concerned about. We have experts to talk to us at committees, but users of the system simply do not have the option. They have personnel of the government's insurance agency, which is probably all they want to do to help, but, of course, users are not in the situation of being able to have the special service we have to explain how all of this works. I also realize that not everyone gets everything they want, there's nothing to do. I'd like to think that I like this bill, as I understand it now. Of course, we are in 1st. and you're going to take a closer look. I like the provisional principle especially good, I think it's preventable or active at least as a secure network. But at the same time, I can't help but feel a little bit like a dog. 8th yrs Reykv.. n. who admitted that users are likely to experience this as a cause of disappointment because the bill does not look so simple when compared with what is needed. That's why I'm sorry. I know it's the highest. Minister would like to rephrase this. I don't know if I can ask something further about this, but I wonder: Can you install some system that users can use to calculate their rights in order to try to beat with the system to their battle?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u50	Thank you. A senator for the inquiry because this is something that I have become increasingly interested in myself. I sank, for example. to the so - called behavioral economics when I was chairman of the SEC during the last term, and I have been increasingly studying how governments, such as the United States, have been working with me. In Britain, ideologies of behavioral economics have been used to shape a forwarding system, such as. The social security system, basic systems, so they'll be more useful in achieving the goals we set and reach people better so that they can better understand how our systems work. An example of this is when a decision was made to raise the income market. We talked about it, and everyone was very happy to be able to do it, and old - age pensioners thought that they could take advantage of it, they had a vacation rights, and they could earn a certain income. But because of the way the system is built up right now, I had one example on my desk where the person had received a reimbursement from social security. He had a 140 position. K. A year from a pension fund, a plan had been submitted but had also received an offer to earn 140 yous. K. He thought he could do it without it cutting his benefits. But because there is no holiday goal on the special supply, he was reimbursed. When we calculated how the bill would come out for this person, he came out a lot better. On the other hand, if he had a 140 pulse. K. in a month from a pension fund and a 140 fars. K. In employment, he would get less of a new system than in the present system. In this respect, I believe this will become a more just and better system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-07-148.u51	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize social security laws, social assistance laws and the law on the issues of the elderly, with subsequent changes. People benefit from it, it's such a simple reform system, a changed pension age, etc. I'm glad this bill's out. There's been quite a talk about it, and it's announced that there's a bill about the changes in social security laws, and I've noticed that pensioners, both pensioners, and micro-energy pensioners, have been quite excited to see what's going to happen in these bills and have hoped that changes will be made that will lead to their improved breasts. I'm afraid many people will be disappointed when they see this bill, but I'm not going to say that everything in it is bad, as it is. I think there's a lot of better things here, sure. However, it is already in reference to the bill that the cost of the country's new system and that this bill is estimated to be between 56.55.5 billion in 2017, which is quite a few coins, and that the cost will be fewer than 23 billion in the next few years. [[Foreground on: 33.]] I'm sorry? [[Take it up to 33 billion.]] 33 billion in the next ten years, excuse me. However, this is also shown in the tables on page 20. 31 That those who are solely paid by the social security system will not increase in payment by means of this bill. I think that many people will be very disappointed with this because those on credit will not be paid very well. This is now 212,776 k. to those who do not live alone and 246,902K. To those who live alone. That's quite a little bit of money. I'm thinking that most people would agree that they're not enough for alimony. The group of sensibilities on these striped incomes, with no other income, no pension income, or any other kind of income, suffers very much poverty. Happily, there are plenty of sensibilities who enjoy a much better term. Of course, it's a cause for joy, but I think that we must always keep this all-cheated group in mind and would have liked to see that he's getting a cutback right now. In fact, that's what we at the government stand at the General Assembly have been talking about during this terms, and that is why we held it. to change the budget. However, in this bill, I think it is very positive that there is a suggestion that special compensation will be added to a combined group that will then be a pensioner. I think it'll be a good dresser for those who want or can improve their position to make a movie with some sort of job involvement. Even if there are other weaknesses, I think it's a very important step, and I'm especially happy about it. But at the same time, I think it's going to be very disappointing for the micro-piercs that this is not going to work for them too, and in my opinion, there's something that I think will be right there. The welfare committee should make a very thorough examination and know if this law should not apply also to microorganization, since this law was, of course, set in to protect the benefit of those who are at the lowest in terms of the social security system and were put on the contract to draw up their income. In fact, however, because of the loss of dollars in return, it has caught people in a poverty trap. I think this is something that we're in here, we all agree we want to change. I'm going to point it out to you. welfare committees considering also extending this to the poor. V.E.G. Sadly, a minister did not have time to respond to me earlier in order to properly review whatever is involved in the role of disability in the near future. As mentioned in her case, there are estimates, and I know the highest. A minister would like to make changes that involve the disability, but it is more difficult or more complex, it should be accepted, since there are very divided opinions, it was clearly seen in the work of the work of the responsible committee and had its review of the social security system. There is quite a difference between what the Qualification Society can provide in these and other matters as well as members of the Committee, such as the Organization of Employment, to name an example. I realize that it's more complicated, but I think it would be a very important first step, especially if there's nothing to do to improve the quality of the micromath at this council. If no suggestions can be made before the end of the council, and the time is short, I think that, although it was only a matter of entering the special progress of some group of reformers that will also be greatly improved. Mr. President. This bill also suggests an increase in the age of pension. V.E.G. A minister did well over how insurance calculations have shown that there will be an increase in the pension age in order for the system to succeed. I'm sure that many people don't think so very well, but it's a little hard to argue with the figures in that subject. For me, the emphasis on flexible retirement is very important. I think many older cities have a great desire to remain active in a labour market despite the age of the age. I think it's really important, and that's why we even stood. to consider that it is more difficult for older people who lose their jobs to get new jobs than with younger ones. Then I'm not necessarily talking about people who are in pensions and not even a pension age in the present system. This is a very difficult point to deal with if there is no change in attitude in the workplace and in the community all because otherwise an increase in pension age simply leads to an increase in unemployment among older people. It's not good for anyone. At the same time, increasing the age of pensions is expected to result in an increase in disability in the oldest age groups, to be formed in the population of 67◯69 years of age. I think that's why it needs to be considered specifically to solve it, so that thought works out. Then I also find it worthwhile to give attention to this bill in the information of the older citizen's community in Reykjavík. They point out that they believe that the 45% decline in income and no cut-off target is too high, and at some point they suggested that they would like to continue this holiday target as it is today, 38.5%. It's something I feel like there's something wrong. The welfare committee should also take a very close look. So in the end, because time is running away from me, I'd like to mention the provisional principle discussed in paragraph 18. That a minister appoints a team of workers to implement and set up a research project for a new nursing home for payment of residents in nursing homes, who are supposed to go out to keep their pension payments but pay directly for their living. I think it's just the right way to think. I don't object to it, and I think it's a very good idea to do a test project on it. However, because people too are to pay for food, cleaning, laundry, and family activities along with their rent, a special attention is needed to be paid to those at the lowest pension price. Otherwise, I'm afraid we could create new ones and even more poverty traps for people who are already in a very narrow position. [[The president calls.]] This certainly cannot be the point of putting people who already live in poverty in an even worse position. [[The president calls.]]
