ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u1	Borist has received a letter from the procurator of the Independence Party that Elín Hirst, 13th. We're out of here. "I can't be a member of Congress anytime soon. So today, Reservation 1 is on the Independence Party list in the district, Óli Björn Kárason. Óli Björn Kárason has once sat at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again. Borist has a letter from the 10th. Smoke. n., Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, that he can't attend a meeting at his next session. So today, at General 1st, a deputy of Pirata's district name, Halldóra Mogensen. Halldóra Mogensen has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is welcome back to work. Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Group members for the year. 11th. We're out of Suðvest. "Katrín Júlíusdóttir, can't attend a conference next time. So today, at Council II, a deputy of the United States Association's list of districts, Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir. The first deputy in the district art has announced ahead of time. Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir, who has taken up residence in the past, is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u2	There's gonna be time for a meeting at the same time. 1,915 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u3	A respectable president. I'm going to call the president's attention to the sixth part of the program, through the electrons to the industrial field at Backka. It was shown here on Friday at the time. Work committee, to the top. The minister of the environment had taken part in the fact that the committee would not be answered in a material way as regards matters of opinion on this matter of Congress. It must be most reprehensible that environmental ministers actually prevent material responses from getting to a Senate committee. For this reason, I requested to the chairman of the committee, informing a respectable president that I requested that the council's office take the lead in reviewing the arrangement of Article 3. The bill, for the change in nature protection laws. I don't think that changes in nature protection laws will pass through the Environment and Resource Ministry, which has the legal issue. I wished, in the light of this situation, for the council to cross this itself. This was the case with the president, and it has been requested that committees take a specific look. As a result, I believe that we should wait to start a discussion on the 6th topic until the council concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u4	The president can confirm that as a dog. A senator was saying. This work is already started. The President's plan is to start the discussion on this particular matter below and to note that there will be a halt at the council meetings from the end of the day. 12 o'clock. 15 And so the time and space should be set aside to discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u5	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. It is hard to believe that this is a Friday hearing when it is being concluded that our request on the Environment and Transport Committee for the Environment Ministry on the matter's Environment, long wait, is explained by the order of the Ministry of Ministers and Ministers to fail to respond to the Commission's inquiry on a case where the main objective is to make changes in nature protection, in a case in addition to four or five different laws that all of which are under the Environment Ministry. I don't remember witnessing that a similar practice has to be observed before, but, of course, it has to be done carefully. This shows how the whole litigation arrangement is in this case and how repugnant it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u6	A respectable president. I come up here to make a comment at the President's conference board on 6th. This is October 10th, which is the date mentioned by the Committee on Resources as a day that they could be prepared to give their opinion on the charges of Land Protection on a current project. I object that this is a case where laws are removed when normal processes are still in place and the work is being done normally. We're not supposed to have this thing on the agenda. There's supposed to be a normal way to go. I object that a minister would come in with such a worrisome choice to take the lead in the natural process. It does, in the strength of the opinion that lawyers working for Landsnet deal with, and it is discussing the rightness of the Landsnet. There is obviously a lot of willingness to work around here, and we are not supposed to do that kind of work at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u7	President. I agree that it is normal and perfunctory to take this discussion out of the program in view of the possibility of reaching decisions. It's natural that the D.A. board is allowed to complete its work. We are now on the final meters for elections to complete a variety of cases, and I believe that in view of the decision being beyond the corner, we should present this case as far back on the program as possible, so that we will show the law that we ourselves are representing here in solidarity, the respect for the general law in the country, and that the security of the citizens is being protected so that we do not perform such unfavourable legislation that is involved in only one act of law that is not proper.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u8	President. I wondered, " Is this matter a mistake?'Of course, the president is aware that some contracts are being made on the third floor. The last time I knew it, it had not been accepted. They all know that this decision is coming this week, and why are evil blood being passed in the hall and the council if there's no need for it? There is no need for a schedule of this subject today, none, and it is quite unbelievable to put it as first issue after votes. It just means that there will be no peace in the council until the matter is resolved because there is no solution, Mr President. That's why I must ask the president if the case is not on the agenda by mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u9	The president wants to answer that there is no mistake, that's the president's decision in view of the fact that the committee has been turned over and not just that, but since that particular change has been made, which was precisely a factor of Article 3. and the conclusion of the majority of the Committee is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u10	A respectable president. First, a few words of the General's access to government officials and their expertise in promoting the most careful legalization and the most effective monitoring role. It must also be the president of the council, and indeed the Committee to Presidency, if the Senate does not have access to expertise in the Ministry for political reasons. It is fundamental that we use the knowledge we have in our system of government, the funds we spend to hire experts, that the General always has access to whatever government or which categories are involved in the Ministry, or in what department of this matter may be available. Second, I would like to ask the president if his comments should be understood as though the case is being discussed here. until the opinion of the head attorney of the Generals on the case is complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u11	This is not the way the president's comments should be interpreted. Of course, the matter is scheduled with the aim that the discussion can be completed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u12	A respectable president. What has happened here is that more than a part of the employment committee has made a suggestion for a change of Article 3. The case, made up for now by the Ministry of Industrial Affairs. There's no agreement here on that change. It's just the same democracy in the majority of this case that we've been through. The fact is, the upcoming of this case is activated in the publication of a projection, there is a process that is under way, and more of it here at the council is entering this process because it does not want to get results. Or because he wants to decide. That's the way it is. Of course, it would be much more neat of the current administrative sector and those on this matter just to present a case in which the Ministry of the Environment in Iceland has been submitted. That's what's being done here on this matter. This is the degradation of the Environment Ministry, which was actually referred to at the beginning of this terms and, in fact, only the member states can be congratulated by their success.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u13	President. It is remarkable how this government has behaved in the environment. It's amazing. There wasn't even a environmental minister for a long time. They then appoint a environmental minister who has no idea what the group is talking about. Then it is just so that a minister does not handle the issues the Environment Ministry should handle. That's just the way it is, Mr. President. What's going on today is such a disgrace to the seminary, disrespect to the common people, disrespect to free groups, and disrespect for the democratic process. This is shameful, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u14	To answer, financial and economic ministers, industrial and business ministers and social and housing ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u15	Mr. President. Now for the weekend, the core published a news report from local taxpayers, which covers the distribution of funds in the country. It shows that in recent years capital pay has increased considerably and has been in 2015 at $95.3 billion. The focus of these figures is that 44% of these funds went to the richest of 1 percent of the population, i.e. The group earned 44% of all the money paid by the Icelandic taxpayers last year, which actually means that 99% of the population divided them by 56% during 2015. There is then another report in the newspaper on pay development in the country that says that half of all paid pay last year went to two of the highest earners and is quoted in Iceland's Habitat Office. This trend has increased significantly in recent years, and it is suggested that in 2015 of the $200 billion paid in excess of what was in 2013, two out of three dollars will be paid, and more than that, to the top of two earners, i.e. to the 40,000 people who earn most and possess most of their possessions in this country. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he's concerned about the trend, which could be more difficult to look at, although Iceland has been a success at the Gii Index for the past few years. Tells you the highest. Does a minister consider a reason to make any changes in the tax system to create, in order to increase the equation, especially in view of the fact that more and more international studies indicate that more equations also provide an increase in economic prosperity? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u16	Mr. President. The last time OECD controlled an even country, Iceland came to the top. Before 2013, no country could be located in the OECD states where there was an even greater equation than in Iceland. There are two factors mentioned here; one on the other hand, the growth of capital gains by a certain group of people in the country. This should not be surprising. There's been a very large rise, e.g. in stock markets, and to expect that when such times are such, it is especially for those who have savings where money is due. At the same time, it was the number one who lost most of the money money and in general the income in the collapse. It also points to an inefficient increase in income over the past few years and points to a specific report in this context. According to the same report, the number of property of all the people of the country has increased in the range of 13◯20%, the holding of all income levels. That's wonderful news. It is news far beyond what other nations have so much as hoped for. That's good news. There's news of good news in Iceland and there's news that our increase in prosperity is getting to everyone. However, we are to observe it as a matter of course. A senator says that it is to everyone, and more fortunately it has. Remuneration has also increased in the earner's highest income. But that was exactly why. A senator who came up here, for example. In the medical debate, we spoke of raising the wages of the highest wage, the specialists in the hospitals, and the other ones, so that the terms would be comparable to what happens best elsewhere. When we fight for such a course, we, of course, increase the pay of the most and have the best. Should we respond to that position by raising taxes? I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u17	Thank you very much. A minister of clear answers, clear answers so that he does not want to respond to the fact that we could be seeing an increase in the inequities of the country. That's right, topv. Secretary quotes figures from 2013 and 2014. We're talking about this trend occurring in 2014-2015. It is true that it is an economic rise, but these figures clearly show that it is not divided in equal terms. We could see to it, and I guess we'll see to it, if this goes up as this has been testified, data from the government tax manager and data from Iceland's Hauspic Office, that we're going to go back to indiscriminately. That's where it's at the highest. A minister wants to leave when he says here that he doesn't see that this is going to be done by a change in the tax system? Does he not feel that it is normal to be equal in the country, especially in the light of what I quoted earlier, that the equation is not just about political criticism, it is about an increase in economic prosperity whole over. This can be seen only by comparing ourselves with other countries in which there is an equality and the research that has been done. [[The president calls.]] I think there's every reason to stop and worry about where we're headed when we see these numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u18	A respectable president. I appreciate that. In the time of this government, we have promoted tax reductions that have specifically paid off to the intermediate traders. We have removed our steps, and we have also lowered the lowest level. These tax reductions have yielded more than otherwise to middle - income workers and low - income workers. I don't know exactly what to do with it. A senator is, in effect, leaving when she describes his concern that capital pay is due to those who have savings. It is asked: Should we respond to it through taxation? The next step is, in effect, to say: We don't want people buying stocks or stocks or heads having capital money money because they may be able to increase the level, or: we have to somehow tax ourselves from that reality. There is no way to interfere with the way people use their savings. There's no way to run a community. We should rejoice that everyone, including those with the lowest wage, will benefit from the gift of life. There is a duplication and paradox in that the pay of doctors should be increased so that they are competitive, but they must be put on the third tax step and then to increase the capital tax if they put something aside. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u19	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. Budget and economic ministers, and they're in places similar to what they're dealing with. A senator before that, i.e. wondering about the tax returns. We've been very much discussing the need for infrastructure, the need for structure in various welfare systems and the highest. A minister has often and rightly pointed out that further expenses are linked in terms of financial balance, etc. Then we must look at the income of a government fund that comes primarily from taxes, and it is important to think that taxes are not in nature bad, but, on the contrary, necessary, natural income for joint projects. So I'd like to think about it, and ask the highest. Minister, what steps have been taken, and what is the position of measures to prevent tax evasion? Some of the largest political bomb of this election season was published by the Panama Documents where it was found that 600 Icelandic legislatures had bills in taxes, and during the election season, data was purchased on Iceland's property that had been submitted to taxes in taxes. I wanted to listen to him. Ministers to the situation and how he generally felt about these matters. I may be more concerned with other aspects of the taxation given in a second talk, but you are wondering that in a government contract the highest. Governments were specifically spoken of dealing with social security. I'd like to hear how it's been going, get a little report at the end of the season.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u20	A respectable president. First, there is only a brief period of government income, tax pay, and other income. They have gone on growing, they have grown year by year. We have dropped the tax rate to the income tax, especially on low income and middle income earners, but still the income from the income tax has been very successful. We've also made a effort to strengthen the value of the tax system, we've dropped the percentage to the lowest extent it's ever been since the system was created, 24% worth tax is the lowest we've ever had, but the merit tax system is returning a lot more money because we've improved the taxes and the rest of the tax system. The tax returns well in Iceland, and the government budget's business reflects it. We have a basic equation with the highest known in Europe. It's equal in terms of government interest for finance. That doesn't change it as a dog. A senator points out that we know of tax frauds, we know the lead, we know of illegalities that must always be followed and addressed. The black economy is too big. We in the government have made sure that these matters are handled by ensuring sufficient funds for the services they are doing. In some respects, I think that there is reason to ask ourselves, " Has that office been busy in recent years in certain posts? ' It's been a lot of hard work and time - consuming work, but we know that, in some cases, there have been conflicts, I'm an example of a black industry conflict in Iceland through field visits, I also mention a special view of the Airbnb test that has been very discussed. I'm of the opinion that we must simply make sure that we have a well-finished office that has room, time, and resources for monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u21	A respectable president. I agree that the design and funding of an office are very important, but the rules are also involved. That's why I only mentioned it in a previous inquiry about what had been done to help with the social security and whether there had been some significant result of that work. We know that the average Icelander pays his taxes, and it's been a fine way to collect his income taxes and worth extra taxes. Nevertheless, we live in a system where some may be able to use a tax bill. Some companies have a chance to make use of their own small financial resources. I think it's pretty clear that that that arrangement is not completely at peace. I'd like to reiterate the question to the highest level. A minister of measures against social security and if he doesn't agree with me that this is a key not only when it comes to the public but also to companies as well as to those who have a special opportunity to monitor them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u22	A respectable president. There are certain issues that have been particularly focused on individual activities, smaller companies and social security. I mention, as an example, the button so-called, which aims to simplify all company communication with an organisation that assumes that those who do not return will be removed from the registry and that the surveillance is simplified and enhanced. Social security is not just a problem from the tax system. Rather, it is a much more serious matter in terms of normal, healthy competition. It is intolerable for small and medium-sized enterprises, or any exchange, that competitors always come up with a new and new social security number, do not provide legal fees, etc. Other than that, in the case of debino societies, people know that we have put in here repeatedly suggestions, bills, and I will also submit a report on what I was preaching in spring on the scope of their case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u23	A respectable president. It is true that at the end of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government, Iceland was at the top of an equation in controlled lands. But I ask the procurator of the Independence Party not to take credit for that success. It was discovered because we finally got four years, where the Independence Party did not succeed. Under the leadership of the Independence Party, there was an inexorably rapid increase in economic collapse. He's growing again. Does not the head of the Independence Party simply say that this is the course of the party, that he is pleased with this success, with increased inequities? He has increased food taxes in the public, but he has reduced taxation on counterfeiters. It's not just about earnings. There is also an inequities in the division of property. The top portion increases its share, even proportionately, half as much as the lower portion. Then we must ask a respectable minister of finance on the property of the richest people in Iceland, why he wasn't extended, whether because the head of the Independence Party is simply content that the richest people in Iceland increase their possessions much more than anyone else in the country. Show these numbers not black in white, top. Secretary of finance, that the richest 5,000 homes in the country could well have continued to pay 10 billion each year to survive the building of the Land Hospital, a powerful health system, and a stronger pension policy? Or was this the conscious direction of the category to increase in inexorability, not only in the income section, but also in the building of property, contributing to the growth of the richest object in Iceland more rapidly than anyone else in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u24	A respectable president. I think this speech is a fine testimony that the Conspiracy has no right side or center. She's become a stiff left category. First, it was promised by the United Nations secretary of finance that the wealth tax would be taken away. They'd make it run out. It was a special promise for elections. But now it's time to beat the government here for not extending the tax. Another question is, Why don't you just say it right out that you want some to have it better than others? Well, I'm just saying, why don't you just say it right out that if some people are going to do something better than others, it's your goal to level that one back with taxes? You just say it right out. I don't want anyone to have it better than anybody else. It's only fair that the situation would be balanced with taxes. Why don't you just say it right out? We're not such a party. We do not ridicule others because some are doing better than others. It's just that way. We want a fair tax system that makes sure everyone gets back. Thus, the income tax system is today; a higher proportion of the pay is returned as the pay is higher. In terms of property taxes, they are being abolished everywhere. Now, it would be nice to know whether a person would be proclaiming it here for a return to property taxes, which was mentioned as a special justification for the wealth tax of his time that he was only temporary. It was the logical support of the Supreme Court when tests were made to test its administrative value that it should be maintained because it was temporary. Our tax proposals have been designed to reduce the weight of the intermediate traders, the underpayers, and those who have had more money between their hands than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u25	A respectable president. Of course, some have it better than others. It has always been, and so it will always be. The question here is, Is it possible for a general and a government to increase the inequities, to give them a larger part of the cake, to give the richest ones a larger portion of the property than anyone else? Therefore, Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, has to give a clear answer to whether it is not clear, of the current figures that have been published, that the richest taxes paid by the 5,000 richest homes in the country could have followed the goats as he was always supposed to, were extended to the oceans throughout this ideal period, and thus returned tens of billions of dollars to the common fund, and reduced the increased inequality we watch in this ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u26	A respectable president. What we thought right was simply that taxes that had been introduced into history as temporary taxes would run their course. We also felt that it was right to eliminate an exception for a broil that had been passed on to the left government. By doing so, we took some 40 billion of the other population's population and financial resources that we raised the taxes. We put the taxes on the market, we put the taxes on the financial companies, and we took the taxes from the homes. We made a special contribution to the domestic income taxes, took a number of official fees for reimbursement, disintegration of product charges, and tolls. I think there is reason to remind you that when it came to customs, we were using a completely new ideologies. We weren't gonna wait for the next vacation deal. We simply watched that these customs were laid in the homes of the country, and it was time to take them off. We did so and thus helped with all the local homes, although others would like to see them in a different light.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u27	A respectable president. I recommend to members of the European Commission advising a share of the job roads and a change form of bill for the National Network Corp Act. to build and fire 220 kV electrical lines from the Kritas Station to Thematic Implicit activation and to the industrial region of Bakka, in the Northern Parliament. The committee discussed the matter and attended a number of visitors, including from the Department of Employment and Development, the Environment and Resource Ministry, the Presidency and then from many stakeholders, including rural groups, from Land Protection, Fjöggis, France. With law No. 41/2013 was authorized by a minister to finance infrastructure because of the work done in Bakka, Northern Parliament. Before that time, there had been a long period of work construction in the Philippines. Following the PCC SE representatives of the German firm, an interest was expressed in the driving of a baloney in Bakka was signed by the government and rural areas of the region by a declaration of cooperation in energy efficiency and building infrastructure. There had to be a clear attack on massive infrastructure, so the above laws were approved at the General Assembly. Then the Icelandic state signed an investment agreement with PCC SE and with the PCC TraySilicon Inc. In addition to the agreements for the sale and transport of electricity in other countries, Landsnet and the Landsnets have been developed. PCC TraySilicon Corp. has begun the work of a silica plant in Bakka in Húsavík, and it is estimated that production will begin there in the fall of 2017. A landnet applied for a partner-in-the-partal workforce to build electrical lines so that it could meet the needs of the factory. Environmental evaluation for the lines ended in 2010 and is expected in a region of high temperature in the Parliamentian county of 2007-52025 and in the main community organization of the Northern Parliament, the House of America, and the Skulls of Strategies. In addition, environmental impacts of transport workers have been evaluated in a number of processes, as shown in the comments to the bill. The protocols for the line lines were issued in April and June 2016. The release of the permits was later charged, and in June and August of this year the Commission of Environment and Resources decided that the implementation of line lines should be stopped while the case would be taken into account for the committee. Generally, laws do not apply to events that occurred prior to their validation. In November 2015, new nature protection laws went into effect, but the above statements refer to them and to their implementation status, even though the law was given when all the above procedure was mentioned. The decisions upset the progress of the situation, and this is the opinion of those involved that rural, business and public members will be seriously affected. Already the work has been shut down on lines, costing the land net tens of millions of dollars, and it can be assumed that the company's further damage will be lost more. At that time, the North Council has made significant investments in infrastructure because of the project and delays due to its projects will lead to the failure of their exposure to direct and indirect loss of income. Other rural areas are also affected by tata, i.e. due to the delay of remuneration and income due to real estate costs, as well as investment in infrastructure through the project. Investment of PCC TraySilicon Corp. has a high value of 40 billion. which, in part, is funded by Icelandic pension funds. In addition, the road structure has attached large amounts of money to tunnels and roads between Húsavík and the industrial region of Bakka. This bill suggests that the Landsnet receives special permission to build and run electrical lines from the Krate Center to Theistleinactivation and the Backfield. It is conditioned that the Landsnet will follow the same conditions as those recommended in local activities and are listed in 2 mg. 1st par. The bill. In other words, the bill agrees with the existing strategy of rural society. Two. the bill is that the licenses that have already been issued fall out and in 2 mg. The same article includes the monitoring of the project by the local organisations and providing the sources of organizational legislation and the implementation directive. That's 3rd. provisional measures are required to add to the protection laws of nature to levels of 37rd. Law on Nature Protection, No. 44/1999, version requirements allowing assessment of environmental impacts to be met by law on nature protection, No. 60/2013. The bill ensues the challenge of Skull Status Stumps, the House of Nations, and the Northern Parliament. It describes a great deal of concern over the situation and asks that the government or the Council take action to solve the knot, as any community policy of land use will be carried out. The bill and the management of the Commission reports that there has been a consultation before the bill was submitted and that there has been a search for a way to communicate. The work did not work as it should, and it is thought that if the lineworks need to be changed, as well as that the Landsnet needs to reevaluate environmental impact assessments with the associated delays. As mentioned earlier, the preparation for employment construction in the northeastern region has lasted many years. In addition to signing contracts, there are established planning programmes. Because of the above changes in November 2015, circumstances and projects that had advanced in preparation are unforeseen. The majority feel that the position that has come up is unique and that it is impossible to react. The majority feel that all alike are desirable in terms of existing laws and rules and that the bill under discussion could hardly be paralleled later unless there are very important interests. At the same time, the more part points to legal space and to respond, he feels that there is a lack of substance in the set field and if public interest requires a cutting off of the knot. The majority suggest a change to Article 3. The bill in order to limit the duration of the law, so new protection laws should be followed on leave provided on December 31, 2017. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with this adjustment. It's what you're gonna sign. The members of the assembly, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Pálsson, Höskuldur, Þórhallsson, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egil.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for the suggestion that the greater part decides to contribute to the change of the bill recommended by the minister, i.e. the change in the 1999 dilatation of the environmental protection laws is not applicable to licenses given after December 1, 2017, but not intermittently. I want to ask you why. A senator's opinion of who was suggested that it be concluded by the Committee and ask him to explain the evidence of the Ministry of Industrial Affairs there. Then I'd like to ask. A senator with regard to political opinions. Now it has been observed that there is a retrospective concern that there is a legal intervention, as well as that by a specific law it is except for a court of law, which is thus decommissioned and by a specific law tied to an end to a truly successful lawsuit. The question is whether or not. A senator believes that all opinions are answered there. Finally, I'd like to ask you why. A member of Congress on the fact that LOGOS made a memo about the Ásse Treaty and felt that the bill would not compromise with that contract, then it was revealed to the committee that LOGOS had only discussed Article 1. The bill, but not 2. g. We can do better in our second answer. But the fact that the Ásse Treaty on the case is not satisfactory with regard to experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u29	A respectable president. In the 3rd. The bill says: ◯ We stipulate in the laws on nature protection, No. 60/2013, with subsequent changes, will be added to the new figure as follows: despite the 61st requirement. Suits 37th. Law on Nature Protection, No. 44/1999, for implementation of permission, there is an assessment of the environmental impact carried out by laws on nature protection, No. 60/2013.◯ This is meant to affect other projects that are far in preparation, and it has been criticized that these laws are not limited to this project on the Back. According to a memo issued by the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, there would be a special law and a special appeal to this particular project, if so. So the law needs to be general, but we put it on this sunset law and apply it in 2017. Of course, it's because I think general opinions, at least in the greater part, have to be viewed as being the changing of nature protection laws in this regard and the organizational processes involved in the preparation of projects. It is very important that the application permit is released earlier in the procedure so that it is not possible to reach the source position on the Back. It is quite clear to me and to many others who said that the sentence of new laws on nature protection was not the idea that this could have a retrospective effect on the projects that had come so far in preparation, as it actually shows on Backka. It enthusiast, a respectable president, that if such an arrangement were under way and in our legislation there would be little work to be done here, a small number of people would put on heavy work and expense to go to major projects if they were to oversee that they would be stopped in the final meters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u30	President. Thank you. Senator. It is said in his case that humans believed that the legislation was too specific and that it did not stand to the viewpoints of competition and discrimination, so the legislation had to be expanded, the law has to be universal. I'd like to ask you why. In view of its general origin, whether he feels that it is more likely that the precedent of the legislatures will be increased by a member of the council. In the history of the minister, it was intended that the legislation be directed solely to meet the position that had come up north of the lines associated with Backka. Now it must be no longer specific and must be universal. I want to ask you why. A senator on how he sees this contradiction and how he can back it up. I'd also like to ask him about it because now the so - called sunset rules show that this change does not apply to licenses granted after 31 December 2017: this change in law. A senator is measuring for and at the highest. Ministers and more of the Committee for Aggressive Enforcement? Is she referring to lines on the Smokey Peninsula? Does it refer to road construction projects that have already undergone environmental impact and are in the implementation phase? Does it refer to projects in many parts of the world that have already undergone environmental impact assessments and are in a business phase? I want to ask you why. A senator in charge of this and eventually what is the danger of the precedent of this law. Is the lawsuit worth anything if it's done right now? What is the risk that more of the futures at the General Assembly that are dedicated to it will make the equivalent bill of all unpleasant issues caused by environmental organizations? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u31	A respectable president. First, I would like to say that it is, of course, a very broad-scale lawsuit that can take place at many levels in preparation for such major projects and that we have greatly added to our legislation in that area in recent years. It is normal for humans to be charged, and there is a lawsuit in both environmental and other aspects on the way. It's become a very complex and dramatic process. That has even been true. It has been pointed out by many sources that we have even too complicated and time - consuming process at this level. It was shown in the Department of Industrial Affairs that the legislation must be general, otherwise it would have been charged with the violations of an EEA contract to ESA. Does this make it more likely? No doubt all our laws and actions here at the Council have any precedent, but as I said before, I suppose, no matter what governments will be in power after election, that changes will be made because the will of the legislature of the legislature could not have been ordering matters in the way that appeared here to us, that at the last level of projects, major projects that have been invested for billions of dollars, tens of billions of dollars, even more and more, they may be able to bring up a charge of charge to all people on the basis of that project. No one will start in any way. It will be our responsibility to adapt the legislation to this and to advance the implementation of the Agency's license into the process so that it can be discussed with other decisions. Whether this affects Hlaming Syndrome, Smokenes Line or Road Work or any other project, a project was named in the Ministry's memoir. This, of course, applies to the tasks, as the text says after the entry of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u32	A respectable president. It draws up that this hall is being opened a puzzle, but this special law should only have electrical lines for Backka. Here's what it says. The head of the pro board that the law will affect other projects, I have it. In particular, this operation, the option to enter a legal process, should apply only to these lines because there were so much financial interests at stake, there would be contaminated industry at Backka, and there would be abundant activation of the Continents and the need to set lines between them. There are so much financial interests at stake, we just had to do it with a bad mouth, they said. But now it's time for other lines too. A mix-up line? Is that not also true of her? It's been opened on here. There is no shyness to admit it. That's why we never should have agreed to these laws here. We're supposed to let the Commission of Environment and Resources decide for themselves, do their job. She was expected to come back today. Today. But it was evident that people were afraid of their conclusions and their progress in this matter. It is preferable that existing laws, such as those, were presented at the same time. The head of the pro board. When must we not go to law? Senator? Is it when it is not suitable for the big business and the industrial policy of this government? When should the law be followed, and when should it not be carried out? Is that the case with our senators? [[The president calls.]] It would be nice to know when we should proceed to the law in this room and when we should not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u33	A respectable president. Of course, there should always be law in this country. I've never implied anything else. In fact, there have been cases in the Supreme Court that affect the right community, e.g. in planning laws, where the former Supreme Court. Environment Minister was sentenced to the Supreme Court for failing to enforce the law. The same top one. Environment Minister said that the law would have nothing to do with it because it was in its place to protect nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u34	When did she say that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u35	But as for that, as a matter of course. þm. Björt spoke of, i.e. For other projects, if it was knowledge of certain members of Congress when new nature protection laws were legalized that they had a significant impact on existing projects where all legal procedures were being carried out and, in fact, were thoroughly used as in the case of Bakka, that they would have a significant impact on the possibility that the project could be stopped at such a long time, it was not shown in the discussion of those laws. [[Up front.]] I don't know one member of Congress who was aware of it when we set up the laws that went into effect in November 2015. Keep in mind that preparation for this work began ten years earlier or more. I don't know that this has ever been done by means of a tool for implementing all legal procedures, has come very far, have spent a great amount of money and time in preparation, that it was the goal of nature protection laws to reinvent them and be able to change the basis of the earlier projects. Of course, we need to change the law. And with regard to this pollution industry at Bakka, it is now a project that occurred during the last term, including who were then members of the Synod but are now in the Bright Future, they voted for it at the time, just to be said, the contaminated industry there. [[The president calls.]] Yes, the size of Bakka's coat pollutes eight times more on a ton than on each plant. But this was justified, and the project has come very far. As noted in my talk on the factory next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u36	A respectable president. I don't take responsibility for what the former government did during the last term, but I take responsibility for it and believe it is my duty that we don't continue with the dreary policy of setting up here on a polluted industry in Iceland. Enough of that. Although something was accepted ten years ago that was nonsense, it doesn't do anything better, and we're supposed to stop now. Now that we have a chance to stop this, I want to do it. The bad choices made ten years ago are still bad. This is where we're talking about these laws. They've become something to some extent. It is not allowed to have normal progress because they are so afraid that the results of the Environmental and Resource Commission will be that the line needs to be placed in some way other than the Landsnet wants. The key issue here is whether there will be a little more consideration for nature in this regard. It can't even be done. We are in a bad place in terms of protection from nature when special interests are so vast in this room. Only about the law. If you have to explain the progress of the case, it's so complicated, this protection laws are all so complex, these frame rules are all so complex. But that's not the way it is. It's very simple. There was no lawsuit for Land Protection and Fjords until the work permit was given. There's no other court of law. [[The president calls.]] It may be that a person wants to change that. But now we're dealing with something, and we need to get it out of our way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u37	A respectable president. There's some kind of misunderstanding if they say we're here talking about framework laws. They have nothing to do with this matter, so that it should be kept ready. Special interests are vast. A tragic trend for the pollution of our industry is to be taken care of. What group of people has the goal of increasing their industry in this country? Not a single pack. In a professional committee, a synopsis proposal was made on springtime as the highest rate. In the coming years and decades, the Minister of Industrial Affairs proposed new investments in Icelandic employment. There, representatives of the United States, the left green, adversaries, and the independents of a common committee view of how we see these investments exactly take place in a smaller industry based on energy - related industry, 5◯50 MW, which we could spread as far as possible in the country and create an application for the country's settlement to increase the diversity of employment and valuables in this country. The only agent on a job board that wasn't with all the other parties in the Senate arrangement was a representative of the bright future. þm. Björt. [[Up front.]] It's just not about the vision that there's supposed to be some big business in the future, not just the other way. We all agree on that, and I think so. A senator knows, but she chooses to be here with some outback in some political charade.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u38	You know better than I do, you must have. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u39	The case doesn't have a normal course, is it? Senator. What does it mean to have normal success with Icelandic law? Is it natural to be prepared according to current laws for some work, having received that grade, including the following: From the national protection confirmed in a letter that other rural areas in the country should imitate the ways in which they were preparing for this matter? [[Up front.]] How can the citizens of this country plan and start with some project or make any decision if the Allied council can think of just one day of putting together laws that the senators say are repetitive and the projects stopped? It is the city's right that such a thing does not interfere, and it has never been around here at the General Assembly that the law can be repetitious in such a way. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're changing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u40	A respectable president. One more ride, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, up here, says something wrong. He claims that at some point in my office, I was told as environmental minister that the law wasn't my concern. It's a sad thing to do. A senator should have to bear a lie, but it may say something about his position in his case here. This is wrong. The discussion was that it was a matter of opinion as to whether civilization might be paid to the development of an organization. Although not mentioned in the law, the court concluded that it was permitted. What did the minister do then? Added the conclusion and did two things; adopted the organization by its signature, and made adjustments in the corresponding laws for explanation. I'm asking a respectable president to discuss this situation with you. A senator, and a deputy member of the House of Independence Party, making him aware that it is not going to work here to hold the members of Congress repeatedly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u41	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, over the length of a conference, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Congress puts on. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president? - It's not, so it's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u42	President. For fuck's sake. paritaprevir Kristján Möller I hereby serve my opinion of the 1st part of the employment committee on a warrant for Landsnet Corp. to build and fire 200 kV wires from the Council to The States and to the Industrial Areas of Bakka, the Northern Parliament. The bill discussed here is for a number of specific reasons, but mostly because of a very unexpected situation that has come up and that is not supported by people in the important projects in the industry in the country of Bakka, i.e. the construction of a silica plant on Húsavík, Theist dam, and between. This situation is due to the provision of temporary decision-making committees of environmental and resource resources following the release of Dear Land Protection and Fjorgs in the Mey Sea Force, where the implementation of two member members is charged and the project is completely shaken. A major reason for this situation is that the Allied Council did not legally legalize the laws of new environmental protection laws required on November 15, 2015. A legal right to a project that has been started and that has been worked by the current legislation at the time, i.e. As planning and assessment of the activities, including lineworks, were carried out. For several decades work has been done on job construction in the Netherlands, which is based on the utilisation of the natural resources of the region, which ended with the signing of a declaration of will between then Iceland's Government and four rural communities in the region, i.e. Northern Parliament, Strulling Sturms, Fleet Corps, and Tjorn, to cooperation in energy efficiency and building infrastructure to deal with the long necessary industrial structures of the region, as previously said, for decades. In the spring of 2013, the Director of prosecuting and innovation proposed a bill for a Minister on behalf of the Government to finance infrastructure for the project and to be approved by law on March 28, 2013, with a large majority of the and support of all the members of the General Assembly. The case was highly supportive and was finally brought to a final stage, so there was no way of accomplishing it. The General passed a large part of the EU Member States' legislation on the basis of a policy agreement on a silica plant in the Northern Parliament, No. 52/2013. As a result, significant investments due to employment construction were launched in the northeastern region. This was linked to an investment agreement between the Iceland Government and the PCC SE and the PCC TraySilicon Corporation. As a result, agreements were made for the sale and transport of electricity in both the Landsification and the Landsnets. On the basis of the electricity deal, Land activation began building stage 1 Theistar Intensification Impairment to ensure energy consumption, including for the industrial field on Backcoat. The activation process is on schedule, as land activation will be able to achieve its agreement on energy sales to the PCC TraySilicon Corporation. Late 2017, as agreed. Landsnet hf. has been working for a long time to prepare the necessary transport workers to meet the above structure in the region and to complete environmental assessments due to planned implementation in 2010, in the presence of the Agency's opinion. Reports received from assessments of the environmental impact of the projects did not indicate that opposition to society and the environment is being carried out. Thus, in accordance with the regulations of the law, the environment assessments the environmental effects of the required transport workers of Landsnet hf., Krka Line 4 and Holeasand Line 2, which are now compared to the terms "Current Line 4, " and the Trinitarian Art Type 1 220 kV. It should be noted that the executive's decision is to build the lines as 220 kV lines. The decision is based on evaluation of the future demand of the industrial region of Back, and more important, that transport mechanisms are a factor in the power management of the electricity system in general, since there is a great need for funding in the national system, especially in the southwest of the country. The telematic line 1 is part of the build-up of the electrical energy system according to an approved system. The main objective of Theistareming line 1 is to link Theist inactivation to the industrial region of Back, but also to link urbanity to the Swami Bays and up to the northeast corner of the country to strengthen the infrastructure in that area. The purpose of Section 4 is primarily to link the Trinity activation to the national network. The following processes have been avoided and the environmental impact of needed transporters has been evaluated. So here are 11 related reports and editions, that are: Area-wide high-heat areas in the Parliament Countys 2007-52025. The main category of the North Council for 2010-03/2030. The Continental Squadron's main organization, 2010◯2022. The main straggler of Strullsep in 2011 and 20203. Landsnet assessment report 2010. The Landsnet Assessment Report, Reactivations, Theistar dams and Alcoa, 2010 A joint assessment of the environmental impacts of aluminium back at Húsavík, Theist behavioural activations, Part II and high-voltage lines from the Kritas and Theist teams at Húsavík. Thought of the Agency's focus on high-voltage lines (220 kV) from the Crimea and The States at Húsavík. Earthline (132 kV) from Binnarf to Kjarda, 2010 The Organization's view of common food, 2010. The Continental Organization of Thematic Impulse Impairment. Senator Squad, 2012. Assessment report. Silicon Painting Factory at the Back of Húsavík, 2013 Viewed by the Organization for the Silicon Language factory of PCC at the Back of Húsavík, 2013. As listed here, much work has been done for many years to prepare the project, finally making progress on September 18, 2015. As mentioned earlier, the National Protection Agency required the implementation of the local organisations published earlier this year to the Commission of Environment and Resources. During temporary decisions made by the Committee between June and August. was currently being performed at the fixture of the lines stopped and saw a verdict, including Supported by a reference to a new nature protection layer, which went into effect on November 15, 2015, as previously said. This decision, which is so late in the process that witnesses have put the matter in a very serious position. A minimum of 1st is the fact that this case is based on law, and it feels very strongly that the implementation of a project will be improved in the process and that it can contribute to better and more careful management. One of the requirements for land protection is that there will be a more precise possibility of laying a ground line around sensitive areas rather than a ceiling line. A smaller portion agrees that the use of earth cables must be further considered and their use must be increased in sensitive areas in the future. In this case it is not possible because a meeting of the Committee was conducted with representatives of the Organization that it would require reviewing the strategy of the rural organisations as well as a new assessment of environmental impact. So the time will not allow such a view in this case, as is the case with a particular time pressure. A smaller portion emphasizes the need for more emphasis on earth cables over air lines where appropriate and should be further explored for future years' implementation. During the last assembly, the General Assembly agreed on a government resolution policy and there are specific factors to consider when deciding whether to put a line in the ground or in the air, which distinguishes between the low intensity of the network of electrical energy, the national parting system, or the main transport system. This was done by the interpretation of No. 11/144. The Skulling Stumps, the House of Thiingers, and the Northern Parliament accepted all of the challenges to the government on September 20. and the challenge for this committee party is that the government and lawgiver react to this matter so that projects can be carried out. With reference to the above and to all the long and professional work in accordance with existing laws, the 1st smaller things seem impossible to react to such an unexpected and difficult situation by agreeing with the bill. A smaller section supports the adjustment made by the majority of the committee and rights not to be viewed as an example. A respectable president. These final words should be emphasized. A smaller section supports the change and rights that this law should not be considered an example. That's why I'm writing. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u43	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator reviewing committee opinion 1. There are two main questions. First, I'd like to inform the court that a few minutes ago I sent a mail to the Commission and asked for information as to whether the decision was to be expected in the issues facing the activities under this very unusual legislation. Just now, I was getting the answer to the inquiry as follows, with the permission of the president: It's a meeting of the Kriss line 4, Strudel mark, dear No. 46/2016 and the meeting might lead to a decision today, but it's not certain. With a greeting, the secretary of the Committee.• I want to ask you why. A senator, in view of what he sees in committee party 1st, is a special and very unexpected bill. It's not a law that I think any of us think is exemplary. Counts 'em out. A senator not that it would be for the good and for the better of the case, if you may be so distorted, to wait for the decision - making committee's conclusions, especially since this has confirmed that Part 1 of the decision may be on its way right now in the next few minutes? Then I'd like to ask. Secondly, a senator. It made it very clear that the 1st smaller things do not want the legal process to become an example: What do you think? Then a member of the body of elders on that matter on Article 3. which directly includes changes in the status of the issues related to Hlaming and other projects that this bill is not intended to alter at all?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u44	President. I'd like to reiterate that what I went over earlier is nominated. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, and when I answer it. Svavarsdóttir I'm naturally speaking for myself and not for Kristján. I want to make it very clear. Yes, I agree. A senator said that if you did, you could have waited. I myself believe that it would have been more patient with the Commission's decision that I don't talk about if he fights now in the next minute or hours. Then I think it would be appropriate to postpone a discussion on this subject until it is time to do so. I don't think there are many people who want to interrupt legal procedures like this. It's about what it's like. Senator's asking about 3. par.: As I'm saying, I was surprised by the understanding presented this morning, and I hadn't heard of it in my discussion. Now I have not been on the committee, but I had understood that this was a unique case and that these laws should not be used in order to smuggle any other goods there. I'm surprised. I believe that's also what was stressed in Kristján L. Möller's committee party, which I read, why. A member of that congregation makes a special point that he does not consider this to be an example. I would then interpret it to surprise him too, but that's what I now say without any responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u45	President wants less of it. Councilmen should give other causes. Senators, full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u46	President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I realize that in some ways it's a little technical. Hv. A senator has not enjoyed it as the one mentioned here to have applied for ten meetings on the subject of the case on a professional committee that covers all its churches. But it is stated in a memo from the Department of Employment, and I emphasize it, that the main objective of the bill is to cancel any conflict of nature protection laws. The memo notes that the primary objective of the bill is not to explain the complex position north but to explain nature protection laws. It also says that the bill presented here has an effect on tasks other than those linked to job development on Backka. The third chapter of a memo published by the Ministry of Industrial Affairs says: The directive may be considered quick to cover certain factors related to the planned HQ and it is also likely that the directive will affect the implementation of Sandskeiðline 1 due to the entry of the current line on the basis of agreement with Hafnarfjörður farms. I'm asking why. A senator, and don't suppose she'll answer for what. At least I've had that feeling in my discussion. The largest part of the Generals and the highest. Industrial Minister has set out on this expedition to establish highly specific legislation but are now in their trouble to recognize that the legislation is far more extensive and far more important and that it is more and less important because it is forbidden under EEA regulations to have such specific legislation that it is in the interest of one act at the expense of the others who do not have the same legal fee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for specifically saying that I did not enjoy sitting around all these meetings on the job committee. But if it's like it says that the government is in trouble now - it wouldn't be the first time she's gonna get into trouble, but I'm gonna let it go. I understand that the laws that would be passed with this should apply until the end of 2017. You're absolutely right. A senator's opinion that it is highly unlikely - or needs to be careful about the absence of a very specific procedure. But the question is, even if you have the right to do something, you don't have to do it. Because the law should apply to 2017, you might be able to take some more of the continuum transfunctioners in there. Then there is the question of willingness and determination. Do men with some smuggling for those who are willing to take a possible position on this one particular incident? Of course, most people understand that for sense to be involved, there must be electricity between Theistyness and Back. But that's a question of will. I've understood it like hell. A senator said that it was on the request of a northern government to solve the problem that has come up there and especially because of the length of winter and therefore the duration of construction less than anywhere else in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u48	Madam President. I hereby recommend the Committee's Article 2 of the Work Router's Department on a bill to provide permission for Landsnet Corp. to build and drive 220 kV from the Crimea Center to Theist Instinct and to the industrial region of Bakka, in the Northern Parliament. With the bill, the Minister will recommend a compromise with existing legislation in the interest of a single execution. 2 smaller things cannot support such practices and consider them unprofessional, show financial support, and ignore nature's standards. In addition, there are a number of concerns as to whether the bill will pass its constitution and the international debt of Iceland. The bill suggests that there will be a special law for Landsnet to be authorized to provide electrical cables to the backtows of the industry despite the fact that the management process continues to exist in the administration. In this way the administrative body suggests that laws will be turned aside, legal lawsuits will be removed, and legally terminated by a legal court of law. A smaller section points out that the judicial decision is to be expected in the days ahead. There is an important administrative case that has not been able to answer on the committee's discussion. They were unable to be answered by the Ministry, and no expert in the Icelandic government organization has yet appeared to the committee. For example, the concept of the State's tributary is a matter of opinion, as indicated by Article 2. The constitution. There is a second reminder of the right of individuals to obtain a release on their rights and duties for an independent and impartial court according to Article 1. 70 C. Constitutions and, therefore, should not be ignored because the right is ignored by the legislation on certain differences. This was the case with visitors at a meeting of the Committee. Finally, 2nd memory points to 1 mg. 78th par. Constitutions are required to control their own affairs according to legal requirements. This will be the intervention of the very specific procedure at least it should be considered in a grey area with respect to the regulations. In fact, it was stated to the committee that no one, whether the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Presidency, has checked the committee in any legitimate way. A prime minister felt that it was on the council's task to investigate the issues of opinion, since there would have been no time to do so in ways that could easily have been made while the bill was being built. The Senate has not yet fully examined these issues. The lawyer Aagot Óskarsdóttir sent in a detailed review showing very many problems in the case with principles, constitution, and international commitments. The review of the Dutch professor Kees Bastmeijer makes a special comment on the Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights and how it is likely that the matter will be contrary to the commitments made by these agreements. The commission also received the review of Land Protector, which is accompanied by the legal opinion of Sif, the Konráðsdóttir of Conspira. ... aboutit. It points out that the bill, if legally the law, removes the environmental rights of justice in Icelandic law and two international treaties and gives evidence that there may be an obstacle to 2k. The constitution. The Argu Treaty validated here in 2011 provides a basis for access to information, participation in decision-making and access to a righteous environmental trial. 2. smaller items think that with 2.g. The bill is violated against the contracts that end the trial treatment for an independent ruling agent. Those involved are based on laws based on the Ásse Treaty, but with the bill, the court is brought to nothing in the charge of four counts. The Environmental and Transport Committee has because of its approach to this case requested a special assessment of the Environment and Resources Department on whether the bill, the law, the conflicting of the Assesion Convention and the EEA Convention. The government agreement and other aspects of the environmental legislation are in the field of the Ministry, and the bill reports that it has been consulted by the Ministry. Dutch law professor Kees Bastmeijer, who appeared to the committee, felt that the case was against the Hésar Convention. At the same conclusion, Aagot Óskarsdóttir and Sif Koneglsdótttir Konráðsdóttir. In 1st. Section 6. European Convention on Human Rights, as stated by law No. 62/1994, the right to the righteous and the official treatment is given within the appropriate time for a court of independence and dishonour. Commenting on the case of the committee, it was noted that the protection provided by the directive can also apply to the group of individuals when it comes to the alleged offense of individuals within the organization. Kees Bastmeijer pointed to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights that would bring up specifics on the environmental rights where bodies of events exist and on this matter. According to a minister of the council, he felt so farfetched, and it also showed that his views had not been specifically examined in the preparation of the case, either by counseling or by means of the consultations involved. 2. smaller items feel 2.g. The bill includes a burdensome retrospective effect on the environmental organizations to which the bill is legalized and deprived of legal rights for the release of their charges to an independent judge, the right being one of the cornerstones of the legal state. It was also noted that this article can be considered as meeting the basic U.S. review of the redesignment of law. Finally, it would be proper to mention a administrative moderate rule, especially with the definition that the decision is to be expected from a committee in a few days; the bill includes important rights and its compliance with constitution and international agreements has not been fully explored. Konráðsdóttir Consecretsdótt, in her opinion, says: "The need for urgent intervention and authority for the intervention of the administrative rights, in view of a moderate rule order, seems not to have been carried out. Especially is this true of the situation today, since the Landsnet has not been successful in organizing the process. Section 2 considers the landnet to be worthy of waiting for as long as it is true to apply for a license to fix the line. It has to be estimated that the Landsnet could have limited the interference of the process by considering earlier, to obtain the required terms for the implementation of the enterprise's binding agreement with the recipient of electricity when it was implemented in 2014. It can be noted, however, that reports were received by the government and the Landsnet from Geological Protection of March 10, 2015, indicating that the basis for the layering of lines was entirely different from what was at the time of environmental assessment and that a new environmental assessment was needed. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested in nature protection laws, No. 60/2013, a specific directive to have an estimate of the environmental impact of the Agency carried out for enforcing law No. 60/2013 should be subject to the grant of the implementation of older nature protection laws, No. 44/1999. A lower share considers this change in nature protection to be too extensive, but it is not limited to the cases listed here. By getting closer to nature protection laws in the way suggested here, they are not actually fully valid until 2025. It will seem unlikely that it could be the goal of the greater part that has emphasized the specificness of the legislation and that it would have to be especially careful that it does not have exemplary values. It may also be requested that the Environmental and Resource Ministry evaluate the impact of such a wide legal rule on a number of current environmental issues without permission of implementation. In this matter, there are many serious legal issues as well as the case of everyone being turned aside by nature protection criteria for a single project, which is unacceptable. The bill suggests that the legal authority of an environmental organization that is activated at the end of a long career will, in effect, be canceled by a specific law. The Agency's only permission can activate a transmissible authority, to local legislation, and must therefore be concerned whether the legislatator is on this matter setting the precedent that the charges will be ignored in more cases and thereby the rights of the environmental organizations to which the Communicate Treaty measures. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir and a member of the Environment and Transport Committee sat at a meeting of the employment committee with the other members of the Environment and Transport Committees as they accept the opinion presented here. Under the opinion of Section 2, the writer here writes, the background boy. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and what. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir. Thus, in this difficult and perhaps unprecedented case, I would have thought normal that the legislator would not launch such a bill and intervention into a nature protection law over the head and that men should wait for a decision to be presented even today from the Committee of Environment and Resources. I think it's just a shock to me that the lawgiver won't wait for the decision that's coming within even an hour - or is here, as if I could hear here in a speech chair. [[Foreground on, he's here.]] I'm not gonna have any more words on this for now and I'm just gonna call it a night.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u49	A respectable president. It's so modern in this case that in the meantime. In the house - to - house decision of the Committee, the senator spoke to the committee in which the decision of Struggling Stumps was canceled from spring to agree to a work permit for the Landsnet for the Kings Line 4. It is clear, then, that the word has completely subjugated the management of this structure in the majority of the council, and it may not be possible to consider the statements or conclusions of the committee. But it is clear that the matter is in complete turmoil and needs a full review in view of the reports just coming to a house. I think it would be normal, without me discussing it in a special answer, that the president interrupted this meeting, where people would have the opportunity to review the decision and ask themselves, " What are the normal next steps? ' But I'd like to ask why. A senator, since I am here in answer to the speech of a spokesman II of my employment committee as our representative in the bright future. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir is involved: Is this really a complete victory for those who have wanted to respect the current process? We've been waiting for it and wish the lawgiver didn't intervene before the legal process ended.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u50	Madam President. It is good that one of four counts has arrived. There is then the decision was made to eliminate the implementation of the existing licenses regarding Calculus Line 4. I think it's so growing that we can't keep talking about it here and now compared to what's before the meeting, i.e. ... thata decisionis at hand. I believe this conclusion must change the trial that such as the lawgiver and the executive must review the legal structure available for the council and we will discuss here. I think it is very important that we respect the charges committed to the public and to society. This is it. I believe that it will be necessary to reexamine the legislation presented here to intervene in the lawsuits by presenting a bill for a new implementation permit. I suppose the project appreciated it so that it would take the case back to its senses and take a fresh look at it. This and the conclusion, in favour of the defendant, has a striking effect on the whole case that this finding is being decided to withdraw the license.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u51	A respectable president. In conclusion, the decision-making committee of environmental and resource administrations states that the preparation and treatment of the charge of the charged decision has not all been protected by organizational laws and natural protection laws as well as the non-involvement of rural rule in accordance with Article 10. Government law. If these failings are inevitable, they will lead to an invalidation of the charged decision, as has been further explained. The decision is very thorough, but you wonder in a position where the government groups continue to be held in the rights of the public in this matter and of the environmental organization that they will now take on the change of administrative law and bring with one small addition to the bill here for the discussion that includes a change in administrative law, as well as the inconveniences that it may be possible to avoid it. Or they may also apply the arrangement of organizational procedures and make adjustments so that they do not need to be applied either. Of course, this shows that the case presented in this case is a major flaw. If there's no reason now for the greater part to interrupt this meeting to go through what has gone wrong in these matters and to try to make at least one right decision on this matter, I don't know what. I think it has to be that the time point is now that the president will interrupt this meeting in view of the matter of Congress that is no longer applicable, it just doesn't match that reality and will not accept the condition that is in Iceland's administration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u52	Madam President. Of course, it is a bit unusual to get in the air a direct decision-making committee in this matter of serious concern. I can well understand the concern of the locals that this has the effect of building on the Backside, i.e. to get energy supply for approved and delivered by the council, as was done in the past, and that they could continue their work continuously. But all must look at their own concerns, especially the Landsnets. National Protection, Fjorn, and others are known to have made comments on how the lines were being worked. If there had been a positive will at Landsnet to allow them to view the situation earlier and to apply for a work permit earlier, it might have been possible to avoid the position we are in right now. But in the United States government, it is more often than not the same as driving on a wall: I can, I can, I want, and I'm gonna, instead of being therapeutic and respecting the survival of nature conservation organizations and the public who have been able to pass through through with great persistence over the years. It is not as if public rights and community organizations were to have access to charges in the process often caused by controversial cases just fall off the sky automatically. We know that. Therefore, I believe now that the State's authority is not to retract the issue and reexamine it in the light of this conclusion. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u53	President. The events that are taking place today show just how ridiculous it is to bring this bill on the agenda, even though we in the smaller section have called for the president to wait with the case and then move it back to the schedule today, since the evidence is that this week will lead to a conclusion from the decision board. It's kind of incredible. Now, I've been sitting at several meetings on this matter, and there we've had one of our main experts in the matter of environmental rights, he's been repeated to the committee, and then we have so good at having the first or other serious environmental Minister as a member of the Committee who has asked detailed questions and showed that this process severely impairs the rights of the public of the country. In view of the fact that we have not been able to examine a detailed 20 - page decision, why not give members of the council a chance to study this matter? And wouldn't it be best for the administrative part to listen to the members of Congress who have a lot of experience in this series, have stood guard over Iceland's nature, instead of just going with their eyes and ears tied up in the hope that they can finish the matter fast enough to keep the decisions out of the way? [[The president calls.]] They're afraid of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u54	Madam President. I can agree with anything. A senator stood firm in his opposition. There is now evidence that the European Commission and the president of the Generals have made a similar assessment of the situation, as we have claimed, that the case will be postponed and taken off to discuss the outcome, which, of course, is very decisive and puts the case on a completely different course. I respect that at the highest. The Parliament's president is to handle the matter firmly and decide to consider the matter within the council and to consider the procedure on his own. That is what is focused on doing, and it is good to know that there is an immediate response to it rather than going along in a void. All we need to do is see the decision that will be made in the other four accusers. It is not long before he is in a position to wait. This is such a matter that we must respect legal lawsuits. We have a decision. In that case, the execution of the test would not require that it remain bound in the eye and not listen to that conclusion. However, it is good to know that there is a decision now that the matter will be canceled in order to examine it in view of the decision presented by the Commission of Environment and Resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Economic and Business Committee for No. 826, which is the bill for the legislation on the change in currency law and the disposal of capital waste. The committee again discussed the matter after the second. At a Senate Hall and suggest a few additional changes to the bill. It does not in itself make much of a lot of money but is more likely to explain some factors. The suggestion is made on a special Senate document, No. 1744, where we can see it is largely four factors. The aforementioned opinion is also presented in a special Senate document, No. 1743. I'm not gonna read it up here, because it's been there for a few days. On the other hand, I would like to clearly specify what changes are being made. First of all, the first two terms depend solely on making one of the principles more clear, i.e. that a certain reference to the bill for cash will be removed, making it more clear that, under this category, only the assessment will fall in cash when one party is domestic and the other foreign, i.e. is a so - called capital movement between countries. Perhaps the major change, which is presented here, would be 12 pars. The bill and it's set up to make the c- team 12. much clearer than was in the bill, I also refer to it as the bill was in 2nd. The bill had become so in Article 12. The Navy was expected to set up rules for filling up and explaining c-jaw 12. The committee, however, feels that it is very important to consider a law that makes it clear to the reported legalities regarding capital movements and currency exchanges between countries that the law itself is quite clear about the occurrences involved. The late bank had set out rules in this regard, and when viewed by the committee, it felt that the rules of those regulations would simply be passed into the law. So it's done here. Other than that, I refer to the entire committee as it is already known. Under the committee's opinion, they also write what appears to be why. Senator Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the program. The Economic and Business Committee, Willum Steingrímsson Þórsson Guðmundur Thorsson, Guðmundry Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, Linika Anna Savarsdóttir, Anna Margrét Guðjónsdóttir and Óli Björn Kárason. A respectable president. I'd like to end up with that, because it's not common for the bills to make some change between the 2nd and 3rd. In a chamber, although nothing is of course abnormal and does so, it may not be conventional, but in this matter's examination and processing, the change in currency law, it is clear to me, and I hope that it is clear to everyone that the currency law needs to be revised very quickly in view of the ambiguousness of the regulations. Of course, the rules related to the currency and the law have made so much changes over the past few years that it has to be said, as far as it is, a respectable president, that it is not for me to think that it is a very normal practice to enter it. I hope at least that it will be one of the first works of a new council to take this legislation into account, although only in light of clearly, it will, of course, be done with the aim of further release of the oceans. These laws place on a vast scale and can be complex, and it is urgent that all rules are stated in the legislation itself, not by legislation to be reference to regulations established by the Council or by other governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u56	Madam President. I'd like to recommend the Committee to Reunion Committee after 2nd. about bill to legalize public shopping. We received a tip between discussions that we thought were worth handling, it was about 88 C.E. par. The bill that's about sub-creatures. This was a buyer's license to pay unpaid remuneration to subsidies at the expense of a major contractor if he did not pay in payable wages. The committee concluded that it would be better to remove this problem, even though she has an understanding that this may be close to the chain of responsibility that has been discussed, we thought that it would not be fulfilled with this, so we decided that it would be better to correct this article and apply it before entering a law text. Then the committee proposed two other adjustments, one on the other hand correction of cross-references and one on the other, correction of a-line 1st. 66. g. They're all presented here. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Friðriksson, Páll Pálsson, and Ásmundur Daðason Dadur. During the smaller parts, we have had a warning set aside to set the budgets for rural purchases. I also have discussed quite a few things that I don't feel that my community is supposed to fall under the NTSB. Of course, there are advantages and defects, as in all matters, but I have believed that the rural communities should have kept their shopping rules, since they have not received any formal charges against them. So I would have thought it would be better if they didn't fall under it. On the other hand, you want people to have an opportunity to present their affairs and to complain about services or such, but you can do that even if they do not have to go to a federal hearing, and that has, of course, been a process for their communities to do so. But local societies have talked about, especially the big ones, that this may cost a lot of money, that will make the system more complex, that it needs to work harder, and even hire people to get their hands on it. Has it been noted that in other countries, costs have increased excessively, including some of them, to a greater extent. in Denmark, as was the case with the reference height. I have felt that we are starting a little bit, since the neighboring countries have been moving away. The second is when we talk about something that needs to be done on a relatively short notice. And, as we know, the time spent in rural society is often short because of our reputation. If a contract can be stopped or something, then, of course, action may be delayed. But we feel that this is not to be stopped, so it is recommended. Hopefully, this may not be the case, for that is, of course, one reason not to go against it directly by a formal proposal, i.e. Pull this thing back. I'm not going to extend the discussion. We talked it over pretty well with the 2nd. But I still have this warning because I haven't felt that the local rules of the new administrations that went into effect during the last term have worked well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u57	Madam President. As we can see from the records in this case, no more part of the committee was reached for one conclusion in the case, which must now be given a certain point. This is a administrative bill to legalize changes in growth and insurance laws, i.e. The change introduced by significant ceremony at the Harpa following a discussion that the government would soon introduce its actions to eliminate insurance. Those who expected abolition of insurance would be introduced at this Hauppe meeting may have been seriously disappointed, since the bill is neither a bird nor a fish that way. In fact, according to their comments, some comments about how interested people are in decommissioning insurance show that the price - insurance loans had almost been banned. In fact, it's my opinion here that if you are going to disseminate insurance insurance, it's no less necessary to discuss the financial value in this country. So, what's suggested? Yes, the bill suggests that starting on January 1, 2017, no longer allowing consumer loans to be paid longer than 25 years, if that is guaranteed, and by an equal payment system. Even so, it has been stated that such loans will continue to meet specific criteria for age and income borrowing. Thus, it is not a ban on the value of a 40 - year - old remuneration loan. Rather, it is being suggested that such loans have been one of the most common types of mortgage loans in this country. When reading the bill, the stated objective of stopping the risks of long - term trust loans is presented and is referred to as a failure to lend such loans that payments from a head chair are delayed, so property becomes slow and even negative. Also, comments to the bill show that by 2015 prices of even credit loans were taken about 40 years ago. 78% of all new apartment loans. It is thought - provoking why less than 80% of new apartment loans are included in these terms. I'll find out later. Thus, it can be said that by means of this bill, the government intends to step into a loan market behavior. However, it can be assumed that 30◯50% of loans will fall under the rules of the bill due to age, 5◯10% due to income, and 51⁄215% by mortgage. In total, up to 75% of loans are thus expected to fall under the bill's terms of entitlement, and thus they continue to have the authority to accept the prices as long as pay loans at the end of the 25th year. Thus, this 40 - year price - guarantee is limited, but it is not expected, even though there are more extensive restrictions, that it can be expected that 75% of all borrowers can continue to be entitled to such loans. To think about the fact that nearly 80% of loans were on the basis of these terms this year. This is likely to show that those who take the loans do so because they feel that it is important to have some insight into a payment burden, despite the obvious negative on loans. It was therefore wondered at committee meetings, just to be told whether borrowers were generally aware of the benefits and benefits of this loan form. Even then, a purpose for these limits was to make people think primarily about the risks of such loan forms. But then you might ask yourself, " Is it not normal to add information to those who lend such loans to cover the pros and cons of these loans, since I find it hard to believe that 80% of creditors during 2015 are going blindly into taking these loans, so I say. I'd like to mention here that the reviews of the bill were very different, and this is shown in Committee 1. smaller parts. For example, the reference work of the GDR and the Substitute Bank reveals special concerns about low income households. These loans have just been taken from less income households, and this is likely the reason for the extravagance suggested because the load of payment on them is more predictable than from irresponsible loans. The People's Association of Iceland points out that it will continue to be difficult for young people and take small homes, or even impossible, to manage the payments of shorter loans and/or unsecured loans, but the exceptions make it impossible for this group to continue doing these loans, which are said to be so risky in writing with the bill. In other words, the goal of the bill remains. ASI further notes that there is no experiment with these changes to deal with the real problems of high interest and defective housing systems. It is also true that Iceland's Council and the SEC express doubts about the angles presented here. In its review, the Federal Bank points out that the main option of loans to the borrowers and creditors is the multiplies of empirical prowess, expressing doubts about the process of banning a particular loan form; it will at best reduce the options of those who come to borrow. However, it is noted that other loans may appear, e.g. with a so - called interest roof, which, in fact, has the same qualities and prices as money loans, so that their limitations do not solve the problem it is designed to solve. A more affordable route is to set maximum share ratios such as has been done in other countries, but Sweden and Norway have also set rules for minimum urbanisation ratios to ensure housing property. What remains is that the reviews, and I've got a few of them here, and the case of the visitors who came to the F.O.R. will reflect the vague aims of this bill. It is absolutely uncertain whether the proposed pathways will produce some results in the vague goals that should be the basis of the bill. It is not only unclear that the roads produce results, but the goals for the loans are very vague in view of the fact that the stated objectives are to stem certain loan forms, which will remain available for 75% borrowers according to the bill itself. Thus, it is the conclusion of those who write under this opinion that the bill is primarily a way to settle in the obvious differences between the members of the administrations, the independent party and the forwarding party of the insurance policy, but it is totally unknown how the regulations of the bill will play a role. It is absolutely clear that the non-employable promise of the Progress Party for the last election for decommissioning insurance will not be fulfilled with this case. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, an emissary officer of the Economic and Business Committee, describes himself to this opinion. Under it, write the one that stands here. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson. There's no other way, Madam President, but it's a case that's unclear where to go, which way to go, which success to achieve, which goal it should meet. Rarely have I seen such clear examples of some sort of compromise between different categories almost in order to put X in some document on paper, some of the promises that had been made in cooperation. It's kind of strange, Mr. President, that we're being used by the Generals, which is in short supply right now in less than three weeks for an election, to be dealing with this kind of case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u58	President. I hereby recommend the Committee's Section 2 of the Economic and Business Committee on bill to correct the change in growth and insurance law, No. 38/2001, with subsequent changes i.e. ... aboutthepreservation of consumer loans. The case was presented and tore in the committee. It's given along with the other issue, the bill to support the purchase of the first apartment, the case of No. 818. Both elements seem to be based on the opinion of a committee of experts. There's a lot of stuff in that committee party that doesn't hold up. It contains, for example, no discussion of two basic sources of financial science, i.e. a requirement of fruit and present respect. A comparison of payment procedures in the opinion of this so - called expert committee is absolutely meaningless and has nothing to do with it. The objective of the bill seems to be to prevent normal people from borrowing by their choice and to take seriously the consumer contract as loaners and creditors. The bill has a long, incomprehensible discussion about something that has been called the ◯Iandland loan, apparently in a form of shame and contempt. That alone is enough to direct the case to the government. In fact, credit time regulations do not have business in law on growth and insurance. Privacy is a law that includes freedom of agreement and is not related to growth requirements that depend on the multiplicity and sharing rules. This is not shown in a paper with the bill, but in the review of a reviewer to whom credit periods should be limited, which include the distribution of interest prices in interest. No lenders, i.e. Financial and pension funds, or the representative of the borrowers, but on behalf of them representatives of the Allied Union of Iceland, were familiar with any problem with loan time loans or life loans. The only problem that was discussed was mortgage loans and weather conditions. Rather, it has been reported that borrowers have had difficulty paying extra loans because of the rules of consumer loans, i.e. advance on the loans. At the same time, it was observed that most long mortgage loans paid much less than a loan time in spite of problems with subsidies. It will come, for example. Whether or not to trade. The age-separated limits of loan time presented in the bill have no perplexing reasons and therefore violates all views of national equality, and difficult to see how the regulations of the bill fit within 65. The constitution. The absurdity of the matter will be the most obvious in the transitional phase 3 less part of the Economic and Business Committee, where people over 75 will not be allowed to take a so-called high-cost consumer loan to the U.S.A. It is important to note that the age-related algorithm, suggested by a majority of the Committee members and by a change form, is a system of algorithms that I call ◯algri·thmahʹ, which is the character of the committee, will in the future be referred to as 'Frosièm.' The calculator will be called the calculator, where the calculator calculates the borrowed time of ▪ Iceland's loans. It was not to be expected that those on machines would have the control of the composite and withdrawal rather than the understanding of the multiplicity and sharing of the members of the Committee aluminium. I now understand that there was no more to this matter, so there may be something heated, but there is another matter. It is also worth reminding that interest laws and insurance should be discussed on terms relating to the calculation of interest and variation in loan terms. Other aspects of borrowing, credit evaluation, and authority do not belong in this legislation. It has advanced in terms of the natural freedom of agreement that is to exist in a liberal democracies society. Another smaller section feels that this case does not address any problem but may create a host of new problems. Cutting down loan time from 40 years to 25 years will result in a rate of about 25 to 30% higher on the so - called price - guaranteed loans. Since the bill solves no problems but creates many other things, the 2. smaller things in order to be referred to by the government. It is to add beyond what is stated in this committee that there are many paradoxs in the opinion of a so - called expert committee that I can't help but call the so - called experts, because it shows so much confusion that there is nothing to build. Otherwise, I'm going to tell and refer to the stories of those who came up that it seems completely unclear which goal this bill is to achieve or which problem to address. I say again, I propose that this case be referred to the government. Another lower part of the Economic and Business Committee on this matter is the one that stands here, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u59	A respectable president. I measure the opinions and changes made from the 3rd decrease in the financial and business institutions of the bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws, but the change is about limitation of the price-separation of equal payment loans over the age of 25. Consider, along with a change in the motion, and see how you feel about it. 1709 and I will now tore its contents in very short terms. The committee received 13 talks on the matter and arranged for her to meet with a member of the Presidency Department, the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the National Association for Economic Affairs, the Department of Economic Affairs, the National Bank, the National Department of Pension, the National Department of Pension, the National Association for Economic Affairs, the Bank of Economics, and the Bank of State. The committee also had a telephone meeting with Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson, an economist. The bill suggests that the cost of paying more than 25 - year - old consumer loans is forbidden and paid equally. This is in harmony with the suggestions made by a team of experts on decommissioning insurance on consumer loans, but one of the groups'proposals was to ban securities of loans for over 25 years. Exceptions are made from the principle given to younger borrowers, earners of loans, and in the case of bets of less than 50%. According to the bill, during the first two decades of surrogacy as a credit loan, the head chair continues to rise, as part of the inflation factor is rolled over to the head chair. So selfishness is very slow, and when it comes to the end of the credit period, the burden of payment becomes heavy. Substituting the value of equal credit loans in the community helps to further the function of the UN's direction interest, thus reducing the success of all creditors. In view of some suggestions, the third minority of the Committee makes changes that will now be attributed to them. Limitation of the bill on the length of prices of equal credit loans is only for loans, but not for overtaking them, such as the purchase of property by borrowing money. It was noted that there could be a possible problem with real estate. In terms of my 3rd share, the argument against the granting of securities loans is equally applicable to the takeover of loans. Thus, a smaller 3rd section suggests that the limitations of the hosts' loans are also applicable to their takeovers. The bill includes consumer loans and wishes that the term consumer loans will be clarified. A smaller 3rd part suggests that instead of the word consumer loans, the term "success " will be compared to the term" loan " with a mortgage in an apartment home, and more clearly. In the bill, borrowers are divided into age groups, each of which last five years. For each space, a maximum loan time is given. Such step distinctions were noted to be unfortunate, as it made loans of reimbursement difficult when borrowing went from age to age. This could, for example, be possible. A borrower who would have borrowed 40 years when he was 34 years old, not reimbursed that year, except by loan to a much shorter time and with more payment. To reduce this effect, three ages are replaced by formulas, which yield continuous results. A third smaller portion also feels that it is desirable to believe that the loan time of the remuneration of equal credit loans cannot be longer than 40 years, and it suggests a change in the nature of the loans. The bill provides an exception from the limitations if the mortgage rate does not exceed 50% on the loan date. Because of the high rates of securities loans in general during the first few years and if real estate does not increase, the rate of mortgages may increase, although borrowing does not result in further loans. Therefore, a 50% mortgage rate per loan day may make it difficult to reimburse such loan later and thus become competitive. To manage this, a 3rd lower share suggests that the share may be higher if there is reimbursement on the old loan and the mortgage rate does not increase from the previous one. A third of my items suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made on the screen. 1709. The following what? Councilmen are listed as September 22, 2016: Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and executive, Brudur the Brynjar of Níelsson, in advance, Linika Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir, and Willum Þór Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u60	A respectable president. As previously noted in this discussion, there is a measure of advantage that there is no greater part in this great matter, a bill of change in terms of growth and insurance. The bill appears to be suggested to fulfill the Agency's campaign plans for the Agency's team to be canceled during the season of election. A respectable president. Price insurance isn't the problem in this country. Inflation is the problem. Sad to say, there are times when inflation occurs, and it is the history of the economy in this country that it has been highly variable, primarily because of its low currency, but as noted, it is the smallest currency in the world, and so far as few of the changing economy has been here. Happily, it is now looking to a better start. We've got a third foundation here. We've had a fishing road, an aluminium company and a major industry, and now we've got the tourism industry, and what's more, a respectable president, what's called the second one in the cake when there's been a change to the main trade, the sector, or that piece. There are innovation companies, creative articles and other such. The part is also growing on the land, and it is very enjoyable and points to the fact that we may not be so much affected by the economy in this country as we have recently seen, although it is naturally clear, a respected president, that while we have this small currency, that little currency, the smallest currency in the world, there is always a greater risk of movement in the economy and thus inflation. We've had insurance on loans to eliminate the uncertainty resulting from severe inflation so that the secret to canceling insurance in Iceland, a respectable president, is to prevent inflation, that's the secret. The bill suggests that 40 years of credit loans are banned, i.e. Everyone but somebody. These are probably about 70% of the borrowers, and they have it in common, a respectable president, one who is supposed to be forbidden to take a 40 - year loan, to be older than 35 years old. They need to be understood, and they can't be paid even for 40 years. I think it is noteworthy that this bill, a respectable president, is stressed that one of the problems of the 40 - year loans is that people don't know how it works, how it works, and so it is necessary to inform people when they borrow how the loans work, how they show payment, and so forth. Admittedly, this is vital. I also remember that already the highest. For example, a financial minister gave special attention to the need for borrowers to be informed as to how the loans work. A respectable president. At the same time as it's emphasized, the bill and paper are trying to dust the eyes of people I feel so strongly opposed to what is said, that there is a need for enlightenment, and people need to know what they're doing. There is a great deal of reference to a panel or a group of specialists on decommissioning insurance insurance and it says that these suggestions are based on what was presented in that report. However, it is quite clear in a letter to the CHMP that this group was not to discuss whether it would be wise to cancel insurance. However, he was to say: " If we are going to do so, how can we do it? ' He was not to judge anything about his reason. That is why I find it odd to use the report that some reason that this bill has been delivered. On the one hand, I also feel completely confused, and I don't follow that in comments on the bill, prices of long - term credit loans are compared to loans that do not include payments on a head chair. There are so - called unly loans and loans with a negative head - water supply, which in English is called an unnigorative amortization. Well, credit loans, amateur loans, in the long run, have nothing in common with this loan, a respectable president. They have nothing in common with them. That's why it's just weird and just like falling to dust people's eyes to compare it together. It is then claimed, and it is always being suggested that 40 years of credit loans are so bad and as it turned out. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's name is Iceland's loan. But 40-year-old credit loans are no worse in Iceland than in foreign countries where there is no inflation. Possession of a house or something funded by a 40-year credit loan will be no sooner than in a foreign country. What's special about Icelandic loans, that's special in this country, is first of all the insurance policy. It's because it destroys uncertainty, insurance wastes uncertainty. However, it is high interest rates in Iceland. There's gonna be more money here than anywhere else until we can have more coin. While we have this little coin, the smallest currency in the world, it simply becomes that interest here will be higher than anywhere else. That's what's strange about 40 years of credit money in this country, otherwise they're like anywhere else. The problem here on land isn't a 40-year credit loan. The problem is a lot of interest. The problem is a small currency. The smallest currency in the world. A respectable president. I'm not going to read the detailed committee opinion I'm offering, but it's here. There I quote a publication published at the Federal Bank, and I believe it is correct that Iceland's Secret Bank, Volume 6 of December 2013, is a publication. It shows that in the long run, interest rates are lower than credit - free rates, total interest. Then there are some examples of the fact that insurance and insurance insurance loans largely eliminate uncertainty about the future. Then, in the bill, there are these outstanding regulations that those 35 years of age must not borrow 40 years of age. I think it's a bit affordable, more dignified President, that it's a financial minister, an independent, head of the Independence Party, who thinks the need to know so much that people who are 35 years old need to be careful of themselves and not borrow too long. Clearly, then, people's life span has nothing to do with it. It must be a personal decision whether he or she would like to have paid off her loan before he was 65 years old, 67 years old, 75 years old. That must be a personal decision. I think it's a very strange, respectable President, that the head of the Independence Party should provide a bill that should know for people and say, "You should be careful now, my dear, not to owe anything when you're 67 or 70 years old. This is totally incomprehensible to me, a respectable president, because, of course, it's the bet that matters rather than the life span of people. If I am, for example. 67 years old - I'm not 67 years old, a respectable president - and I wanted to borrow now to be 20 years old or something like that, why can't I do that? Will the government forbid me to take a loan on my own property and order me to leave the property unsecured for the heir to solve the problem when I'm under a green swarm? A respectable president. What kind of predestination is involved in this bill? I'm totally surprised. I'll tell you right now. I'm not gonna extend this, Mr. Honorable President. But I am stressing that there is no evidence to forbid a 40 - year credit loan. That's why I'm going to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u61	A respectable president. I want to come up here to thank you for the most informative history and interesting perspective that came out there. I'd like to correct this concern about older people who couldn't mortgage or take loans on their homes. It will still be able to do so before they are 40 years old, but perhaps to 25 years old, and in various forms but as a guarantee of equal payment. Older ones can take a variety of loans if they want to go along that way. A senator spoke about and might be interesting. I can totally agree that it can be wise for older people who want to leave their apartment in debt. It may be wise to do something about it. If the bet is less than 50%, it can be borrowed to 50 years of age. I just want to point out that there are still options. I wanted to point this out, but I wanted to ask you why. A senator about something else because we agree that there's interest too much here, absolutely agree on that. Of course, there is one reason why there is a small economy, unstable economy, and such systems are essentially more swinging than larger economy. A smaller currency may also be in its nature with higher interest. Yet, in recent years, our experience has been very stable, more stable than the euro and the dollar to each other and to a pound. Before the committee, Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson sent a very interesting essay or comment on this in which he reasoned, which I found to be quite convincing and would like to ask why. A member of Parliament whether she has read this review, and he is likely to conclude that while low insurance is not harmful, it can be harmful when it is very widespread. It can lead to a 152% higher management rate. Therefore, it is important to reduce the spread of insurance so that operating growth can be reduced to everyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u62	A respectable president. I think it's a bit different, but it's not money that older people can borrow 25 years of age. Yes, but the prescientism is a rule against taking a 40 - year loan because it may well be that people want to borrow 40 years, that's the least money they pay, and that's what people might want to do. Why on earth does the Lawgiver intend to ban it? It must be so because the bank or the borrower believes that people are too old to take this loan, which I can't make a difference because it's the property that's under it, that's the pledge that counts, not the age of people. In the first few years and so on, older ones may also want to make small payments. It's forethought of the worst kind. With regard to the report or report from Ólafur Margeirsson, yes, I read it. Well, I'm not going to deny, that if the insurance is very widespread, the steering rate will be 192% higher, and it will be less effective. However, the important thing, a respectable president, is the currency, the small currency. As long as we have the smallest currency in the world, we will always have bigger interest than the countries around us. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u63	A respectable president. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that small economics have higher interest because they are more unstable, particularly open, economys that deal with large fluctuations and the nature of the case, the currency is small here. I think there's a lot of evidence to suggest that, even if we take up other coins, there'd still be a risk payment here that would follow the economy because of its small size and variability and how exposed we are to various fluctuations. So it is not just to the currency to blame but to the general fact that we are a smallly altered economy and very open. All I wanted to do is make sure that it's not for old people to take loans, under 50% of mortgages can be borrowed regardless of age. You may have read the requirements incorrectly, it is enough to meet one condition, so if the bet is less than 50%, you can take a 40 - year loan, an even loan. Some would feel that spending half of their property in this way would be enough. This is just to correct a misunderstanding in case it has been made to those who would listen to the talk, so it is not quite possible that such thinking could be maintained. I wanted to point this out. I'd also like to point out that it's not just the currency, it's the economy itself and its underdog. Until we are much bigger, the growth is affected. Even the British economy, the U.S. economy, the whole European region is going through swings bigger than the poles we've had, and that's why interest should be lower here than there, but growth is lower than here because there's no economy. I think it might be unfortunate for us to have so low interest that they were almost negative at the same time as we're in a bullshit explosion. I want to ask you why. A senator whether it would be unfortunate to import the money policy of other nations at the worst time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u64	A respectable president. I just think it's unnatural that the lawgiver is making some rules about whether people can borrow or not. It's just that way. People are responsible for themselves, and they must be able to borrow what they want. I don't believe that lawgiver should know about people on that subject. It's so simple. I'll never agree with what. A senator's opinion that these conditions on the bill are good. It may well be that people can live with them, I'm just talking about the prince's penis. I reasoned in my introduction earlier that it is not only the small economy and the currency that have made it here that the economy has been in the direction it has been but also the modestness of the workplace. Happily, it is changing. It's changing. This is not to say that we have to adjust all economic governments to what is going on in the fishing field, as it was for many, many years. Happily, it has become so that the fishing industry is really beneath itself and is a foundation here. In the past, the economy had to move more along the fishing road. It's a natural transformation, a respectable president. Then we have the tourism, and then we have creative articles and innovations and all kinds of things. It is all looking for a better way to see that the economy in the future will be more likely to be stable than it has been so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u65	A respectable president. I said goodbye for what I heard. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson because this is where he went further in forethought than I've heard him speak at a meeting of economic and business committees in which he intends to interfere with the lives of ordinary citizens in this country. You see, it is quite simply a matter of borrowing as one of the fundamental factors in a normal life, that people can borrow, and anyone who thinks that he can decide what kind of loans to take is certainly not a man. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson here has revealed in his counterargument that he certainly knows nothing about what he's talking about if he thinks he can decide for normal people what kind of loan he can borrow. Here are some age - related rules based on insurance loans or loans that take into account measured inflation, but this is not to be done because of lack of ability. A senator doesn't like it. What bullying, freckles, and rudeness is this in other people's personal affairs and the trades of ordinary people with credit institutions? There's gonna be a second. A senator is just not exactly the type of loan man can choose. Hv. Senator, I'm quoting your counter these days. I hope so. A senator will at least spend the last ten minutes. Age-related debts in loans. I've never, never in a long story I can remember, and I've examined the story quite back in time - I've looked at it back to the turn of 1900 since the law of No. One year in 1900, the U.S. National Bank Act was adopted, a law on the establishment of gambling at the National Bank of Iceland, which says something about starting a mortgage to house loans with modest interest, which was certainly a noble goal. No one can argue with me that I have at one time talked about high interest, but I have often spoken of it as a reasonable amount of loans. This long story that I've been looking into, throughout the 20th century and up until this time, I've never been borrowed by age. What humans have been looking into in the natural trade is a loan paid. Can the person pay? If he can't pay for it, could the mortgage be sufficient to repay the loan? That's exactly what I think you should look at here, that's what counts. Second, the pledge, which is a second part, may need to be considered. But it's just a deal between loan and loan, if negotiations succeed. Congress officials have not been interfering with this, and they have come to realize that there are other loans to take. I've just never heard any more bullshit. This is more confusing than has been seen in this council hall, and I have heard much and especially when it comes to the attention of those in attendance. Then there is a long talk about some meditation on how to manage. The Sylvester Bank's fruits deal with what may be called the shorter end of growth; they deal with short - term growth. They can never reach the long end, because I don't think any loans are as surmounting to economy as well as even credit loans with real estate equal to the entire loan. As a result, the loans with changing interest, which may be high and the weight of payment are even more variable, can be repetitive and have a profound impact on the economy. I believe that whole bill doesn't hold a mind, and as I said in my committee, I just don't see what it's supposed to do. The important thing is that a borrower and a lender can negotiate with each other. The growth and insurance laws should address the growth issues, such as the first interest date, when to make a debt of interest, or possibly to the variation of loan, and if it takes any variable sizes, what should be considered, for example, if loans are borrowed. The success security of the success logout should be determined by the variability, etc. We've got a lot of people out here, and they're way more than they used to be. In my review of the last century, I remember that in 1960 the candidates of that time passed bills to legalize the growth of mortgage loans and legalize interest on loans. [[Up front.]] The problem is that some senators have never understood their role. There were bank banks, and then members of Congress were in charge because they wanted to interfere with the banks. Senators who have been talking about independence from money banks have never wanted to let go of the Federal Bank, they have never wanted to let go of interest. It is simply so simply that interest is determined by what people want to save and what they want to borrow, where people meet. There may not be much competition here, but there's just a whole other thing, and it has nothing to do with growth laws and insurance. You have to be more competitive at a loan market, but you have to decide here that you can take other loans - I have never known more excess in socializing with other people. If I was to decide what the other person and this one were to be taken care of. Now I've had the job of being a bank manager and doing credit work. I tried to make sure that one thing in my career; that the bank was paid back, and I tried to see who the borrower was. It's still in my head, and I'm never going to back away from the fact that if I'm going to decide whether the person would buy a loan car or a sofa, it just had nothing to do with me, just nothing exactly. Such a prescientism - if a person wants to speed up his happiness by taking a loan, that's all right. However, members of Congress are about to decide - no. And with the prescientism that appeared here in answer to what happened. A senator - I think the only gratification that's ever happened except for a few things -- Yes, there's a lot more to learn about. paritaprevir Well, Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, and I thank her committee's opinion as well as the name Katrín's Jakobsdóttir. But there is one thing left to do. This matter must be referred to the government. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u66	A respectable president. I see myself being compelled to point my head. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason says it's not who's here to put out this bill. I'm not suggesting there's some age-related rule or rating, but it's Bjarni Benediktsson's son, the highest. Secretary of finance, who I believe is in the same category as the other. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason. Of course, it's the government that puts this matter up, not the senator here. However, the changes we make on the bill are all for the better, even the formula that we do. A senator prefers to call Frosti or ice picks, or something like that, but I think it's nice to know what level of development it is. A senator is on the council hearing to discuss serious matters. And turning out of everything in the bill, claiming that older people are being forbidden to borrow or mortgage their houses in any way. I ask him to read the bill and read the adjustments and then to form an opinion on the subject. Do not use the time in a council hall to mislead those who listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u67	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a panel of members and a change form from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill for support to buy at the first apartment. In 1714 it is considered that I will be traced to the subject in brief, but the proposed changes are found in the 1715 Parliament. The committee received 21 talks, and she was contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the National Department of Pensions, the National Association of Employment Affairs, the Allied Union of Iceland, the Alliance of Staff and Towns, the Iceland Business Council, the European Union of Iceland, the SEC, and the Óskarsson. I thank the managers and the guests for their contribution to the case. The objective of the bill is to promote support to the buyers of the first apartment as well as to encourage the taking of unsecured loans in line with the results of a specialist committee on first step towards decommissionment insurance. It says that the bill includes individuals who have not been owners of an apartment building and their authority to the tax-free assessment of special savings to buy at their first apartment. The bill also suggests an extension of the current EU Member State's provision of special savings to the head seat for two more years or until June 30, 2019. The bill under discussion has many similar laws. 40/2014, the special property savings and his provision for the payment of the mortgage and housing supplies, however except here, the maximum levels are applied to an individual in contrast with those of the current system. Commenting on the bill, it says that in general the scope of the resource may reach 4,300◯15,000 people who could save in a special property every year, 1.36.5.2 billion dollars. A total of 1,3952 billion. over a period of ten years. Finally, it is important to note that the collection of the bill will affect the growth of the state and the reduction of rural communities, especially in the long term. Notes at the bill show that the effects on our communities first appear in lower outlets than on the contrary, on the other hand, the indirect effects of an increase in real estate taxes due to increasing real estate activity. On the other hand, the impact on Kingdom funds is more complex, both to decrease and to increase. Increased savings in this form reduces government income taxes to some extent, both individuals and lawyers, but there is a slight increase in insurance costs and making taxes due to more activity. Following the tip and in consultation with the Ministry, the more part leads to some changes that I will now make in short terms. Two. The bill is behind the fact that the Court should have at least one A 50% share in the building to be able to use the bill's resources. It was noted that many partners do not have housing in other proportions, e.g. 60/40, which means that one member could not use the bill's resources. To handle this, the minimum share of the share of the rights is suggested to be 30% instead of 50%. Based on the comments, it is also suggested that 5 mg. 2.g. ... wouldnot be able to get away, but those who had become involved in an apartment with their inheritance could use the bill's resources. A review showed that the provision of special property savings on the payments and the head obligatory loan, in the proportions changing over the period, was complex in practice for lenders, and less simple, it would be that the proportion would remain unchanged throughout the period. The September 15th financial and economic memo suggests how to simplify the project for loan agencies. Brings the more part to them. The majority of the segments are entitled to the term 'Counsel' in Article 3. This refers to the subsidies of both the capital and the growth. The result of Persian protection's indications suggests that a greater proportion of the words will be added to the renderings of Article 5. to discuss the provision of information for the head of state tax. The Committee stated that in previous measures related to the payment of additional pensions, it was specifically stated by law that debtors were forbidden to insist on requiring a debt of special interest on the basis of the law, and it was suggested that comparable regulations be added to the existing bill. Therefore, in line with all double measures, the majority of the item contributes to the 6th paragraph. the law's law forbids debtors asking creditors to reserve special savings under the law. It also pointed out that it was appropriate to make a small change in Article 1. Section 8. and add the words of ◯and/or (or) followed by the words of a pension fund to make it clear that the person who had bought the first apartment during the earlier period and took advantage of either provision for temporary XVI or XVII, or both, would fall under the law. The majority agree with these views and suggest a change in the design of the material. The Ministry of Economics and Economics suggests two adjustments on the 9th. The bill on which the most part agrees and suggests the change to the same level. A respectable president. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made to the Council Report 1715. Under the view of this publication of September 27, 2016: Frosti Sigurjónsson, president and executive, Brudur Níelsson, Linik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Sigmi Andersen, and Willum Þór Þórsson. I also recommend a move on the same subject. A study conducted here in the Committee showed that it would be necessary to make one more adjustment, not altering the nature of the matter, but the need for adjustment. The motion I recommend is at Council Report 1760, and it has to do with the same matter, 818. I'm just gonna read it here. It's like this: ◯ Instead of the words, a court has at least 50% share of property in the facility to be placed in the 2nd case. 3 mg Section 8. come: talk about the right to take up an apartment building either alone or in company with another person and that it has at least 30% share in the housing. As an explanation of this, hopefully most people realize that this is a process of moving in line with the change made, and the majority suggest that not half of the money is required but, rather, it may be enough to have 30% to meet the criteria. That's it, a respectable president. I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u68	Mr. President. I'm here recommending a member of Committee 1 of the Economic and Business Committee, and I'm going to review it in a few words. At the last meeting of the current government in Hörpu, there were published measures designed to specifically support the possibility of young people buying their own housing and, on the other hand, to reduce the importance of insurance. We discussed it earlier and reviewed the vague goals and vague ways that appeared on that bill. By the examination and review of these bills, which were presented at considerable repairs as usual, it has been found to be sufficient to meet the stated target. Here we will discuss a bill on support to buy at the first apartment. Accordingly, those who have not previously had real estate must use their special savings for up to ten years in order to gain an apartment building. The source includes both the payer's personal contribution, up to 4% of the salary, and the payer's contribution, 2% of the pay, totaling up to a maximum of 500 you. K. per 12 months. The recommendation includes the pay of the special cash paid over a period of ten years, which can start in the first place from the execution of the Law on July 1, 2017. I'd like to mention it here, although it was not done on the committee that I thought it was normal, asking for a review between the 2nd and 3rd. Whether or not it is normal to aim for almanac wounds rather than for my year. I wish that the committee will consider the matter between discussions in view of tax returns. I can see why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is celebrating a very new message from what. A senator standing here. The reviews of the bill have raised considerable doubts about its purpose in providing adequate support for young people at their first apartment. There is no need, however, for young people to be especially examined when it comes to housing, as well as when it comes to young people in general. I think it's important that we be aware that this report was submitted at the latest. Secretary of finance who responds to a report per question. Councilmen of the United States of America, issue of No. 613, where they wanted so - called generation accounts. Many interesting things are contained in this report. For one thing, the general trend in Iceland and neighboring countries is that young people have fallen behind in recent decades. In this country, the largest group's income has fallen, or about 24%, but the difference is reversed by the time they reach a total of 3,35,639 years of age. Comparing Icelandic data between 1990 and 2014, it is also seen that the income of the younger groups has fallen proportionately compared to the average in the last quarter of the century, while older ones have increased their income. The data indicate a decrease in age groups between 1990 and 2014 up to 35◯39 years of age, but an increase thereafter. The highest income is reaching people of this age, but it is not the same age as it was in 1990. The development of commercially available instruments of age groups over the period of 1990-2014 shows that by 1997 the processes move almost exactly in the same rhythm. Thereafter, there will be developments in which the older groups make significant progress over the younger ones, making the gap more and more difficult until the financial crisis. Thereafter, groups have declined significantly, yet the oldest groups continue to hold the lead. A report by the secretary of finance on generation accounts shows that there is a strong connection between the costs of income and shelter prices. If individual groups fall back into buying power, this can lead to problems with housing. Data from 2004 show that there is a reduced share of its own housing in the youngest age groups. Real prices have doubled the real value since 1990, but real interest rates have decreased by half in the same period. Thus, in view of the financial burden of new loans, there is an increase in real estate prices and a decrease in real - life growth. When this trend is associated with the buying power of the youngest groups, it is seen that the load of typical loans has not changed much between 1990 and 2014. The fact that real - estate prices have increased substantially beyond the provision of these age groups suggests that there is currently no payment burden that lends the main problem for young people rather than the ability to save money that is more difficult to overcome. The question is, will it be carried out by an action plan on a new housing system, as suggested here or by looking forward to improving the benefit of young people who have been withdrawn, as discussed in the review of the Commission later in this committee. The commission will discuss specifically that the bill, perhaps the biggest criticism, is a reliable discriminatory device. There is nothing unnatural about looking at ways to support young people to collect money from their first estate when we consider the situation as shown in these generation accounts. But as the reviews of the government's proposal show unmistakably, their support will be very divided between different groups, if the bill becomes a law. For example, the People's review states: It is ASI's estimate that the tax-free use of special savings to buy a first apartment is of prime value to those with their own money and that they have the means to pass payoffs at financial institutions. For this group, the added payments from special savings will certainly advance property production and reduce long - term interest costs. The operation, however, is of little value to those who are most in need of housing. An Annex is included with reference to an operation as it is analysed from different income groups. The examples mentioned in the Annex are based on the provision of 6% of the salary per month, i.e. 4% of the sector's contributions and 2% of the sector's contributions, and it shows that the ten - year period covered by the resource will not be sufficient for households with income less than 600 levels. K. in a month, to raise up your own money for payment on property. If you have your home, e.g. Seven hundred you've got. K. in a combined monthly budget, it takes about eight years to collect for 20% payment in a facility of 20 billion. K. If 28 million is to be collected for payment. K. An apartment will take 11 years. It is clear to everyone that property at this price is a rare white raven in the capital area. This, however, could be the case with a greater number of young people. According to Economics figures, the median arrangement is adopted, i.e. Pay attention to taxes, young people, aged 253/4, which is the group we are expected to direct on, 274,800 k. per month. The median disposition of the next age group, 35◯44 years, is 306 you. K. So it seems that the government's resources are mainly useful to the richer groups of young people. Of course, when it was announced that the average income was always referred to in the community, it was of particular interest. It was not even quoted from the mediocrity of young people. Rather, it was spoken of the mediocrity in the community as some special guide in how these measures were organized. However, it is only a misinformed method of introducing this presentation. I would also like to point out that, at the same time, it is clear that there is a lack of considerable funds so that the building materials that became legal in us can serve the purpose for them. The People's review points out that it was only right to set sufficient taxes in housing and to build up in the new general tenet system, allowing young people to have a realistic opportunity to have safe housing for affordable resources while building up needed savings for their own housing. The 400 general apartments a year that governments plan to support building on, according to financial plans for the next five years, will not be effective in this regard. ASI assessment requires an increase in the number of general apartments by at least 1,000 a year for the next few years. The 400 won't make it. A similar viewpoint is found in ASI comments on the subject. The Union of Staff State and Towns, also known as BSRB, points out that the amount of money that an individual or partners can collect is too low to be able to stand below 20% payment of any apartment relative to existing real estate prices. However, five years from now, in view of the trend in the rise in real estate prices and projections on comparable annual increases. When I note that this is in the branch office - the current government is looked at as to housing support, it seems obvious that the government has made a conscious and political decision to direct public funds to the interests of society rather than to support those who obviously need support. For example, the review of BSRB points out that 2011 growth improvements were less than 19 billion. However, under the 2016 budget, it was estimated at 6.2 billion dollars. For 2016. As a result, growth rates have dropped by 70% in five years. Prosperation is tailored to the general public's needs, where income earns most, but the benefits are reduced by higher income and possessions. On the other hand, tax discounting has to do with the more money - raisers who receive more support than earners. This trend strongly contradicts the BSBA. In a similar way, considering the obvious injustice of public violence in this way of earning more money and using a common taxpayer country, a resident in a North country has a similar strategy. A shopkeeper suggests that such support will be equal between groups and on a certain dollar number. Furthermore, a camper makes comments on building a secure home within a partner and/or a auto-reliance company that has the rights to pay the full amount of equality of an apartment's unique social security number. The difference from income is also a subject in the review of an economistic setting, which makes note that there are no gender data available to the core bill and that there are a lot of academic and professional selections in this country and that there are many more jobs where there are relatively low wages. Then there is the sexual difference between the facts and the fact that there are far more women than men do in part - time work. From the facts listed here, reflecting the systematic inequities of the sex when it comes to paying, it can be concluded that taxes and possible ownership will be used in men rather than in women. But it's not just from this direction that criticism comes to this bill. She's coming out of other directions. For example, the Business Council points out that the bill does not attack the problem that is inexorable for younger generations. This, of course, is confirmed in the report I quoted earlier. Rather than adding yet another support system in housing, as mentioned in the topic review, it would be to provide a plan for such activities. I would also like to point out that the European Union of rural society points out that if the bill becomes the law, it will result in a substantial increase in the cost to the rural population, or 7.2 billion dollars. in the ten years that the options are to be available. When it is written, and when it is said, it should be noted that rural society has not yet been improved by existing measures for the provision of goods in its own stocks, despite agreements. That bill still lies in the council as I understand it. Here is also the review of Allianz, but their customers will not be able to take advantage of this strategy. According to their records, for the committees 22,000 Icelanders monthly add-on fees to allianz's Pension Insurance, that's 25◯30% of the Icelanders as an additional monthly budget per capita and Verdicta surveys. Which, of course, raises questions. It is morning light in my opinion that the government has done a mighty job rather than foresee the bill for support to buy at the first apartment. It is not only that there is a systematic discrimination presented here that I object on political grounds but also there are various technical defects on the bill, unsolved cases on the relations between the state and the community, and the discrimination of the members who are holding on to the additional pensions. This fluctuary could, of course, be forgiven if the government's obvious policy was not to use taxpayers as mutual funds to distinguish different income groups so that they gain a higher tax rate and thus a higher percentage of government funds in housing. It's just a complete change of direction, Mr. President, from the long term housing support system, which has been reasonably at peace with you, i.e. growth improvements, which have been taken into account by income and property positions that have now been cut down by 70% in five years, but are put in the other way to measures that directly increase discrimination and inequities in society. The fact is, based on the calculations considered here, it is highly unlikely that this resource will be useful to a large proportion of young people if based on the development of real estate prices and the median provision of the two youngest age groups. First and foremost, this will be the provision of public funds to the interests of more money that must be considered a very unwise provision for tax money, Mr. President. That's why I won't be supporting this bill. I'll fight it. Under this opinion, Katrín writes to the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, who stands here, and why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson. Birgitta Jónsdóttir. A senator of Pirata, an officer of the hearing, supports this opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u69	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal for support at the first apartment. The case was presented and tore into an economic and commercial committee. The case is presented concomitantly in 817 on the change in growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001, with subsequent changes i.e. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Both elements seem to be based on the opinion of a committee of experts. There's a lot in the opinion that doesn't hold up. For example, it does not discuss the two basic ideas of financial science, a question of fruitfulness, and modern - day disrespect. A comparison of the payment process in the opinion of this so - called expert committee to show that it is totally meaningless. At the beginning, it is worth pointing to a term mentioned in the bill, i.e. You're not a good judge, are you? It is not an attempt to define what is meant. The nominee suggests a loan that ignores growth inflation at any given time and shows that growth will be independent of inflation. The term is obviously wrong, since interest rates from so - called even indiscriminate loans account for inflation and inflation at any given time, obviously it is not worth recognizable. For example, if you ignore a verdant title and discuss the subject, you will find that in the past 25 years, the interest rates of the so - called responsible loans have been 0.5 to 61% higher than those of the so - called reliant loans. In the last four to six years, the difference seems similar. The strengths of the so-called prices of loans are determined, in part, by contracts where real - life growths are either constant or variable. In the case of changing real - life interest rates, a question on the market is referred to as a question of interest for the market at the time of growth. The variable part, the price-change factor or the price-separation bill, is determined by objective assessment of the index value of consumer prices as measured by Iceland's Habitat Office. In short, the differences between the so-called "beyond bets" and "tempturies" are lent to the following: The loans of retailed loans are determined objectively, i.e. the value factor, but the interest rates of loans in security are determined by guesswork, and the borrower alone makes a decision on variability in an impossibility way. Again, the result is that over the past 25 years, the so - called price - free loans have been made 0.5◯1% higher in yield requirements than the loans of responsibly. So this bill's foolishness is of only interest to loan institutions. To require that only the value of extra pensions can be paid on the most expensive loans an option is more than the lawgiver can bear responsibility. So a proposal is made for a change of 3. The bill. The change aims to allow the value of additional pensions to be paid on a loan that has a mortgage on property used to raise or restore a borrowed property. It is suggested that the bill be approved by a change. In spite of many difficulties, the suggestion for a subject simply means that it will be possible to pay any loans, whether they are insured, i.e. By a measure of Iceland's Habitat, or dissociativeness, as it is called, dependent on the interest of loans, or foreign loans, and the loan is used to raise real estate or to change or improve, so it will be generally a law, not for the most expensive loans that are available to borrowers. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u70	President. It has long been a symptom of a domestic situation in this country that special policy has been put in place, and this bill is a continuation of that policy. The high emphasis that has been put on special policy has resulted in the lack of rent and the security of those who do not have financial resources to cover their heads with roofs has not been very good. Now there is a suggestion that people can use their special savings to buy at their first apartment. All who attended the committee agreed that the provisions presented here are most useful to those who have more material and benefit them more than others who do not have them. If a person is capable of making full use of the source, 500 thousand dollars. Every year, it has to have less than 700,000 bucks. in monthly revenues. Those with less income do not enjoy the tax returns, nor can they take advantage of the tax rate of this 500 you have. K. And that is why this one journey is yet so, as most of the works of this government, when it comes to public finance, that more is done for the wealthy than for the less. Some people like it. I don't think it's good. It is necessary to place far more emphasis on renting than has been done recently. It is not just for the memory we need to focus on the rent market. We need to set up a good tenant where people can rent an apartment at an affordable price, a rent market that is not for profit but that pays people expenses and some compensation for their rent. I'm not talking about a profit-employing company turning up a lease market. I'm talking about being a company called in English Šnon profönst both. Certainly, in spring the law was adopted to set up public rented apartments, and the plan is to build 400 apartments a year in the coming years. ASI think this is not enough, thinking that it takes at least a thousand apartments a year to get us to a rent market that is not just for those who have less income. You see, people's lives have also changed so much. Young people choose to move abroad, they go abroad, and they stay there for a few years, then come home, and maybe go back. Life habits have changed, so I think the demand for special policy, if you don't mind me saying it, is not the same as before. Of course, there are a lot of people who prefer to have their own apartment and who can pay their rent, so to speak, but they also exist, and I think that the group that prefers to be in a safe house, can rent in the long term at a more manageable price and be more mobile; they can make the decisions in life to go abroad for a while or to make the money for others rather than bind them into concrete. As a result, I feel that we have to put much more emphasis on the rent market. But this bill is about making it easier for young people to buy their first apartment. This means being able to collect special property savings for ten years. The committee stated that there are some disorders on the bill. Apart from the much emphasis on special policy, there are some disorders on the bill, and there could have been a better way to work on it. The BSRB comments on the bill point out the problems involved in tying these up to the purchase of the first apartment. Many people have trouble finding an apartment if they choose it, even if they already had an apartment. People may have lost an apartment in debt, so the trouble with obtaining an apartment is not limited to obtaining their first apartment. Perhaps it is possible to aim for people who did not have an apartment for three years or something like that, but that is not done here. Iceland's border does not take sides on the bill, but it is primarily about income exchange and transfer between generations. But in a report or reasoning with the bill, there is no attempt to evaluate that effect. I think that's very reprehensible. This afternoon's discussion shows that the European Union of Iceland has made comments that it did not have any consultation. However, it is clear that this will affect the economics of rural society because of losing their income when the special savings are made tax free, they lose out on account of it. The European Union was not consulted, but the report says that there will be no effect on the rural population, since property and services taxes will be raised as a result of increasing activities and weighed against the loss of income. There are no other calculations on this. It just comes out like that. In view of this, I want to stress the fact that my rural society has not been replaced with the loss of income they had when these special treatments of the special savings were introduced to the correction so called, when people's debts were corrected by some of the people being paid themselves with special savings. It was a correction to allow people to pay off their debts themselves; certainly by the fact that property savings was tax free. Even if this remains to be achieved, local societies have not yet improved. This, on its own, has caused great problems for the communities, especially for the communities in the vicinity of Reykjavík, Kópavogur, and the areas around it, but also in Reykjavík and in the larger rural areas. Then there's a small skate, I think, over the influence of the bill on the survival of a Kingdom Fund, but the comments say: Surely, then, when all is added together, the effect of the operation on the growth of the Kingdom Fund will be only relatively small. However, the impact of the legalization of the bill will mainly depend on the degree of participation in this new process and the future development of the growth reform system. The long-term effects of these measures are considerable, but as shown in the report, they cannot be accurately estimated as there is no distribution of the income loss. A respectable president. It's just words and speculations, and no attempt seems to determine how much this can be. Granted, there are gaps - if this is so strong, the effect will be great - and the scene of what the effect will be. But that is exactly no attempt to do so in this regard. This was clearly shown in a report from the highest level. The financial secretary of generation accounts he took up with our members of the United States that it is not a custom that the income of younger age groups has declined from the income of other age groups in recent decades. It has been shown that this is happening here, and so is the case in neighboring lands. There are a number of reasons. People spend more time in school, so to speak. When younger people earn less money when compared to older people's income - they are lower now than they were some years ago - it makes it seem that it is harder for younger people to save money if they are going to buy an apartment. That's kind of the thing. I'll have to think again, think outside the box, as they say. There are new ways to approach the facilities of young people. An experiment is made on the bill, but it doesn't look like it's working. The present problem is not addressed. It takes ten years for you to develop or bear fruit, so to speak, but the problem is much now, so you need to think of some other way to meet him. We in the United States have come up with ideas about how to do this, called it "House real estate's prerogatives." It is the idea that people who have a right to make a profit, so to speak, can take it in advance and use it for a down payment. That'd do it right away. Granted, for the next five years the interest would not be improved, but it seems that the big problem is now to pay for the payment, but the problem of payment is reduced if people are started. For example, a respected president shows that people are paying high rent. If they could pay a payment and get off with their own housing, the payload of loans would probably be lower than young people are currently paying rent. Then they should be able to cope even if they have already received the advance compensation. People ask: What is being suggested? Is it being suggested that wax making plans be taken in advance, and then people get into trouble because it is people who would otherwise receive interest benefits? No, we're offering to help people with the down payment, and then people can manage the payload. It is possible to make such a good comparison now, by comparing what people are paying in rent with what they would have to pay if they had been paid for and if they were paying off. It's outside the box. It would solve the problem as soon as the bill does not. In addition, the idea we put forward is so that it is primarily useful to those who earn less money. These suggestions suggest that those who now receive interest in the process can benefit from this resources contrary to the bill we talk about here that is primarily useful to those who have better equipped, those with higher income, those who live under the circumstances that parents or others can help them. A respectable president. Unfortunately, the bill, like so many other things that come from this government, is primarily for those who have it better in the community and not for those who need help. I don't think the bill will solve the problem or see the fact that I want to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u71	Mr. President. I just want to talk about this because there may be one of the big issues we're all dealing with, whether groups that are now in the government or we who are in a position of government, this is the subject of the day, i.e. House - to - house, especially for young people. Therefore, I felt that it was proper to discuss only the way in which this was to take place, the motion of the forwarding government and the Independence Party, i.e. for this support to buy at the first apartment with a special kickback. I immediately said, when this route was gone, using my special savings, that I didn't like it, and that I don't like it. There should have been something other than special savings, for it was thought that when we arrived in the early years, this would be our pensions, extra pensions, so maybe we would make it okay, those who can still afford it. Of course, as this has been attributed, not everyone can enter a special property fund. There have been many attempts, whether they were brands or what they were now, there was certainly a way to store up for a down payment to buy real estate. But that in itself was not limited to one property, for one person did not have to resolve everything at once. But I think the way this is suggested, and it actually shows in the opinion of the greater part that it is not sufficiently planned. It was shown in the case of the people before me that there are no staged images on the effect, the various influences. All we know is that this has a lot to do with countries and societies, especially communities. I was at a local financial convention recently held in which the government is criticized for the loss of income that has already been due to this process, since rural income is being taken into the future. Although this is said and finance minister put it in such a way that it should be returned to a higher outlet or something for the countryside or higher real estate taxes, it is not. The real estate market in the capital area is quite different from that of many other places. People are being spoken of as being so much better, and as a result, growth reforms have become much lower than they were, of course, because of the decisions the government has made. And there is something that makes real - estate evaluations quite significant, especially in the big capital area, have, of course, increased the property of people, but that does not change the fact that they have nothing more between their hands to support themselves. That's what it's all about, that people have to have time and the ability to make a living to earn money. What the majority of it shows is that if there is a significant increase in savings, as this bill is prepared, it reduces the state's income tax supply to some extent, both individual and legal populations, but the quality taxes and a slight increase in the insurance bill are all that is said to back it, but there is no particular evidence to it. I must also agree that the special policy is very rich in our community. I come from a small community. She's very rich there. They only rent who can't buy. This has not necessarily been the case because people do not want to have it, but they have been on the other side. Now it's just a choice, as it turned out. A senator who spoke before me. Young people just want this choice. They want to get up and move, go anywhere, and go without being committed to owning property and even having to be sold or sold. There's something we need to focus primarily on, it's called now. The call is not for much special policy. Although I'm not against her at all, so they say here, I want both of them to be and opportunities to do both. That's exactly what I said earlier, that today it doesn't look that way that the rent market is for those who can't buy, but it's a very special choice. There's been talk of generation accounts here, and it's pretty sad, of course. That's what we're supposed to focus on. We're supposed to focus on improving our terms, I mean, young people's salary. There is, of course, striking information on how much that group has fallen behind. I don't really understand why there has been no more in the discussion on the part of the government than in such specific measures. We've talked a lot about older people's interest. We've talked about the quality of disability, but we've talked much less about young people's interest. It's kind of sad because, of course, it's what people are taking over, so they need to be cared for more. And part of it is supporting it in housing. But most of all, I think we need to consider how we can do this in a provisional way. We have, however, discussed a great reduction in child development and growth. That is part of what constitutes a provisioned family of children, and that would have, for example, been the case. You can do better, not just shrink and not just keep up as if it had evolved if it hadn't been moved, but to do even better. In view of the 1st minority of young people and the need to focus on improving their benefits, it is noted that not only is the labor president or other points that point out this fact but they come from the other side also, e.g. from a business agency, that the problem is not being addressed, which is an unfavourable remuneration of younger generations. It points out that rather than adding, a more reasonable plan is to put in place, as it were, to put in even one of the housing support systems. There may not be so many people in themselves who can take advantage of this. This is from Allianz, who has been authorized from 2002 to offer clients a insurance protection contract, i.e. In particular, customers of someone who is not going to be able to take advantage of this plan are about 22,000 Icelanders. The group is not larger than this, it is only a very small percentage of young people, they may be middle - aged and older, or those people who are in high - paying situations and may not necessarily need this, i.e. any support. Also, I feel that there is a difference between people who lost everything because of the circumstances of which they were not able to take advantage of this opportunity if it becomes possible, even though I'm not in favor of it, there is actually a difference between certain groups. There's a lot of discrimination between people. This, of course, does not benefit people at all. I think it's perfectly acknowledged that this is not going to help the worst. I would have liked to see some other approach in this context. It has also been noted that money lacks the resources that have been approved here to achieve the purpose for it. It has also been shown that it would be wise to set up taxes on housing and for building in the general tenet system so that young people can be realistic, which may be a way for them to get some savings to enter payment, since this is a long time as set here. I think it takes about ten years to save up an apartment in the middle. Once again, of course, I aim for the masses. It simply cannot be what we want to do. We're trying to solve today's problem today. Of course, I know and realize that it doesn't happen overnight, there's no note in it, and it takes time to build a house to meet these needs. But few are to be built, and far, to the point of need. Governments are said to support some 400 apartments a year, i.e. In the next five years, we've got a national budget program. Based on what has happened to those who have become familiar in this business, that is not enough. There are a lot of people who point out that these are not the resources, but they are somehow meant to be stressful. You have wondered whether this is such a purchase or whether the board of directors is convinced that this is the best way to go with this group, i.e. The young people, and then the plague. BSRB has pointed out in its review that the amount of money that individuals or partners can provide in this way or that they are too low to live up to the payment that needs to be paid, i.e. this 20% of real estate prices as it is today and let alone in five years if the development of real estate prices is going along as expected. Because this was also just a matter of growth, interest rates, and insurance, and all of that is also one of the things you watch that one bill imposes restrictions on the price-settling loans for a particular group of people. There is an ongoing separation in the state of the LAIN bill, which is before the council, and the insurance policy is established to 40 years of age. It would be safe to say that there is a considerable overlap between what the government is accomplishing. It seems that this is because the government groups come in different ways and have different opinions about it and do not seem to have agreed on how to deal with it. When we talk about growth and insurance, the interest benefits have been followed. In 2011, this year's budget estimated to be only 6 billion and has dropped by 70% in five years. This is because the work of order has been changed, and then real - estate evaluations have increased, and the income of some income group has certainly increased, happily. I'm only going in the rest of the way that an In-Valid lab makes it a subject, i.e. information on how to show this to sex pay. Turns to the point that women and women's choice and education and sex have been marked by women who are often employed, as we know and have talked repeatedly here at the General Assembly, which is less paid. And then there is this unexplained difference in pay, which means that women don't pay for 40 days a year, many of them each, and a lot of them. Of course, they also work part - time, so that their savings will be completely less than the men who are even more motivated by this amount of money. In effect, it says that considering these facts, sexual discrimination is being reflected at the time of payback. It may be concluded that the tax economy and the possible use of property are useful to men rather than to women. Maybe that's what this is about too. This is exactly the way I'd like to say that this discrimination I've talked a great deal about reflects once again, unfortunately, a lot of things that this government has done, i.e. that those who have it better are given more opportunities than those who need help and that the paths and fibers seem to lie there to approach them. I can't somehow decide whether or not to use our collective taxpayers to distinguish different groups, whether they get a higher tax charge or in the form of a deposit, but they earn less money can, many each. It's really so different from the system we've got here in our time. It was just fine, so I'm going to witness back to the local financial conference, from the Ágústa Guðmundsdóttir, at ASI, how it all started, this housing support and how it's developed. I'm not here to support the bill because I feel that this, like I've gone over, goes against my ideologies and our left green people, where we would rather use our money to support those whose feet are in society rather than support those who just have it and really need nothing more than others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u72	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee on bill for budget money for 2016 from the greater part of the employment board. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted Þór Hermannsson and Lúðvík Guðjónsson from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The bill has an unorthodox format for the past few years, since it takes only a relatively few unforeseen fees, but it is not relevant to reevaluation of income and loans. The bill suggests changes to 46 sheep at the remuneration gate leading to 88,003,4 billion. K. elevated permissions. Now, more part is suggesting a total of 554 million. K. additional increase. The 2016 budget was 695,071,2,000,000. K. ... and if the bill is approved, it will total 783,628,6 billion. K. Re-evaluation: Table on page 19 In the bill, a good view of reassessments and incomes is given within the year. It shows performance sizes with and without stability. Approximate, i.e. in addition to capital gains and expenditures, an estimated 400 billion dollars was estimated. including stability production, but about 63.6 billion dollars. without them. It is now estimated that the initial equation will be 37.8 billion. with stability support and 2.8 billion k. without them. Re-evaluation of the state's income accounts for a total of 37.1 billion dollars. raise money, except for the stability spending, but 77.5 billion dollars. including them. At the remuneration rate, the largest is about 83.5 billion. The contribution due to the A-inventment of the State's Penitentiary is made in the bill of changing the law on the Pension Fund of Ministers of the State now available for the General Assembly, case No. 873. Sadly, it may appear that this agreement is broken, as important as it is now, and that much work is behind it. I'm expecting that later, there will be a change in the motion on this subject. Other changes in schedule account for a total of 14.4 billion, of which 5 billion will be paid. increase in capital taxes, which the government fund pays itself and also moves on the income side of the budget. As per the loan plan, there will be some changes from what was planned in budgets of the year. The main decline in debt, as planned, is that 30% of the property in the Lands Bank is no longer expected to be sold to pay off a debt group published to reimburse the banks. Instead, a part of a stability proposal has been used to finance the cost of some 26 billion dollars, as well as four billion dollars. of the state funds set up in Iceland's Secret Bank. It is estimated that some 30 billion dollars will be used. additional stability initiatives to pay off debt for the rest of the year. Second, stability has been arranged to pay down some 25 billion dollars. A bond published by the State Bank in Iceland, but instead of fully paying for it, it was decided to pay off foreign loans of 64 billion dollars. This was done in view of the strong position of the currency reserve and was financed by the foreign deeps of the Federal Bank. In addition to the previously appointed contributions to the head of the state's Penitentiary, which is expected to be in the bill, you can find suggestions on a total of 39 terms on the remuneration side of the A-section budget which are agreed that either there are cases that were ineligible or that are now clearly or unavoidable, including for new laws and government decisions. It's a total of 4,403.4 million. K. There, weighing more than 1,500 million. K. contribution due to an agreement on the basis of nursing services and services and 800 million. K. contributions due to the high growth of applications for asylum in Iceland beyond the level of budget. That amount is distributed to several members of the State Department. That leaves the bill equal to 562 billion. K. The cost of elections to the Generals and 427 million. K. due to recording of new so-called S-labelled medicinal products. Also suggested is 216 billion. K. contributes to measures to improve the safety of tourists. One of my ways and spreads to a number of budgets. About the adjustment proposals: The more part contributes to six changes to the bill. First of all, transfer due to failure of the bill work, with 37.5 billion. K. proposals to contribute to increased IRS were falsely registered on the 09-214 head tax committee, but proposed to advance it to the State's 09-215 tax research director in accordance with government plans, as reflected in the text of the bill. Second, a proposal for a change in the name of the team 04-406 Marine and Water Research Centre is proposed according to the legal name of the Agency. 112/2015. The majority assumes that the corresponding name change will be made in the bill for next year's budget. Third, a proposal is made about 38 million. K. contribute to the travel centres by 04-559 1,41 to promote the level of staff within the tourism service. The project is intended to be used by the European Environment Agency and to prepare training for travel services. Fourth, a proposal is made about 100 million. K. A contribution to the chief of the Southnes at 06-312 to finance increased border security at Keflavour Airport due to the rise in tourists. It is estimated that passengers in the outer borders of the Cheflavík Airport will increase by 30% last year. According to Istavia, the waiting period as an intermediate in Leifs Station is extended for up to 3 hours. During a period of stress, if the annual work of the border is not increasing by eight to nine years. In recent years, Istavia has temporarily funded a part of the increased border security work, which is now completed, and the police office itself carries all the cost of being protected. Fifth, a proposal is made about 350 million. K. a contribution to the induction of a new health care system by 08-500 cut-off centres at 08-10.10 Health Care Centres in general. It is expected that, in connection with a new system, there will be an increase in the number of clinics, especially family doctors and nurses. Finally, some 66 million are proposed. K. a donation in the past 02-318 High Schools, stock costs to complete construction and equipment purchases due to a schoolyard at Southland's High School. This is 60% of the budget and is passed, as the member of the community financed 40% or 44 million. K. which is missing for full use. The greater part suggests that the bill will be adopted by the above - mentioned changes made in a special Senate document. I'm calling back on the fact that a change in motion is expected out of the Department of Penitentiary of the State. Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice was absent from the case, but under these publications of Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Guðre Þórðarson, Ásmundur Huldursson, Friðriksson, and Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u73	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to think only that there is, like, a what. A senator says, changes to be expected. That is why I assume that the matter is addressed to a financial committee, where the pension budget was clearly not working well enough, where there was a fault, so that point goes out. I'd like to make it a subject that we've talked about at times, what's seen, and what's unpredictable. It's a last-law that handles what's unpredictable, isn't it? They are to do so, and we have tried to be careful and to do better. So I'd like to flip it off with the senator that the third motion here is 38 million. K. contributes to the transport management centre, which will promote the level of education in tourism. It is to be set up the Knowledge Centre for travel. I'd like to ask the senator if he's studied what's behind, what's underneath, whether others can handle it or how it's done today. Why is there a institution, or what is this? These millions are on budgets. Is this expected to be a yearly donation, or is this unique and specific contribution? Now that's October, is it on a yearly basis? What does that mean? Can we expect a higher amount of money in the coming years to this institution? Is there anything the senator can tell me about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I'm not going to tell the members of the next election what to do, whether or not they should continue to make this contribution to these matters. I trust them to decide for themselves. The tourist stream to the country will always be bigger and bigger. No matter how much increase the optimistic population can predict, it always seems to be greater. There's got to be a way of saying it's gonna blow up in our arms. We don't have time to plan. As this verse says, efforts are being made to make some effort in these matters, not only to advance the level of education but also to try to resist it. I can, as it were, simply repeatedly that there is a color, an attempt to meet these increases. It's kind of no matter what we do, it's always like we never do enough for this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u75	Mr. President. I can hear it at the moment. A senator says he doesn't quite know what's behind him. I'm very into education in tourism, I think it's a huge need. It is not a matter of planning to put the members of Congress in the next terms of the rules. Rather, it is the establishment of the European Commission's Knowledge Centre. We're making something new, and we must be saying that it's set up on solid financial laws or something like that. That is why I ask if there is a single-change process that is sufficient to establish this or if there is a continuation. I would plan, whether it's going to travel Control and it's marked this institution or not, that we're going to have to contribute funds to it. I would like to know, and we may be able to get that information, since the matter is being discussed. It was not shown, in the brief meeting where the matter was taken out, what was behind it. There's something called High School in Kópavogi, and there's a travel education that's been conducted, and it's a question, when you wonder if we're spreading the charges. Perhaps not, perhaps it is a far better way than what already exists. I don't want to say that because I don't know about it, so I would have liked that information. I'll call for it. So I have to say, in the last second of my life, a minority of these are critical of the University of the South. It is not only possible to build a house, as we repeatedly pointed out in the budget talk, and to think that there is no need to buy into it. This is not unexpected in our view, nor is the pressures experienced in Cheflavík, which has been suggested. The other might be the question I want to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u76	A respectable president. Visitors are being instructed in many lands. I will not begin to appreciate it, or I will have a view of whether such studies are better at this school or at someone else's. We have a travel management station and I shall quite admit that I have not submerged so deeply into that business, I trust those who handle the business to do it well. I'm not gonna think of that. I think it's nice to spread the charges, and as I told you before, the stream of travel to the country just seems to get bigger all the time. I think that's exactly what we need to spread to try to hold it. What is seen and what is unpredictable - I agree perfectly with it. A senator in that if we build a schoolhouse, we need a machine. Why didn't they come somewhere else into the law? I can totally agree with that question. But this is how it came to us, and I'm not interested in seeing a new house standing empty and unused. I don't think it would be much later to buy that device and start using the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u77	Mr. President. I recommend the Committee on bill for budget 2016 from a smaller section of the budget board. On September 27, 2016, a bill was presented at the General Assembly of September 27, in a unique manner compared to comparable primes in recent years that changes in government funds are not expected even now to be expected. The minority criticize that practice, thinking that it is new to the highest degree. The financial and financial secretary to announce two or more budgets per year is not exemplary. The bill offers suggestions for an increase in the total rate of 88,003,4 billion. K. and it's appearing in 46 legal teams. Farestly, about 83.5 billion k. To finance now the value of the pension rights of a partner in the A-section of the Pension Fund of the state's employees, but as mentioned in a speech by the oar. A prominent member of the Committee's Committee for Review of the Court's Office is available to withdraw it with a change of motion so that the case can be discussed between discussions. Gifts Are Enforced in Public Punishment, No. 123/2015, approved at the current council. Investments 2016 will be the last of those that fall under older budgets, No. 88/1997. The terms on the role of budgets are similar, and it is expected that there will be increased funds to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget year. Despite a clear law, there are some suggestions in the bill that cannot be considered unpredictable. A classic example is the budget for the so-called S-labelled medicinal product estimated on the health insurance unit. It's about 427 million. K. Because of these efforts this year, but comparable funds have been provided in budgets over the past few years. Such ongoing problems are explained by the lack of financial resources at a time. Time and again, the situation is that the Health Ministry Plan is not compatible with financial laws. As a result of differences between counseling the welfare and financial system, it is anticipated that a plan on the real growth of the party will fail at the beginning. The budget is based on either lower physical growth or the inclusion of specific drug measures that will not be carried out year after year. Not only with S-labelled medicinal products are the costs of several financiers far beyond financial resources within the year without any proposal for a rise in authority in the bill or for any specific action taken. In many institutions, this arrangement allows business halls to build up from year to year without a rise in authority or action. An example of this is the Landstics, Hospitals, Health Centres in the South and West, Iceland's National Congress, District Court, Iceland's New World Center, the National Institute for Agriculture at the Hospital and the University of Hólar. The conclusion is that governments have not been able to secure the budget, so there is no such additional financial support, and they think it is a small part that has failed to improve the budget despite new government laws. It is now estimated that the total balance of state funds without stability will be negative by more than 53 billion dollars. But he was positive about 20 billion dollars. last year, 46 billion in 2014. This year inside the home is 83 billion. Implicit With the LS. This is shown in the budget bill, but as I said before, it has been decided to take it back, so the problem must be set back by Section 3. It is constantly called for an increase in funds for various categories, such as road construction, social security, and investments and health management. The development of overall recovery shows that the government has not been successful in controlling government affairs despite continuing economic growth throughout its reign. The bill contains budgets that cannot be considered unforeseen. Some examples are: The U.S. president of Iceland requesting a total of 10 million. A.K., two minor factors that are estimated to weigh about 5 billion. K. Either one of them. It is suggested that the State General get 15 million. K. A federal attorney gets 10 million. K. ... becauseof a project carried out by the State Department without the appearance of a corresponding reduction in funding in the Ministry. 9.6 billion is suggested. K. I'm going to a class teaching program in elementary schools and 50 million. K. a donation to a language field project for the Icelandic language. Request in 3 billion. K. A contribution to the State Department for services to the former President of Iceland. It's about 10 billion. K. to support the State Department's work on foreign matter and a total of 98 million. K. to police in the highlands because of increased tourist currents and 27.5 billion. K. to help with financial planning. At last, additional documents from the EEA and the Waterland National Park are also requested because of the increased number of tourists. The above cases are many important and important, but the smaller part points out that they should be left in either the frame of budgets, e.g. For the President of Iceland, the Ministry of State and Speech, or should have been properly planned for the budget of the year like contributions from the tourist stream, which was completely predictable and strange to bring in funds, requests and proposals to lawsuits, which were completely obliging. A minority of questions remain regarding the contribution to the EEA for work on the preparation of Iceland's first water program in accordance with law No. 36/2011, water management. According to one report, remuneration was expected to be admissible on a job that could depend on most of the implementation of the country's water directive but it has not been followed and has been funded by the cost of the act of the law. A number of comments on the water management bill presented in the World Council of January 2015 have resisted and counted, for example. The European Union, with all unsatisfactory, will be funded by rural society and the Ministry will misunderstand the water directive in this respect. Clearly, governments have failed to control the project, so they are not working in harmony with the objectives set at the time of the decree. Mr. President. My section of this section contains a section on the Penitentiary Fund of Ministers of the State and the contributions set out in these budgets for them, but I will not go over it in this speech where the greater part has proclaimed changes in financial resources for the head of the state. We will then discuss that in the 3rd districts. ... fortheimportation ofthe bill. Most of the changes made to the majority of the Committee were presented to the committee at the same meeting as the case was reviewed. In no way is such a good example, and it is time for a new business to be in charge of budgetary decisions. That's 38 million. K. designed to promote tourism in various ways. There is no suggestion to be a budget, either an older budget or a recent government law on government finance, in which neither unexpected nor unforeseen expenses are involved. About 66 million. K. The contribution to the equipment purchases of a new workshop to the South University of San Francisco in Selphoss seems to have been completely forgotten to plan for equipment purchases and to claim that they are less efficient. The building is a treasurer, but it's no equipment. There is no way to teach the to-dos to the workshops unless this funds do come into existence. The smaller part thinks that the social security improvement should be provided at least increase in minimum wage. Counts it to be 69th pars. pricing on social security has been put to protect the groups of men who get paid their pensions, but not to keep them in all the lowest wages. Now, when minimum wage increases proportionally more than any other salary in this country, there is a fair requirement for improving social security as a result of this trend. In the budget for the current year, the smaller item was proposed to improve the quality of the elderly and the microchip from May 1, 2016, as shown by collective labour agreements. An example is seen in agreements in 2011, when the increase took place in the middle of the year, but it did not wait for years to come, as it is currently being done. The lowest pay took up increases on May 1. and the older ones and the poor should also take into account this increase and be expected for financial assistance. The smaller part contributes to the change in the course of change. Mr. President. Under this view, the memory of the section will be written along with the one listed here. Senators Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Brynhildur Pétursdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-10-167.u78	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill for financial support by 2016. As in the minority opinion, there are several points that we have made in which we have made comments, and not just now, but in the years that this government has made money. It's certainly not just been created by this government, it's been lapsus for decades. Somehow, we were expected that when the new budget changed, it would change, but now it is anticipated that an additional budget will be submitted because of the fact that, as was attributed, there will be no reevaluation of income, or any such. It's just based on the decisions the government has already made, what is suggested here. We need to get in touch with that in the administration system, and there's concern that at this point we haven't been able to get through a large number of lawsuits like the S-labelled medicinal products or health insurance and the welfare department somehow never be able to figure them out so that they can pass the budget. There's something that needs to go over and do better. Otherwise, we're always rolling the same ball ahead of us, and then the purpose of the new law will not be accomplished. I think this is something we have to do. The application is 427 million now. K. Due to the S-labelled medicinal products. Of course, we knew, and we discussed it very repeatedly with the budget that there was a cumulative need in the system and that for a very long time new drugs had not been taken with any sensitivity. It was clear that we would have to do much better than we would have done. So for the first time, it can't be said that it's unpredictable, and it seems that the design is always very mechanical. In our opinion in the lesser part, it is attributed to the immediate beginning of the budget that these categories do not expect to have normal physical growth. There are quite a number of budgets that are considerably higher than financial resources, and yet there is no proposal for this in terms of money, since the Ministry laid it up, as I said earlier, that in all likelihood there would be another financial bill following the intervention of a new government. We have large institutions, such as the World Committee International Hospital, and we have medical transportation, and certain health institutions and local law enforcement services that have been having problems. Then, of course, our schools - whether our university or our high school. Some may be able to stay within their limits, but it is clear that others cannot. We've taken high school here on discussion, including In Akureyri, for example, there is a wealth problem that more and more people have and there seems to be no way to cope with it. A great many complain that the compensation is not enough for the government's agreements with its institutions. This, of course, is shocking and comes about to bring these institutions to a home. It is always assumed that any agency, built - in surgery, people's sources, and other such items will be added to this, that there is no compensation for the pay raise. This applies not only to school but to every government agency that seems to be more and less likely to come out, not all but to very many, health institutions especially where shift work is and where there are various pressures, law enforcement, and local authorities, and who have made known the situation. This does not seem to have worked out well enough. For the good of the money, the status of the state's funds is certainly fine, but as I have often discussed in the Public Assembly Hall, it may be much better because of the subsidies made by government, whether it's a stable donation or a bank tax or something else that has come in, in addition to oil prices, dollars, and many other things that have played with us so far. This is primarily what explains the good status of the state treasure, although well - paying taxes are still growing. As the tourist current increases, this happens. It does not change that the state's underlying income stocks have been systematically weakened in the terms of the election, and it is clear that when the stability budget breaks, we may not have a very large subsidies for the government. Despite the fact that economic growth has been here for as long as the government has been in power, in fact, from 2010, the development of total survival has not been what it should have been. In terms of some of the departments that have been considered here, there are some institutions that we consider - although not large sums of money, everything is important, of course organizations are concerned about a variety of resources - they should be able to do minor things without the need for additional funds. There should be a way to adapt. The next year, when we start deciding the frames for all the lawsuits, it must be tested that money must be shifted between lawsuits, not perhaps among the budgetors of the plot against certain organizations. This refers to the office of the President of Iceland requesting 10 million. A.M., including Because of homepages. You would have thought it could wait, but it wouldn't matter whether such pages would be in progress at the end of the year or if it would take off after the New Year's Eve. It may also have been possible to make some adjustments within the seminary. Here, too, are subjects that pay a fine price, and we just say that we have nothing to do with such projects, not at all. Many are important and important, e.g. The less than 10 billion. K. ... whoschooledindepth at elementary schools and 50 million. K. a donation to a language field project for the Icelandic language. These are certainly important matters, but of course you wonder whether the matter is so urgent that they cannot wait for new financial arrangements. However, here is another matter that is urgent and cannot ask for any new budget, I can totally agree with it, the alienities in which the work is being strengthened so that quick treatment can be provided so that the process takes a little faster on all who come to the matter, those who come to this land as well as, of course, the founding system. They're also being put into law enforcement only, including... due to an increased tourist current which was also completely available. I've talked a lot about the law being overborrowed. It's a big deal that police officers are alone in large districts. These days have come to conclusions about pressures, and concern has been expressed by escapes from the profession and other factors. This lay ahead of us at the beginning of the year. This also lay ahead of us at the beginning of the year. This is no surprise, it is something that should have been dealt with long ago in a much more determined way, and especially in view of the fact that the road to travel is so heavy that the infrastructure in transportation has been allowed to drudgery too much, causing more accidents and more to occur. It is not enough that all of our heavy transports are on the road but that the number of buses and the number of tourists on the road may not always be the case. I made up the subject of the 1st. This matter of the EEA and its first water management programme. Remuneration was always expected to use the water resources, and it was largely due to the implementation of the water directive and to be established in 2013. We've never been able to walk, and the government funds have been financed so far. An attempt has not been made to determine whether or not an intermediate meet for this cut-off, i.e. that items come from state funds and items from those who use our resource. I think it should be so that, to some extent, it's divided. It is apparent that governments have been unable to handle the situation or that they are just not ready to pay the job, that is, in fact, the conclusion that I find out. We had considerable criticism of these adjustments. As I said in answer to the majority opinion's authority, it's not normal to come in with the modification proposals of this way, I don't now talk about when the pension business was in here, too, even though it's taken aside now, to set them up and not even answer questions about what's under there, e.g. about what I mentioned before, the Knowledge Centre for travel, whether it's an institution that's going to need a yearly donation from the state fund and how much. I know it's planned that the Management Board will negotiate with the Educational Center for Employment for the government. I think it's a stuck-up mail. Now I'm not going to say that this is not the best way to go. I'm not going to check it out until I've done a full research. I agree with this, convinced that we need to improve the skills and education of the class that is in travel - service even more than we have been doing. Of course, we are taking in much unskilled people in an effort to do this service. It has also resulted in low pay being made in the tourism service and if anything is possible to improve both, i.e. that people will be better at what they're doing as soon as they raise their pay, I think they need to do, I'm ready to see if this is the best way to go. I still think it matters that we have what's called education in this sector, and you ask yourself naturally if it's wise to spread energy. So if we have this study elsewhere or are we supposed to have it elsewhere, we are in line with the needs in the direction the tourism calls out, if we have it in the secondary and secondary educational centres of the industry? These are questions that you need to know as well as what is expected to be the cost each year. I think it matters. Finally, I'm going to mention what our opinion will lead to regarding the benefits of social security. We in our memory have repeatedly emphasized that they should at least to follow the minimum wage increase. We're going to do it here. We think it's 69. the social security legislation has been set to protect groups against environmental impairment, i.e. those who get paid a pension, there is a fall to keep these people in a poverty trap. Now we see that the minimum wage is increasing proportionally more than any other pay in the country, and it is not normal for one group or, in fact, two poor people and the elderly to have a pension for their status, to remain behind. We also believe that the increase should have been repetitive since May 1, 2016, as expected by the collective agreements, and this is an example of the collective agreements made in 2011. Then came a midyear rise, it was not waited until the year of the year as it is being done today. We'd like to see it taken care of for financial aid, and we'd make some adjustments in that direction. It will likely be discussed, as well as any other changes proposed by the government, as well as the prospective case I have repeated regarding the Knowledge Committee.
