ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u1	With letters dated August 18, 2016, the president has requested this, as per the 8th stanzas of Figure 1. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports: Transboundary activity between parts of the country ▪ impact factors in a tricky change process and reporting on specific factors in the management of Isavia ohf.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u2	A respectable president. In the news last night, and now back today, we learn that the research committee of plane accidents investigated three cases of serious illness by members of the Icelanda crew. Adding this is the fact that several more cases have been reported, according to the IcelandaIntel. For some reason, this is the case according to Labour Protection Act, No. 46/1980 people working in the attic and at sea are excluded from that law. Two. These laws are not only a matter of sailing but also of air travel. As far as I can see, there are no other laws to replace, and the situation is that there is no protection laws for these classes. There is, however, one rule in the Association Room that has to take steps to improve the safety and health of the pilots. The problem with it, however, is that, according to it, a pilot himself is largely responsible for the surveillance of his flight security teams. Some airlines are expected to monitor themselves as to their employees' work protection, at least in general. I think there is good reason for the council to consider this matter further. Why is there no protection laws for these classes? They depend on bringing us the most expensive currency revenues in the national market by importing tourists and fishing and selling fish. There should not be any choice or sensation in the Icelanda from the management board whether and how they switch e.g. about air filters in their airplanes, but the case is that it's very costly. Of course, official and official monitoring is required.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u3	V.E.G. President. During the council last night, I spoke to the bank booth at the Copenhagen Department and criticized them for making a strong decision. Also, I discussed the tremendous profits of Iceland's banks. Now we wait and see what profits we're making at the other banks, including... National Bank and Arion Bank. In my speech yesterday, I urged that financial institutions that provide such profits allow the homes of the country to enjoy, for example. with a lower interest level or by canceling services or at least reduce the number of service costs. It is important to increase trust between public and financial institutions, which has deteriorated substantially since the 2008 financial collapse. Everyone wants to see it. Today, the good news is that Iceland's Sidlabanki finally decided to reduce the height of control by 0.5 percent. According to the news, this decline can be attributed to economic stability. Such news reports are positive, and it is vital that this development continue. This success has been due, among other things, to decisions - I say - taken in the government community and the Independence Party, which is a matter of returning a baseless budget and paying off the debt of state funds. News reports today also show that the banks are delighted to reduce the growth rate and feel that the decline will affect the trade of foreign countries and even the growth of housing loans, but it is also noted in the same report that this does not necessarily require the continuation of growth development. So, finally, I would like to use my last seconds of speech to overemptify what I said in my speech yesterday that it is extremely important that financial institutions that pay profits and make good profits allow to run to our country's homes with a lower interest level or a lower level of services paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm going to do it again at the beginning of a discussion of the council's activities to describe my joy with the progress of the Senate work, both here at the Senate Hall and at work on committees with many important issues. It is not unusual that when the end of the council is due to be disturbed by an election, and then it will be more of a test to the highest level of human activity. A president with an organized and clear focus on the progress of events and expected to cooperate well with members of Congress. This is an encouragement to me to highlight the effectiveness and success of the council so that all the hard work involved will be done in a way that the result would be careful. However, the news of the day, a respectable president, must be a decision made by the money policy committee on a decline of 0.5% of the control interest, with its main fruits decreasing from 5.75.0% to 5.25%. I thought about a week ago what decision the money policy committee takes at the foundation, whether the money policy committee would continue to focus on keeping consumption and borrowing with high control growths, or valuing expectations at the economic criteria available for low oil prices, going-up of the kroner and low prices for other imported parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u5	...Garver's gang.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u6	When I tell the news, a respectable president, as well as favorable conditions, stability, money policy has been maintained, and of course it is important to maintain stability. This decision also involves a clue to the intensity of the economy. Governments and decisions during this ideal period promise that we can further reduce physical growth. These include government laws, moderation and realistic financial policies, and financial agendas for the next five years, moderate replacements on budgets for three consecutive years, and much more. As far as I can tell, a respectable president, this is good news for the public and for the business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u7	President. Now for the weekend, the decision-making board of environmental and resource agencies ruled that the Landset must be stopped at The Watchtower Line and the Crimea Line. The decision to delay the development of the projection work programme will continue to be carried out by the decision-making board, while it will be about the protection of the Member States due to the publication of the Community's license for the development of the lines and it is clear that the decision will delay the development of the project for less than a year. In November of the winter, we adopted a new nature protection law, including one. There was increased protection for Icelandic nature, including an increase in so - called special protection from certain natural phenomena. The rule of caution was finally introduced into Icelandic rights, and that includes. to prevent interference with certain natural phenomena unless there is a need for public interest and other costs indeed. The environment evaluation of the Agency has established that there will be irreversible effects on the line lines and thus there will be no protection without the lack of adequate logic under nature protection laws. This calls for material food before continuing. This is an important turning point in the implementation of nature protection in Iceland. There is therefore an important recognition of the status of areas protected by the Icelandic protection laws. Left greens have always emphasized the importance of the fact that nature truly enjoys the doubt and should be especially delighted that this has become the case in this particular case. Thus, not only did the Law letter change with all the votes given here at the Senate Hall last year but there is now a significantly better legal position than it was for the implementation of new laws. That's news.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u8	V.E.G. President. The recent loss has resulted from the recent loss of Iceland's Navy of interest rates, which followed the last bargains when steering growth was up in two stages. Finally, after about 18 months or so, the Secret Bank Department's money policy committee has decided to see the light or at least a little heat and lower the control rate by 0.5%.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u9	They listened to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u10	That decision has been made well. It is shown on the market, a powerful increase has been on the market. The point is, of course, it's too small and too late. What I stopped at were the notes of the bank manager this morning, which include... the appearance of intensive economic growth. Strict economic growth was the very foundation of it for several losss or months ago to increase or keep operating growth unchanged. So instead of looking up and accepting the arguments of wise men like Dr. Ólafur Margeirsson's son and others who have pointed out that Iceland's operating growth is out of rhythm with what happens everywhere else in the world. I'm once again going to mention the level of inflation testing that is not the same as OECD in the United States, which has led to a severely low inflation analysis and success, but the inflation rate in Iceland is too high because of the housing team being contained. This has cost the country's public a considerable amount of money in the past few months and losses because their loans have increased to the level of inflation laid on the Bank of Iceland. Of course, I hope this will be the case if people have gained courage that it lasts them, and this is only the first step out of others because, in any case, the direction of Iceland is still too high and not in any way consistent with the economic and economic conditions of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u11	President. Now it's time to move the police school to a university. To me, it was sweet when it was the highest. The minister of education said that he was going to go to the universities of the country, and the Kingdom Hall asked for an invitation to attend the university. It has now been discovered from this tender auction, that the University of Iceland was the best and most respected. He got 9.5 out of 10 points. But the highest. The minister has decided that the study should be held in Akureyri. Is this to be taught in telecommunications? Where is the greatest need for police officers? It's on the southwest corner. Where are most of the people who might wish to take this study? It's right here on the southwest corner. However, the basis for this assessment is so great that it puts ahead of everything else. I think it's very strange. I wondered if this is another fishing adventure so that there will be one student at the local police school in Akureyri. Isn't there one employee of the Fish Room in Akureyri? I know it might seem like I was born yesterday to talk about this here because it's obviously never to be spoken of at this council. But I wasn't born yesterday. I think this is a scandal. And strange at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u12	A respectable president. Now the children of the land are going to work. The basic school has begun with all the joy and satisfaction it brings. The communities want to pay for the pencils and the erasers and the pencils. I heard from the mayor of the town council in Kopavogi that it would cost the country society 50 to 60 million. In my company at the Cape, it would cost 5 to 6 million. Smokey Town has a 12 - year - old boy who loves the flowers, birds, and nature all. He writes and calculates and works hard at school. But he doesn't speak Icelandic. He's starting in seventh grade. He is deaf, and he has never received a study aid to study Icelandic during his entire school career. The parents went on to receive an offer in study books. It turned out that the books he was to use at school, and they chose five books, would cost 6 million. Nobody wants to pay the books. In Iceland, there are four deaf children who do not receive textbooks to learn their mother tongue. Of course, the mother's language is signed, but they cannot sit in front of the TV and read Icelandic text. They cannot read books or use computers because they do not know Icelandic. We haven't created them in the schools of our country to learn our mother tongue. I think we at the High Council and the institutions involved in these cases need to get our pants cleaned up. We need to be ashamed of ourselves for a little while and put these matters into practice so that all children in Iceland will learn English.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u13	V.E.G. President. The Þórunn of Ólafsdóttir, many of whom have become well - known for her job helping refugees in Greece, was on popular radio 2 afternoons. There she spoke of her experience and told of the distressing circumstances of the people; i.e. Refugees trapped in Greece and largely children. There was one thing she said in this interview that has been very much in me, but that is what the situation of refugees and refugees has been left on this land. You see, I think it's absolutely right from Þórunn. These cases have been a little bit lost. The alien government is simply in part here. V.E.G. Minister of Ólöf Nordal has said that the matter of refugees needs to be guided by human kindness. I agree with her about that. But I'm afraid the experience of a lot of people is that's not really the case. The Agency under the secretary's office, i.e. The U.S. Foreign Institute, however, lacks every humanity in its decisions, pointing out all the people she possibly can, or I actually want to say impossible, on the basis of the Order of Dublin. We simply need to get involved in these matters. I believe the elected agents will be waiting a lot of work on this case. I hope, indeed, that as a community, we have the wisdom to get ministers here after elections who have the courage and can go before their institutions so that humanity will become not only empty but, rather, that what is being guided by the affairs of refugees is being taken into account. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u14	V.E.G. President. This is absolutely absurd, to attend a meeting where the only part of the program is the job of the council. However, there should be votes and may now be unusually red - red, but they had to be delayed because of loose attendance. [[Up front.]] So tomorrow there are certainly unprepared inquiries, perhaps votes, if any will attend to participate in them and one special debate requested by the head of the United States. We were told we had to stay here. It would be so important to move on because of all the big things waiting for us. They're not going to be much of a problem. And fear was, what? That the government would get in the way? I'm just saying, I don't see why I'm here. The request is made for social security and maternity protocols. These are matters of great concern and concern to many people in the community. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has suggested that it is unlikelyly due to a vote in the state-of-the-art budget that the case of the social and housing minister is being treated here. They're not even part of the government. I don't see how we're supposed to finish them at this assembly. The members of the council are being found, but worse yet, the voters are to be mocked. And it's spoken as if the government is here to do business. It has nothing more to do with handing over property to private friends. Let's not give them any more time to do that, and we'll cut this council down.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u15	A respectable president. I was going to come up here and discuss the police school that the University of Akureyri will do and discuss it in a way that's not true. paritaprevir It's Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. I must say, I was up to the point of her speech. I don't know how it feels to think that if something is out there, it must be in some way relaxing. We have never left our fingers in that area, although for decades there has been a university in the capital area where students from the region have gone to the south for years, with no attention to the situation and just something that expands the horizon and benefits people. It would be horrible if someone had to move to Akureyri for two, three years and study there. What a fate. I can't wait to talk like that. I didn't mean to speak so strongly, but I just can't help listening to that speech. Maybe you're right next door. A senator said that the transfer of Fish Room was not good. It was then backed up a little. I've been visiting Fish Room. It's a great job to hire a suitable person there. There's nothing wrong with the operation there. I insist that people get to know things before they say so. [[What about the Committee to Evasion ……]] Yeah, I like it at the highest. Minister to get a menu committee, I don't think there's ever anything done. The review board finds that three schools are eligible. I don't think there's anything we'd like to study, the University of Iceland would always be the best. It's simply the biggest, with the biggest backdrops, with most of the teachers, with the most support, but I ask, "Are we just going to have all the college in Iceland? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Well, then let's just decide. Then let's make the conscious decision that we're all gonna pile up here in the southwest corner and live here. Or should we decide that we are going to build up this country? [[Up front.]] The University of Akureyri has been known to have a very good telecommunications program. It may just be that no one has to move.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u16	Then it'll be a telecommunication.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u17	[[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I had prepared another speech, but I gave it here, perhaps later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u18	A respectable president. I take my leave to ask a respected president of the council, perhaps primarily whether some example is from the history of the council that no other program was made for a council meeting than that of the council. The time I've been here, I don't want any less to do that, but I don't want to state it or any other member of the council here who's been sitting around for a while as long as I've asked. However, if the chairman of the council remembers that there was ever so little program in the council today, only the activities of the council, and no votes, and no language, then it is of course best if he corrected it. At least that's extremely rare. Of course, I'm not going to start complaining that a government I completely disagree with in many and important matters is not bringing in a case here. I think that out of this government it may be said that there will be fewer cases in which it will move here in its last days the better. However, this fascinating person is moved by declarations that the government groups would face a great challenge as a result of the violation of government opposition. A respectable president. Even if I'm glad that I wanted to have a conversation with some government issue, there is no living way when there is no council talk, and when the day after tomorrow nothing is here to be discussed. [[Up front.]] If the government lacks ideas to legalize the last days of the council, I think one of the things worth doing would be banning by the law of this filament that they are so terrified of. Of course, it's been damaging to the council for years, and it's been a long time to stop it here from the council. Now that the transnational community has succeeded in getting the public the right to call for national law from the Council, there is a prerequisite to legalize the public's emergency rights in the country and to ban by law the language that the government groups are so terrified of. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u19	It is not customary for the president to get involved in this discussion, but the questions were primarily addressed to the president and are kindly answered. In itself, the president has not taken steps to review every program far back in time so as to be able to answer questions. But the other knows that it is unusual when it happens at the council's offices that there is not much issue that is ousted from a work programme in the sense that meetings are terminated and, for example, eliminated. promoted to the Senate Committee instead. It was intended for the president to provide votes today as well as for this discussion. The president has worked hard to ensure that both programs such as the council's activities and unprepared queries can be asked because the president strongly emphasizes that the political discussion can be carried out in the council sales as normal. That is why it was the decision of the president to stick to the meeting today. However, it was found that for normal reasons, there are a number of distances, including some. Because of the commitments made by members of the International Committees, which are also part of the Generals' work, as well as the commitments of elections that the president also considers important for members of Congress to be able to work and to care for. That's why there's no vote today. Tomorrow we will have a discussion in which there is an unprepared inquiry to the minister and, however, there is a special discussion that the president has also made very much effort to get on and be here at least. Two or three times a week, if possible. Congress will then be completed by noon tomorrow, making room for members of the Senate. Since its introduction, first to the committee and then to the conference, in August, the General has worked very well. Likewise, the General served very well in spring. At that time, a lot of cases were taken care of. Then, at the beginning of the council in August, several major issues were recommended. These issues are included in the committee. We know from experience that it is often so, e.g. In the fall of the year, when the council is being initiated, the discussion will cause a slight collapse some time after the larger issues have been started, then the major work of members of Congress will begin. This was what the president wanted to explain to you about the state of the council today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u20	A respectable president. I don't like willingness, and I don't think it's too much to pursue that society's institutions work out of honesty, love, and respect for the common people. Sadly, there are constantly reports of the opposite. During the days, the Ministry turned to a decision where Icelandic citizens were forbidden to marry their beloved, where an institution chose not to accept official documents from a distant land. Despair regularly suffers the shame of proving that their lasting disability did not disappear miraculously. Each year, thousands of reformers are in debt to the system, where public calculators did not prove to be growing. A debt that is drawn from shameful reliefs that are far under the proposed treatment guidelines. The authorities have already intercepted the phone of members of Congress, and we are going to have a special agency to limit the names of the Icelandic citizens. There's something contrary to all this, Mr. President. After her head, her limbs dance. In last night's discussion of a proposal for national elections in order to complete memberal affairs at the European Union, a senator claimed that his party had never promised such a vote for the 2013 elections, despite countless examples of this exact promise from the leading of the public field and, indeed, from the Council itself. V.E.G. The minister of finance, the head of the Independence Party, likened the government to a nursery but then dragged the government into a country after a loud protest and admitted that it was rude to compare national game schools to the government. During the days, the head of the advance party declared that the government's opposition would have to promise not to get involved, but this same senator has hardly been seen here in the house, and as the day's program shows, nothing is seen in the important issues that stand in the way of an election. A labour agreement, which is being pushed through the council, is made without any access to consumers or consideration for competitive or environmental issues. Hv. The head of the trade committee calls it a simple agreement that the contracts will be bound, not to ten, but to three. Is there only hope that respect for the World Council and the central institutions of society is at freezing targets? [[The president calls.]] Our responsibility is no joke. A general Assembly is elected by the Icelandic public. This is a member of the Parliament for the President of the United States of Iceland. The purpose can only be one: service to the common people. I don't think it's arrogant to expect us to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u21	A respectable president. Of course, the situation in the council is conditional because it has been in our time that this would be done in this way. For a long time, the government, the board of directors, has been in the palm of the hall to prepare their affairs for the council so that all of this would resolve normally. Of course, it has been found that it is the same carelessness as the releases in those areas, as in all that this government has taken over. There's nothing ready, therefore there's a void in the council. What we're going to be witnesses here are first and last messages between the Prime Minister of the Mission and the Independence Party. It is clear that the fishing trip planned by the government groups for those days of the Council at the end of the summer is long over. There's a reason to dump water on the fire and call out for the dogs. There's nothing more to fish on this tour. That's it. That's it. It would have been natural for the board of directors to have listened to the government opposition last spring, who said it had to be an election immediately. They said there were so many big things to be done first. Where are they? The only mementos we've received from the head of the Agency is that it is important not to allow the government to get in the Senate business. Certainly, he will not be told that he is involved in the matter of Congress. He doesn't show up here in the house, he's not on any Senate committee, and he's on the public salary to try to protect his own position in his own party, which has become somewhat different. It would be most successful for us to enter the election, break a council and say, "Now we're going to vote, we're going to stop this nonsense. " The big things that wait for payment are of that nature, e.g. Convention agreements, it is perfectly normal to present their affairs to the voters of the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why don't people want to do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-08-24-139.u22	A respectable president. I'm going to come up here as a member of the Parliament, and I'm going to give a little extra time for the members of the administration because simply the committees have many big and important issues, which both the Ministers and the administrative body would like to be completed. During the days since the beginning of a council in August, it has been recommended that the issues presented in spring would be spoken, that would be involved in decommissioning the practice, a case involving the special policy of the direct contact with the bills of the highest standards. Ministers of society and housing then delivered, matters that were at least agreed between the administrations. There is also a financial and business bill on growth and insurance. True, these matters appear on the autumn days of this council, have to be discussed, and then work there. In order for everything to be fair, these are the major issues. The spring was announced when the spring council was taken care of to arrive in the fall. But we know the procedure here, that it is recommended; it is sent for review; and then it comes into operation. Other issues are being developed in committees. Maybe we can say they're late for the committees to come in here. I agree with those who have spoken that it is a peculiar situation on Wednesday, August 24, that the Senate is the sole subject for discussion. It's very peculiar and would have been better if things were different. But if all fairness is observed, members of Congress, whether governments or government opposition, know that there are issues in committees that are important to the whole nation regardless of political divisions. [[The president calls.]]
