ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u1	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Health Ministers, Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u2	Mr. President. A month ago, I asked the highest. Environment Minister on what may be most proud of the issues involved in this council, which is the validation of the Paris Convention. V.E.G. The secretary of the environment assured me that the matter was being worked hard. It is probable that the case is at the table of both ministers, the Supreme Minister. Secretary of the state and the secretary of the environment. But the issue is that Iceland validates the Paris Treaty on the goals we have considered. It has been reported that we will follow Norway and intend to complete the validation of this month, i.e. June. This means that the covenant will gain the value of international law, i.e. When a number of countries have completed its validation, the covenant will gain the value of international law, which is of utmost importance for us to pursue these goals so that we can be successful, for we are adamant at the time of this grand task. Actually, it's my opinion that there's no bigger issue in international politics at this time than the climate crisis. Therefore, this case should be at the top of the table. Secretary of state. I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: How's your work on validation? It has been pointed out that it calls for translation work and a review of Icelandic law frames. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Isn't this at the top of the two ministers? May we not expect that before the council goes home in the fall, we will complete the validation? In view of the fact that the Norwegians we've been following in this case both in terms of the aims for the Paris themselves and now in terms of validation, would intend to do this in June would be preferable that we were not far behind. I'm gonna mention it here because I'm afraid that the matter may otherwise be delayed and that it must not be, and Iceland must do nothing but be on the lead in these matters. This is a huge case in which we can set an important example. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Foreign Minister: What can it tell us about the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Work is in full swing at the Ministry to complete this job, and I firmly assume that it will be possible to complete the case in August. There's a very good teamwork between both advisers. You're right. A senator says, of course, Iceland wants to be on the lead in this important agreement, and we're giving a great deal of pride in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u4	Mr. President. The highest answer. A minister was short, yet very decisive and clear. I'm glad to hear it, and I'm glad it's the best. A minister here says that she is expecting this matter to come to the council in August. I think it would be such a waste that we could finish it. On that occasion, I would like to say that it is of utmost importance that the Council is an active part of the case, as was the case in the climate conference itself. The next step will have to be completed so that real measures will be carried out. But the validation is important, so thank you very much. Minister for the answers and look forward to seeing a series of validation of the EEA Convention in August.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u5	A respectable president. I insist that there will be a very good partnership with the council. This is a very important matter. A senator points out. It's a big deal for us to finish this as soon as possible and send a clear message about where we are in this category. Of course, we look to what Norway does.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u6	A respectable president. Once again, there is quite a debate in society about how to deal with the refugees and others who come here in need in search of cover. Unfortunately, the discussion is not new, and there is no indication that it is on its way out except perhaps if, in my opinion, very foolish faults are fixed in the current law. I hope some of the laws will be passed on the bill to which we vote later on 2rd. In this category of languages, it is somehow so that each one points to the other. I've often said that there is no harm in the Foreign Institute, that the law is to blame, that the law is corrupt. I'm of that opinion, and I'd like to say that they will remain defective after the bill we're paying here votes for afterwards will be legal. But I'm becoming increasingly aware that there are more things that are defective than laws, that is, how institutions such as Foreign Institutes work. A foreign agency points to a judicial committee of foreigners. A member committee of foreigners points to the Foreign Institute and it's in something political, I'm not going to say a void, but some kind of fog. I have felt that there is a lack of a clear political position about using the legal sources to improve the case of the clients of the U.S.A. However, it seems that all available sources are new to push people away from the process. I'd like to ask the highest. In each case, whether the tendency to push people out of the process is more or less than simply to take these matters for physical treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u7	V.E.G. President. Like what? In recent months, a senator knows that the language group of foreigners has grown tremendously and rapidly. In a few months, compared with what we knew in the past, the matter of shelterers has taken on a completely different picture. In this environment, the minister of foreigners is under a high obligation to look to all judicial regulations, making sure that we enforce the laws given here always in mind that the general will of the Council was clear that a minister should be out of proportion when it comes to specific matters and that the general situation is settled. To this end, there has been significant improvements in foreigners recently in the pressures and atmosphere we know. We've been reviewing the rules of the Ministry. We have also been considering why rules have not been placed on the basis of existing laws that could be done, i.e. We've tried to think of ourselves as achieving our goal to finish things quickly, so that people don't have to stay here for a long time, waiting for the outcome, what they want. As a World of Congress knows, laws have also been made changes in the law itself, as they are now open and treated by the council. I maintain that the institutions that deal with these important issues will follow the laws given here. I don't agree with that. A senator says that people have opinions that are different from the rest of them. I think they're trying to look at things objectively and to put forth great effort to deal well with them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u8	A respectable president. I've tried to believe that the best way to get people from the Foreign Institute is to do well. I'm trying as hard as I can to believe it. However, I no longer have words that allow the law to offer interpretations. There are things in the current law, such as fairness and the like. It appears that there are over and over again sources of law to look at fairer, rich, or non - fairness are not used to allow people, e.g. to be in the country during its application for treatment. That happens again and again. Likewise, at some point you have to recognize that there is not always simple, direct interpretation of existing laws. That is also the attitude of the system. These matters are called for political guidance everywhere. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think it's so important that it comes out and is not a question about whether we're going to open the land or shut it down completely, but simply to be reasonable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u9	A respectable president. There is no doubt that in this group of languages, as well as in all others, political guidance is important, but it must be on the basis of law. This is not the case like that of others, and we can overstep it on any matter we wish, that political views should be governed by law. I think there'd be a considerable change if you could count it in this room. I don't think that's what I'm doing, and that will never be possible to get past me. I think that's the same, and I think I've said it many times in this room, that no discussion has been made when it comes to this group. We will see in the months, years, and months that we will have to open laws about foreigners more often, we need to change the rules more frequently, we need to sharpen our course so that it is easier for the institutions on these matters to do their work so that we can trust that there are men working faithfully, because that is the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u10	A respectable president. There are two news that have recently caught my attention. A report at the issue of March 8 relates that a U.S. commission directed by the United Nations to the United States government that immediate measures to increase the number of women within the police, the Supreme Court, and the location of ambassadors to the United States. I remember an ex-fiancée. The minister of foreign affairs appointed four men in the office of ambassadors when he first appointed ambassadors of office. This caught my attention, and I hope that people are starting to turn their backs on the magazine as far as it goes. We know the state of the Supreme Court, and it's also in the police department. Another report of the same injury is from mlblís, which speaks of law enforcement at the European football tournament this summer. The eight officers are all males. A special unit is not required or a police officer is to carry a weapon, and in reality it is completely incomprehensible why women are not invited to participate. I can't believe that no policewoman can take part in this assignment. I have my information on a story in the morning and the discussion that has been followed. I think this is a good thing because it also explains the amount of pay between the sexes if the men are sent on a job like this and receive the daily money in return. The report says that all the police are coming from the state police chief and that since police officers have not been able to get women from the State Marshal's office, they have been looking for men who are used to international police work and who are accustomed to working abroad. I allow myself to state that there are police women who would have been willing and qualified to take this assignment. I want to know what the ultimate thing is. There is a minister in this case, both in the case of the police and in the demand that there be a rapid increase in the number of women in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u11	V.E.G. President. I was as surprised as it was. A member of this group was to be men only. It was my understanding that I was looking for men and women alike, and I think it was the thought. I didn't have an idea for myself to have this result, so I was completely surprised. This is a decision made by the Marshal. The Ministry had nothing to do with her, but I reiterate what I've said here that my imagination will fail when it comes to this. Then I want to say in general that we've been trying to increase the number of women in the police department. The increase in women has been observed by the police in the capital area. Of course, we have a long way off in this area. It's been a men's class over the years. With the Supreme Court, I think I answered a question from what? paritaprevir As we discussed the rules and possibilities of judges' orders and their orders in the winter, Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's trouble was about the same subject. We see that the number of women in the class of judges is slowly increasing. After reviewing the district courts, it is clear that there is an increase in women. Now, the General has approved a law on the changes to the court order where there will be a full interjugation in the country. I think that any minister in this chair sits in the months to come and loses money will see that there is a great deal of importance to this view.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u12	A respectable president. I appreciate your answer. Minister. I'm very grateful to hear a minister's opinion on this matter. Of course, a minister may intervene in this matter, send a clear signal that this is unacceptable, or is it entirely under the hands of a state police officer? I think this is a matter of probing and trying to change this decision. It would send them a clear message that we would not accept this kind of thing in 2016. I say again that I love to hear such decisive stand on the matter. Just this week we saw a news report from Station 2 where the sports reporters, a whole group of them, were all male and no one there in this group or photographer or the one who put the ad out seemed to think it was completely out of the cow. Your hands are falling, and I worry that we are actually sending out messages to girls and boys that men are put above their heads in this society. It's not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u13	A respectable president. I have expressed my opinion in this chair and will promote the opinion of the State Marshal that this is in harmony with the picture as it is. A senator recently mentioned sports reporters. I sometimes feel like we're talking about things that I think should be so completely self-informed that we shouldn't have to stand here and talk about them. That's kind of what I think seems crazy about all this, that I'm standing here and drawing attention to the fact that things should be in other ways, so it's at least In my own soul it's totally incomprehensible that we need to discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u14	V.E.G. President. Once again, I am forced to come here to the General's symposium to speak to the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance about two of my inquiries, on one hand for a written answer to the sale of the National Bank's ownership of pay since February - a complete answer to that written inquiry was received. Lately, there was an oral answer to that question. The talk presented the highest. The secretary of finance promised a report to the General, followed by a discussion about this mysterious sale of the bank at Borg. Why am I here to ask, How is the report? And the discussion, when is it coming? I don't need to state, a respectable president, the Constitution officer of our rights to ask questions and Ministers to answer them. It's always getting more serious and serious to me. In the oral answer, the highest. Secretary of finance that he did not recognize his high value assessment of a quarter of a quarter to 26 billion dollars. and would not have seen it. The morning paper showed that if this is true, those who bought these 31.2% would profit by the short time and the Lands Bank, a wealth of 6 to 8.5 billion dollars, in this brief period, would benefit by the work of KPMG. In addition, for the first time in a previous year, money was paid for and also in a recent meeting. So those who bought this 31.2% of the share received 1 billion in interest, or half of the price. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance, distinguished president, when is the report due? [[The president calls.]] When will the discussion take place? I'm still asking, "What's the top information?" Secretary of finance for the respect of the company at the time of the sale? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u15	A respectable president. It is more than likely to give answers to the questions that are addressed to me on this matter. I have always tried to deal with them as soon as possible. There is a written answer as a matter of course. A senator was not satisfied with all aspects. For this reason, I have requested that there be an even more detailed understanding of the answers, which is the case with the job. I have declared that there is probably a special report on it when I have received that information forever. However, as we may expect to be aware, it is up to the Bank Office to respond to that information at the Ministry. We have also discussed these matters in a special way, since I have described my views. You know, about the price assessment as a boy. A senator would be very interesting to see if he has it. I've never seen this price assessment. All I've said about it is that I don't know that it's official, so I can't really say anything about it. It may even have been written about the existence, written about it in the morning paper, but I don't know about it. I am much less willing to feel that way. But let us bear in mind, and in the discussion, let's keep in mind that the state fund, through its possession in Iceland bank, has an indirect majority of property in Borg and is likely to benefit if the value of the company is more than previously thought. It has been so many times on my part that I had chosen that the whole process would have been more open, more transparent, and it seems to me that the bank has come to that same opinion. By doing so, the interests of the State would have been better paid, better followed by the tenants'policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u16	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. It's quite clear that all the rules were broken in this process, all of them. I appreciate the fact that a report will be compiled and it will be discussed here, and I hope it will be soon. It will be assumed that it will be no later than when a council meets, if not before. But I noticed, in this discussion about the valuable food - which is short and sweet, so that the value of the company since its sale has increased by four times over this short period of time - to the highest level. The minister of finance said that he was not aware of the official worthiness of this estimate. Yes, it may not have been, but the morning paper claims it was produced by KPMG, the prestigious accounting firm, and the existence of it. I've told you before, most respected president, that it was the newest valuable note. I have concluded that at the time of the sales, there was a food of value. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about, getting it informed. As an example of the seriousness, a respected president, it is that the Bank Office wrote a letter to the bank or stated that the matter was serious and even demanded that the bank manager be removed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This shows the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u17	A respectable president. We agree that the matter is serious. That is why it has been my motive for writing to the Bank Office, from the Bank office to the National Bank, for a discussion within the bank board, for a discussion at the bank's main meeting, related to changes in the government of the bank, etc. I will continue to do my utmost to get everything ahead, get everything on the table, bring it here for discussion, so that failures of this class will not recur, and I have placed great emphasis on the Council of Banks that all appropriate measures are taken to prevent recurrence.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u18	A respectable president. I want to talk to the highest. Social Ministers on matters that concern me and others considerably. Who would have believed that during the 100th anniversary of the Icelandic labor movement, slavery and human trafficking along with the subsidiary of a job market were real and growing problems in Icelandic society? Yet, that is true. This mansal in Iceland has various films, ranging from criminal sexual abuses, a debt of debt through the legal marriage and the hard work of employees, which come here as a full - time home help. This has been reported in expert reports, and this has been reported in individual news reports. In Iceland, employment sales have become more prominent in recent losses, such as recent reports confirmed, e.g. From Viczard to the Valley of Moriscos. A recent report by the U.S. State Department of State for Human Rights claims, among other things, that forced marriages in Iceland and that people are forced into sexual slavery and that they are enslaved to work in massage rooms, restaurants, construction industry, fish industry, and as a whole. If this social ill takes root permanently in this area, it can have devastating changes in our society and in things that involve basic human rights. That's why I want to talk to the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. Has her ministry done anything, or does it intend to act on this matter? If so, what can be done and what action will the Ministry intend to take? Directors of the Constitution have now proposed to submit to Social Services School, which is directly on their curriculum to inform people of the work hall characteristics of the labour market. [[The president calls.]] Is this government policy, and what's the Ministry's position on the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u19	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his inquiry. I agree with what the senator says here, and her coworker had also asked earlier this week about the news that has just been coming up in the past, the observations referred to, that there is a serious problem with the man trader. Hv. A senator asks what I intend to do or what I have done. I've requested more information about this survey, have requested that my employees who have access to the traders, collaborators, and colleagues discuss this information with them. There, unions are key partners, along with the Labour Office, the Work Programme, and the head of the state tax. It's been some time since these members, or their representatives, joined together for increased work ethics and have provided indications to the police if necessary. The news coverage of the issues that have developed shows results in this cooperation. I also said that I don't support this proposal, and I haven't suggested that Social Services School be laid down myself. However, I have made it very clear to the labor leaders that if there is anything more that I or my institutions can do, it will be done. I also believe that following this information, when we have considered them, that there is a reason why I and the Minister of State, who is responsible for a man-salt procedure, will review whether it is correct, because it was a certain time, a new plan will be proposed, based on past experiences. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is the minister of those who are responsible for what would then suggest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u20	A respectable president. It is good to know that the Ministry of Social Affairs does not support the laying down of the Social Ministry School, as the two directors in the management team have suggested. This does not indicate that there is a single mentality in the management team on the basis of how to take into account the preventive role involved in education and enlightenment of these matters, but all experts agree that education is simply a key factor in identifying the characteristics of a working room and in the field, in the workplace. Then you might ask directly - since this is part of the study of Social Services School and the minister agrees that this school is a part of the study, including the school. in this regard - whether the minister intends to strengthen that school or not, putting forth effort to strengthen it rather than cut back on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u21	A respectable president. In addition to my previous answer, I would like to know that we have been preparing, in cooperation with the labor movement, a special declaration of cooperation in which we stress the importance of collective agreements and the struggle against social subsidies. In particular, these include volunteer work and a variety of studies that have been being conducted better. One thing I have there is whether it is right to start a job making a clear frame of law around it. I have tried to learn how this has been done in other parts of the North countries, where there does not seem to be any explanation for voluntary work or training; that is one of the things to consider. Since then, we have been supporting our education, and it has certainly proved to be effective. [[The president calls.]] The task is to come up because it has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u22	V.E.G. President. By approval of this bill, we are laying the groundwork of a new U.S. tenants spray system, a system that we have not been able to compare since the construction of the union system was sadly reduced by the end of the last century. It is our assessment in the United States that this is an enormously important issue, although it requires more money to build more apartments than we rejoice that there is a law and solidarity to meet what will hopefully contribute to the success of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u23	A respectable president. All I want to do is to use this opportunity and thank the welfare committee, the head of the case, Lára Arnardóttir, and for the lead at any given moment. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Inggadóttir has shown in the Commission on the construction of the premises. There's an amazing number of people involved in this case, and I think there's a reason why we also see that there are 53 senators who say yes. The situation presented here clearly shows that we are indeed going to pay more attention to the families needing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u24	A respectable president. Like others, I like to be glad that this bill has reached its destination. We're voting on a 1 st. where you are changing the name of the bill. At first, it was a bill for a generalized apartment law. The committee turned it into a bill for a general social law. Then they want to change it again. I respect that opinion, but I'm against it, and I'm going to sit next to a vote. Other than that, I support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u25	President. I'm going to explain my position on the whole bill. I think it's extremely important that we have come to this place, there's been a lot of pressure in society, and there's a real need for a social setting here. I think it's really amazing that the workers' farm system has been shut down, and then all these years go by, and now we're dealing with a problem that's been blown up for a long time. Therefore, it is important to remember that when such a system changes are made, it may take some time to build a new system. Hence, when members of Congress decide to make major changes, it is very important that they keep this in mind. I'm glad this bill is becoming a reality, and I want to compliment the committee and the Supreme Court. Minister for completing this case at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u26	A respectable president. I'm in the same area as what I'm doing. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir. This is a vote for the title of the bill, whether it should be a general apartment or a general social apartment. The committee had already learned that the word should be a regular social apartment, but now she is fighting it and drawing it back and suggesting that the term be made a public apartment, even though it is not a general apartment, but a social apartment because the rented form is a social apartment. As an Icelandic scholar, I disagree completely, for the Allied takes the power to turn a language into a Icelandic language to pursue political tribunals. That's why I'm against the changed name of the bill, and I can't do anything more than my colleague and the Icelandic proctologist. paritaprevir Ragnheiður, daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, supports the arrangement. We're not involved in this nonsense, but, of course, I support the bill in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u27	A respectable president. The bill that is about to become a law that improves a very urgent need, but we would have wanted to see it perform much earlier. We welcome the solidarity of the committee, especially of which I would like to commend. paritaprevir Sigríður Iggi Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for successfully moving the matter to the scene of the committee and the highest. Minister for its contribution here. What a milestone that the bill is about to become a reality, and how important that is! We have faced tragic conditions in the housing of those in the lowest income group, since the labor - building system was laid down, and this is a crucial step that hopefully will be remembered for a long time as a positive step in housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u28	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to know that this bill is becoming a law. It is becoming a law because a welfare committee has worked a huge amount of work in winter to correct the situation and almost rebuild it by means of extensive changes to both the 2nd and 3rd districts. In good peace and solidarity. This was needed because, as it turned out, the bill was on a significant scale. Early in the work of the Committee, it became evident that certain major executives in this field had not trusted to operate under the laws that would have been passed if the bill had passed through. This, I believe, is a reason to state and commend the General Assembly who has passed the test in this difficult matter and has done so with great respect. In great unity, the welfare committee has successfully concluded the matter with my judgment. There's a lot to go around. Minister of Social Affairs and the Supreme Minister. The government is grateful that Iceland is now an economic and reasonable government opposition that will help us to do well. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u29	President. I want to reiterate and explain why I find it strange that we call the bill as a public apartment instead of a public apartment. There is no shame in using that word. It's the right word for what the bill should do. I'd like to say something, too. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Now I've been in a position of government for the rest of my life at the General. I have to say, the work the government has put into these affairs of the government has been very good. It has been a great cooperation between smaller parts and more parts in important and big matters. I think it's all right to keep it up. It is also important to commend others. Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Sigríður Inglefiu Ingadóttir, because she's been holding this and some very big things and important things. We must not forget that the council can function well, and especially is it important that we stick together to important national matters in relation to those most in need of our attention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u30	V.E.G. President. I come up here as the spokesman for the case to thank you. The welfare committee for all the tremendous amount of work she has done in this case in 28 cases. The welfare committee. This is a very important step in the building of rented apartments. This is one of the largest building projects ever built in a building. It is a joy to say that many rural communities have already made contact and have shown interest in this work. I'd like to thank the head of the case. For all the well - being committees, again and again, the best solidarity and solidarity. Social and housing minister, I sincerely wish to congratulate you on this large phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u31	A respectable president. Here at last, as a generalisation bill is becoming a law of general apartments, I would like to thank you very much for our cooperation with the council. I also want to use this opportunity to thank all those who have come to work and prepare the case before it entered the council. That's where I'd like to first mention the labor movement. It has been of enormous importance, the work and the pressure applied to the labor movement. [[Up front.]] Of course, my assistant also owns a large number of others. I'd also like to mention the European Union, a good partnership with the relationship has been very important. These include the Commission of the Union. When a big deal becomes reality, as it is happening here today, it's never that it's the only one to credit it. We all know who's sitting here at the council. It's a very big deal, it's very important to the future, and I wish all of us who are sitting here and the whole nation to be happy about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u32	A respectable president. We're here to vote for clearance for a new Western island. That has been a good discussion, both in the middle of the day. Legal committees, as well as members of a body hall and various members of the community. However, much of the discussion has dealt with other factors, what has to do with the land - to - land crew, but despite the goodness of this case, it will not solve the problem of land landings. That's different and special. I have felt that there is something missing about these matters that I have found to be a matter of discussion that is very important in all the transport systems that are in security. We should remember that the ship we now use is 26 years old and does not meet the security standards we do and are made for passengers in the parts of the world we would like to compare with. I am glad that there is good solid solidarity in this situation. The body of elders to complete this case and to hope that it will be reached by a solid agreement in a chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u33	Mr. President. I'm going to support this bill for having to be authorized to make a new Western Islands vector, and some would say, "Even if it had been before." It is important to do everything possible to ensure the best transportation to the Western Islands, but this is hopefully part of dealing with them, and much more is needed, as we know. Nonetheless, it is long ago that it would be time to renew the war planet, which was falsely said to have been discussed yesterday at 26 years of age. If my memory is not betraying, it's come into play in 1992 and it's done well. It is true that these sales are said to be different, for sometimes it was foretold for him. But he is a child of his time and time for reinvestment, and hopefully he will succeed with new ships and initiatives in the land of the sea to fulfill the dream that the journeys of the year around us, or that, at least, will be better off to the Western Islands. There is an enormous interest in the islands and, of course, for all the people of the country, that this transport is in order.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u34	A respectable president. I'm glad we're taking this case for a vote, and I'm glad we're giving you clearance to a new Western island. There has been a long period of time before such processes would have to become reality, and now we will set off that road. As mentioned in the discussion and in the yesterday's discussion, the problems of the land crew are not solved, and we on a transport committee have decided together to take this case for further consideration and remember that as soon as a meeting is held in the following autumn, this will be covered thoroughly. Nevertheless, this new process will ease matters and hopefully make more trips possible between the island and the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u35	V.E.G. President. I support the bill here on the construction of a new General and I really hope that the design was successful. I'm gonna back up this whole thing. Because it was done at 1st. The case, already the highest. I was told by a secretary of finance that if the situation in which I feel as well as certain happens, the invitation would be too expensive and would be removed, and the ferry would be based on the usual means of government funds, it wouldn't be done by cutting off the other funds set out in Iceland. The present poor transport program, which is a transport plan for little or nothing, and Iceland record of doing almost nothing, cannot stand the fact that money will be transferred there. But the answer was clear. The secretary of finance that if the private campaign is too expensive, new funds will be made to finance the standard government's pay on the ferry. [[The president calls.]] And that's my support, that's a basis for my consent.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u36	A respectable president. I'm going to support this matter and say like others: " Even if it had been before. ' You see, it has taken quite absurdly long to make that suggestion and make that decision. It is amazing that three years later, after three years of ruling, those who criticized a delay in the last terms in these matters will have the case in exactly the same place as when they took over. Okay, good, supporting this as it is right now, but it's ridiculous that such a big matter, of this magnitude, should not be discussed in the Senate Transport Committee. What kind of work is that? That is not even a review from the Transport Committee. Since the members of the majority of the committee are preconceived perfectly, it is only natural that when the committee meets at the end of the summer, this arrangement will be thoroughly reviewed and this course will be set forward to the future as it should.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u37	V.E.G. President. Of course, I support this case. What a happy day it is that we have come to this place! We, of course, have been thrilled to see this milestone come to a home. This will be a major means of transportation to the Eyjans as well as to all Icelanders and will benefit from all the tourists who, of course, will make their way to the island. Happy birthday today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u38	A respectable president. Despite six years ago, the harbor has not yet been built. It is closed for five months a year, 100 to 120 days, and a new ferry will not solve the problem, unfortunately. It is necessary to build a new vessel for the Western eyes and for transport between land and Eyjan, but it is also necessary to take into account the ability of the harbor to accept the ship as most months of the year. As is the case today, the harbor is likely to be more and less closed for 100 days a year, and it takes a different ferry that has been designed to take them to the island. They will be difficult for anyone who will travel with a new ship, when he picks up a hundred feet [3 m]; telling us that the ship will be very difficult for a long journey, in the village. That's why I'm going to sit next to this desk.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u39	Mr. President. I welcome this modern - day step in order to improve transportation to the Western Islands. It's a long time, and I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u40	A respectable president. I'll be sitting by this vote. I don't want to stand in the way of this case, but I've thought we'd have to take a bigger ferry, bigger ship that's more convenient for sailing to the village during the roughest winter of the winter without being taken to the Pacific. It is quite clear that the land island has not gone to full sea, so choosing a bigger ship would have been a better option. It says all that has to be said that a financial committee to determine this release in the Committee of the Fundament Committee, which provides this warrant, feels that it is more likely to have a 24 - year - old ship for backup if this ship is not going to turn out well. We'll have a 24-year-old ship as a backup if this five billion investments don't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u41	A respectable president. This bill alters various laws. The most important is the law that lowers the insurance bill by half a percent from July 1, where on a yearly basis we are about 30 percent. Seven billion tax reductions for industry in the country resulting from earlier declines. How happy we are that we have been in a position to take the big steps! In part, and in view of the coming years, the reduction was so financial and the matter suggested that the change came from a financial and business committee regarding marital balance. There are conflicting views on how to view this matter, depending on whether a husband and wife view each other as taxpayers or as individuals. In general, we have watched married couples as joint taxpayers, e.g. with overwhelming personality discounts. [[The president calls.]] But I notice that the committee wants to keep the change that was made toward the end of the last year. [[The president calls.]] I say in my own dues and in view of the government's terms that it is probably more likely to be revealed in the fall whether this arrangement is needed to finance other changes in the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u42	A respectable president. In the United States, we have long stressed the reduction of insurance fees as the most important project we should contribute to tax reductions, so we will vote with the bill. We will vote against the suggestion of the greater part of the committee to abandon the funding by changing the same tax card between husband and wife. It is very strange to see the administrative sector ready to make changes in the bill from the secretary of finance that includes lowering the tax burden of the best of individuals of 3.6 billion. The money could be used for a number of national cleaning projects. I'll remind you, for example. According to the government, only 1,500 million of the 2,500 million that it has already promised to have a social setting built up. It would be so common for so many to make use of this money elsewhere and with practical wisdom but with reduced taxation to those who spend most of their money between their hands. So we will vote against that proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u43	Mr. President. That's what I'm talking about. The economic and business committee has proposed to drop from the change to the highest level. A financial and economic minister suggested a tax assessment, which, first of all, means that 3 billion do not return to a state fund equal to the amount to be paid and that this change will benefit mainly according to the financial and economic notes of the country's most successful homes. I have to say, I feel responsible for the majority of the Committee to contribute this change. Therefore, we will be members of the left movement to counter this change in the greater part and sit by the rest of the case, for while we support the reduction of the insurance fee, we feel that it is a great responsibility to let the plans simply upset them with this proposal. That's why we'll vote against her when this is the case. We don't think this is a natural priority for government money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u44	A respectable president. In the short future, we have long expressed our surprise that the insurance price has not been dropped. Unemployment is much less now than it was at the highest level and when it needed to raise the insurance bill. It would have been necessary to reduce unemployment as a result of financing such significant features, limited work projects. It has been recent in the United States to misuse the insurance budget as an ordinary income stock. That's not good. But here it is, and we support it. It's always fun on the Economic and Business Committee. There are often fun transpolitic conflicts. In the short future, we support and support the adjustment proposal that allows us to maintain a balance as a principle and that a home with the same income should be taxed in the same way. Synchronization is a principle in our system. We feel that this should also be true in this case, and we do not buy the reasons why there is no need for married couples in this area to have a similar view.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u45	President. I support this bill as it came from the highest level. Secretary of finance. I'm glad there's a down insurance bill. I think it should've gone down sooner. I think it can turn down more. It is even higher now than it was when it began to increase in the economic breakdown. That's when a lot of money went into a unemployment insurance store. Now a lot of that cash comes into the box. I'm opposed to the new proposal made by the majority to the Minister's bill to end a couple's match, that was his suggestion. I'm gonna back him up in it, so I'm gonna vote against the rest of the change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u46	A respectable president. I welcome this change and reduction of insurance fees, though perhaps earlier, I can totally agree with that. Also, I rejoice with the Commission's proposal for the common taxation. I may not allow myself to say this, but I strongly suspect that if we try to sort it out by class, this alone will be most useful for sailors. So I rejoice at the message we received from this hall when the seaman's discount was taken off, though it is a step in the right direction, and their interests are in part the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u47	A respectable president. It is interesting to see the United States and the left greens in the hard race under the perspective they themselves put when they mixed the income tax system in 2009, thus allowing them to promote and encourage middle - income homes to use lower income tax points, lost parts, to the higher tax points. They now claim that it is justified to spend more than 8 billion in homes with household income. K. and discriminate them against other homes who have as much household income as they can in the interest of insurance. I believe we have a new slogan for these groups in the next campaign. Here, the tax system should be priorized and used in order to give this home a reduction in insurance costs. I consider it a strange priorities for these left groups, and secondly, that this operation involves middle - income families and homes in the country and equalities between them. [[Take it up to the Minister's office.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u48	V.E.G. President. I support the suggestion here regarding the reduction of insurance costs, but I said to 1st. The point that I thought it was strange. A financial minister was going to finance a reduction in insurance bills by replacing a couple with a taxation. That's all. They were reducing the insurance fee to a company and increasing the tax burden on middle earners instead. I would like to propose to the greater part of the Committee that this article should depart. I support it, and I think it's a good way to get into the middle business, and I think it's really good for sailors for various reasons. What is fundamental in this and I find worthy of respect is the independence of a committee that has been increasing in this change of government bill. But I noticed yesterday's highest. The prime minister had much to say about this, saying that this would not go through the same way. Then I also hear a minister of finance talking about the hole formed. That's right. You could use that money for a few other things in the welfare service, that's exactly right, but what does the more important thing want in this matter? [[The president calls.]] What will he do? I know what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u49	Mr. President. Of course, it is a good thing that the government will finally begin to cut down the insurance fee so much because it did not make the first three years of the vote. Rather, it moved large companies to the state of the insurance fee, instead of letting it reduce to some extent to the decrease in unemployment rate as everyone had expected. However, another is a lot of concern when it comes to cutting down the insurance fee, that is, the ill - manneredness of birth ordinary funds in the history of that government. She cleaned up and halved his income or his share in insurance money two years ago. It is clear that no compensation can be made in the maternity room unless income stock is restored. There's a lot of headache that as soon as after experiences don't deal with the general reduction of the entire insurance bill. I agree with what the secretary of finance suggested to eliminate the corresponding taxation in connection with the changed production of the steps, and I find it true that it is best to say oddly that even women come up here and talk as if they do not have a single idea of what this naturally means. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u50	A respectable president. This is a law where the insurance bill is dropped. Of course, I think it is very important to keep it in order to make room for a cut-off of insurance, since unemployment has been reduced, when unemployment went up, and unemployment has long since gone down to an entirely different size. There's no room to put down insurance, there's no other way. Besides, I think it's very important to make a decision, too, like a big one. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask came in here, that the reduction in the insurance bill is not to affect the plan of adding to the stock of birth, raising the roof there, and extending the improvement period, and in fact, it was strange that the bill about it did not come up, because I thought that the Supreme Court. A social minister would have proclaimed such a bill earlier. The birthday stock has been ignominious. I would like to justify the review of the majority of the committee's opinion that this reduction in insurance would not affect the proposed plans for changes in the feeding holiday reserves for benefits to reform recipients. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u51	Mr. President. I vote against this, among other things out of gender motives, but also on the income of state funds and the state financial programme, which is now being discussed in the budget board. It's one of its reasons, and it's all set out and that plan is out. I think it's right here to say that once this is done, the plan has to be adopted. This makes it difficult for the majority of the committee and us on a budgetary committee to complete a financial budget that would last for the first week in June.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u52	A respectable president. It's interesting to see the highest. The secretary of finance is not on his own bill. The day before yesterday, it was at the top. Prime Minister, in response to my request for this in this room, this proposal would not go through the same way. Two days later, she seems to be going through. It's a lawsuit against the government sector. It is of great concern that humans produce suggestions that are not financed and that do not meet the criteria for a national financial agenda. It must be thought of, but most of all, it shows that the greater part of the government continues to earn its own credit for the government of rich people. It is evident from this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u53	A respectable president. I, a spokesman for freedom, rejoice to see a body of council members agree here that the tax-free trades are made more clear that they can sell alcohol, including privates, as long as the store is restricted to customs. But that's how the committee is made, and it's guaranteed here, so I rejoice. On the other hand, according to a legal explanation, I understand this matter - that we are only letting the State's Alcohol and tobacco trade sell alcohol at the Freest, where it is clear in the alcohol law. But I'd also like to add at the end that I think it's a little funny that it's no problem to change this if it's just a matter of business.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u54	V.E.G. President. This is about selling tollovita at the Free Harbor at Keflavík and recording a network of units. Isavia, who knows this best, has made serious comments to the exports there is and believes that this is cutting down the tollovata that tourists are allowed to buy in the Free Sea of Alcoholic Alcoholism. I'm sorry that the committee hasn't called up a representative of Istavia, and they get to explain this. I can't believe we're going to cut this quota as far as I'm concerned. A respectable president. In view of the fact that Istavia has the highest knowledge of this, it is assumed that the Isvia State's income will increase, and this change will be questioned. Therefore, I would like to encourage the committee to bring together a meeting, call out the representatives of Istavia, and see if their viewpoints are not good and have good reason to consider them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u55	A respectable president. Here we pay a vote for a bill that includes some adjustment to basic school law. The main focus of the bill is to sharpen the law of an independent elementary school and to explain the framework of their activities in terms of financial matters and the rights of those enjoyed in the ministry. Then the bill includes suggestions on changing the rules of basic school law on administrative matters and the cooperation of rural society in elementary school, and the use of term use is changed where the word expert services are replaced for school services. Finally, the bill contains significant changes in the legalization of the activities of a so - called vacation home, which is the law that I believe is the greatest progressive step in the bill and that I especially want to celebrate. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation on work that the bill was understood by a certain point, but the whole committee put forth effort to work well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u56	A respectable president. In my heart, I don't agree much with the privatization of the elementary school system. However, I realize that as a district senator in which there has been a problem with running a general high school and having to negotiate with an independent middle school for a certain reason that life is not always black and white. In a committee interview with this subject, with a sense of urgency. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir presented a point of view that it is important that students always have a choice between private and generally fired elementary school and that they are not required to pay expenses or pay expenses if they do not have a choice. Of course, a number of aspects of the profession and of the rights of a teacher need to be considered. I, however, follow principles in the bill that depend on the activities of vacation homes and their integration with school activities, so I will vote for them and sit by other ways. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u57	A respectable president. Since it is very important that from our point of view in the short future, the law around the business of vacation homes is being reinforced, that is a very good case. So about the other, the law on the independentprivacy of elementary school. It is a key to our view that there are diversity in school, and there are many choices offered to students. Of course, there are schools that have a key role for them, and there are many examples of such schools in Icelandic society. We are involved in this meaning, are convinced after the review of the Committee, that this is merely a matter of strengthening the law on independent schools and no significant changes made. It is, in effect, validating and putting it into the law. I think it's important to say this because some of the bill may have an overlay to create a basis for some small school with very high school fees, since only children of wealthy parents could pursue studies. [[The president calls.]] So I'm warning the committee that I'm in the meaning that the bill isn't doing it. It's just strengthening right now. [[The president calls.]] If people were to go to some all-inclusive school and so on, they'd need another discussion, much deeper, and I'd go against it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u58	Mr. President. We left green will vote with the vacation home factor that is on and will be creating a good, very necessary frame of view. We come by to sit with the tip of an independent elementary school and feel that various questions do not go there, e.g. how this finding is obtained and whether the simple majority of the local authorities decide whether or not to come from the local community itself or its citizens. We are concerned about the teacher's salary and rights. The answer has not been answered. Then we're totally against it because we may be able to hire some private member of the community, whether the business is in the form of a partner or somebody else's property, because we don't feel that operating elementary school is meant to be a business at any point. [[The president calls.]] So we cannot agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u59	A respectable president. I'm not going to repeat it. I'm going to take it for granted. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson went to a previous talk. I believe that it is very important to have variety in school matters, especially in those times where there is a great deal of information and learning opportunities. There is a major trend in this general issue, which is of great importance that the legislation recognizes and recognizes. I still sign the majority of the section's opinion in advance that the proportion of dollars from rural funds to an independent functional elementary school should be replaced by 90% instead of 75%. I want to keep it up, and I feel that schools are funded by the consumption so that independent expelled schools are real options for anyone who would like to be used by them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to mention in terms of the independent head of the elementary school that here is the result of a very difficult job, legal work, which began just because such a situation came up in one particular rural society where these factors were tested. I believe the legal conclusion has been very well prepared. It's about what it's like. A senator earlier said about 75% of the target, I would like to mention that it is weighted average by the total cost of all elementary school in the country. The smaller schools in the country are often more expensive than larger schools, e.g. in the capital area. If we were to take the minimum of 90%, it would mean that in large areas of the country where the larger schools are, such schools would be a lot more used than the schools in the area around us. That's why I didn't suggest 90%. An average person has to keep in mind may act somewhat misleadingly. But I agree. A senator that matters that as many as possible have this possibility, and we have more alternative options and other options for parents to choose, even though they are not buying education or setting up a position beyond what others receive. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I didn't have something like that. suggest 90%.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u61	V.E.G. President. We vote for 2nd. about new foreigners. A general review of laws about foreigners has taken place. The aim of the changes we can see here is to add services to those who need to use the legislation, increase the effectiveness and quality of the administrations, keep in mind economic management, support the Icelandic labour market, and increase international competitiveness. There's a lot of work to be done with this big case, and it's the most important bill the Board of Public Education and Education has been working on in the season. The work went well, and I thank you very much for the cooperation of a full - time board as well as the transnational Parliamentary Commission as the then Minister of Internal Affairs, Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristunnsdótir, and the current Minister of Internal Affairs, Ólöf Nordal, continued, and then proposed this bill. There's a big stage that next time, and I believe that the bill, if it's going to be a law, is a great requisite for all those who need it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u62	A respectable president. This is a big issue, as we have seen. Here, too, is a very unusual interpolitical practice, an exemplary practice that we are to promote in all major conflicts for Icelandic society. This is a legal case that is a great deal of improvement and a great deal of progress for an important group of subjects, all in the way of increased humanity, and in harmony with international commitments. In this category, we are never at the finish line. We need to be careful in every step and in the spirit of that solidarity if we need to make changes in the law in the future. Because of the importance of the jury, it is very important that the Council carefully monitor the implementation of the law and ensures funding for its implementation. I suggest that the Council of Congress has a special role in observing how this case is incensed in the implementation of the Commission and we continue to have cross-cutting work as we have done under the highest initiative. former Minister of the Interior, Birna Kristoff's Daughter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u63	A respectable president. When I tell my foreign colleagues that Iceland had developed a parapolitic legislation about foreigners in those days, the reaction is a complete wonder but also a lot of excitement. Therefore, I would like to emphasize the importance of the Icelandic nation that we stand together in such a delicate and complex matter as are foreign languages. Many are to be commended in this situation, the current Minister of the Interior, the former Minister of Ministers, why. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who originally made this case in the course of success; the House of Congress, which worked well on this and then the Council Committee itself. I'd like to finally commend all of us for having managed to maintain this solidarity and develop it for the past losses.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u64	A respectable president. We're here to vote for a revolution in the seminary, revised legislation from the beginning. This bill is probably not a request bill or a dream bill for anyone; however, it is a bill that most people, if not all, can accept. It is employed in a broad crosspolitic solidarity. It is employed in a very extensive field consultation with stakeholders, with institutions and full reason to thank very much those who have come to this work within the council and from recruitment agencies, free organisations, etc. On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee, I'd like to thank you for the success of the bill at the council's work. I thank the General and Education Committee for a very good job and a very good change proposal that'll make things better. [[The president calls.]] Of course, in the bright future, we support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u65	A respectable president. It's like whisk. A senator said before, this is a case that no one is probably perfectly pleased with. It is a landing of great value and worth, and in many respects historical work. It's amazing luck, I dare say, that we can finish this thing with this reconciliation. There are a lot of things in the bill that I would have in my own life. I know that more people in this room feel that way. I'm going to vote with a change in plan. The General and Education Committee, which I would like to thank for a very good job; and especially the head of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir. I'd also like to say that part of supporting this case is on the grounds that the value is at next year's convention. Thus, when criticism arises that I expect to occur, during the remaining years of this year, it is possible to react. [[The president calls.]] I'm happy for my work, and thank you very much. Councilmen involved in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u66	A respectable president. Here we vote for a bill to legalize a complete review of the alien law, along with a change in the law on foreign employment rights. This bill, I support my mind. I think it's a great privilege to have been a part of the work done in preparation for the bill and in its implementation in a global and educational committee. I believe there's been a work ethic that we can use in many other ways. After the bill has been accepted, I believe that there will be a great improvement for the overall group of lawsuits, which, of course, must also be reached around immigrants.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u67	A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to thank the members of the council who have come to thank my warm words. However, I would like to court and remind the United States that it is not the decision of any individual minister to secure such a work ethic. It's not by itself, and I want to thank you for that. It does not necessarily mean that governments in such delicate and difficult political matters choose to participate. I was very grateful when, as Minister of the Interior State, I experienced how difficult this matter was and how complicated it might be when the government situation, when, in turn, welcomed the start of this work and give it the lead. Thank you. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér especially for that. I took full advantage of my work as Minister to get senators to lead the job and try to do so in a transverse way. I must say that as my experience as a result, it wasn't difficult to take that discussion or to build such a cross political platform at the council. It was difficult, however, to find a place, to get it done and to get the system to cooperate with me as secretary of it. It was far more complicated to get a positive understanding of it within the Ministry, within the system, and within the institutions that the way things were meant to be satisfied than to be accepted and cooperated with it at the council. It is sobering to consider, not only for politicians but also for the common people, that it is not necessarily the politics that oppose them. Sometimes it's just old tradition and ideas about how the system is going to work, so it has to be changed. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u68	A respectable president. There is considerable effort to reach a cross - political conclusion when a parapolitic will is available to bring matters to a successful outcome. It is admirable to know that wherever they stand, people are ready to reach out for political shootings in the name of professionalism, dignity, and humanity in order to improve the construction of this important sect. I'll lend the bill like the rest of my support. However, I comment on the fact that the interest and justice of immigrants and refugees have not been set aside, on the other hand, from the research and decision of the Foreign Institute. I warn you, and I don't think it's a success to have all the resources of the foreigner on the hands of a single institution. I would have considered administrative justice and more in the spirit of a good government to understand there. So I'll vote specifically and sit next to 2 mg. Section 4. The bill, of course, supports it otherwise and congratulates the council on this milestone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u69	V.E.G. President. I would like to agree with those who have mentioned the importance of being resolved on this matter in a tripolitic solidarity. I haven't been in a grave because a lot of stuff on the bill doesn't seem far enough for me. However, I believe that the proposed changes make the matter much better and especially the principles that concern children. So it is a step, perhaps a little step, but a step in the right direction. That's why I'm going to support it. But I believe that further improvement is needed in the future, even before the law takes effect, as well as that work will be put on the job to ensure that the act of the law will always be guided by humanity.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u70	President. It is in the spirit of work around these legislations that you can agree with every single person. A senator here has a comment on the bill. I'd also like to remind you, it has not been shown that there has been a very extensive consultation at work, this very special work that I hope will continue, both that the Council Committee continues to work, and I hope that more ministers take up this way to work cross-continently before the larger categories are finally satisfied in the scheme. I think it's very important to thank the members of the State Department who have done an amazing job. Then I will also say, because it hasn't happened yet, that much of this law is based on law as yet. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson worked on it. Then I'd also like to say that I wanted to go further, but this is the beginning. I want to thank the Congress and the Ministry and the former and present legislatures for a very good job. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u71	V.E.G. President. We now vote for a foreign bill, a total law. Clearly, there are many good things in the bill, especially those involved in the rights of foreigners, administration, and other important factors. It has been reported here that this is a revolution, this is a huge case, but a very limited discussion has been made on this subject, both here and there, in the public. [[Up front.]] That's where I was. We're gonna take care of this last day. It's not a big deal, it's just to say it right now. That has not been serious because it is a revolution, and it has been done on the basis of its social impact. We may have time to do that later. We are traveling in many ways other than other nations. [[The president calls.]] How does that affect us? In many respects, it is quite different. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to break the cohesion, as the bill is now, I will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u72	A respectable president. It is most enjoyable to stand here today, and that the Council of Congress, a minister who has come to the case and others have had the good fortune to follow the work that began in the last term under the direction of the then Minister of Ögmundur, Ágmund the son of Jónasson. The conclusion is that today we have a bill that is much better than the laws in force. That's what matters. This is a step on the right path in which we are responding to people who are fleeing because of war and other circumstances that are important for us as a prosperous welfare community and for whom we can be supportive. We're supposed to be guided by humanity in these matters, and we're supposed to be on the lead, okay? paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, with regard to the nations in this regard, go beyond the surrounding nations because we can and have the opportunity to do so. [[The president calls.]] That's what matters. Finally, I want to thank the chairman of the committee and the other members of the case, the NTSB and the Ministry for a good job. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Honorable President. I found out very late. I'll let me get ahead of myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u73	That was a strange remark. Hv. A senator learned that in line with what she had requested. [[No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u74	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u75	The president is in charge of this first and second, so the president was handing in the hands of a number of members of the council who wanted to speak up, and he did so reasonably. A senator's word is in harmony with what had been written down on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u76	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, we have a vote for a foreign law here. It has been reported that this is a huge, big case, as I said last night, a file on 190 pages, which has little or no discussion here at the council. A lot of what? Congress officials are saying that people in the country need time to figure things out and talk about it. We don't give that space at any rate here. There are many doors being opened in this bill, although there are also a lot of good things, as we have seen here, in it. Sweden has told us that they were naive in the affairs of foreigners. Danes have formed a national conspiracy to block the people's journey to the country looking for a free supply. We need to be careful of that, and that's why I'm going to sit next to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u77	V.E.G. President. This is a full revision of the law. This is not the first time a complete review of large layers. An unusual discussion of these matters has been made. Both cases were given a review of the Ministry's Web at the time, and then the Senate Committee was given a detailed discussion on the progress of the case. Besides that, the General Board has done a very thorough review, the number of visitors, and the number of meetings discussed. So it's not unusual that we take the big, great step of making this bill the law here today. What a joy it is for all of us to reach this stage and this solidarity! [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u78	A respectable president. There is reason to believe that this bill and its preparation have had years of success, originally based on work done during the last term. The work of a transnational Synod committee was very familiar. A professional meeting with members of the seminar was held. The draft that the bill of the Council of Congress was published publicly in the last summer and held open information conferences and conferences before the matter entered the Parliament, where it has received a very professional and professional and educational work with a fine visiting and important presence of the council. I'm glad we're working this way, and I'm glad we're finally after all that work here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u79	A respectable president. That's the fourth question. which includes, or includes, the possession of all the affairs of the stranger, one institution, the Foreign Institute. I don't think it's in the spirit of a good government to have both a ruling and a research role at the same party, which, in turn, is to take care of the interests and the justices. It authorizes the Agency and obliges it to obtain information, e.g. for situations which can then be used against the same person from the same institution. This isn't the right board of directors, a respectable president, so I'm going to stay by this paragraph and then vote with the bill in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u80	The president would like to insist that these rules be arranged after the incident. Senators have opened a vote, we're not talking about the vote, we're closed on the rosary. Others had not prayed for the word to come. A senator spoke up. We now vote on 2 mg. Section 4. and that vote is at hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u81	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from 2 June 2016 or later, if necessary, to 15 August 2016. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u82	V.E.G. President. We're going to vote for a new rent. As an authority in the case, I considered it a reason to come up in a quick, brief discussion of the vote. The bill we vote for today is primarily about improving and explaining both landlords and tenants' rights. This bill is a major step forward and part of improving the rent market in Iceland. All four housing plantes at the highest. The secretary of the house has been fully satisfied with the welfare committee. I'd like to thank the Committee again for good cooperation and congratulate the Minister of Homeland and, of course, support the bill wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u83	V.E.G. President. I want to thank the manager of the case. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, for her work on the case and what. A welfare committee for all work. As one authority showed, the objective of this bill is to increase the legal security of tenants and improve the communication between tenants and landlords in order to reduce disagreements. One thing I would like to draw attention to is that one of the biggest rights of the bill is to change the law of forced sales. The change is that in the forced sale of an apartment house that the tenant has used according to a contract, he should be justified in staying in the rented room, but never more than 12 months from the agreement against rent pay offered, which, in the opinion of the businessman, is a suitable rent. This is a very important legal step in increasing safety, and hopefully we see fewer reports of people and individuals and families being evicted just a few days after forced sales are performed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u84	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the chairman of the case, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, very much for all her work. I would also like to thank the welfare committee for the cooperation of this matter. Because I'm looking to the highest. I'd like to thank the Minister of State for her cooperation too. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir is a major requisite in the bill involved in the tenants'positions of forced sales. We have all taken care of mountains of the difficult situation in which tenants have been in so far for forced sale of property they have rented. I'd like to mention another point that I believe will be of great importance in improving both tenants and landlords' standings, which is suggested here to consider the case of the WCC as binding, which they have not yet been. It is being made clear that, of course, the conclusions established by the NTSB should be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u85	A respectable president. I come up here to express my joy with the bill and the solidarity formed by the Committee on the bill. I thank the government for this bill as a greatly improved environment for various innovations, vastly supported for research and development. There are a number of innovations in which I think it will be useful to improve the entire environment and the competitiveness of Icelandic companies, small and medium-sized, in innovation and development. I'm celebrating.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u86	A respectable president. It is with great pleasure that I vote with this important bill. I'll take my heart to the last word. A speaker. This is an extremely important step for innovation in the country that has rarely or never been as fruitful as it is now, so I welcome it and congratulate all of us on the changes we are making here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u87	A respectable president. I want to celebrate this case. Here we are taking steps to unite into one of the government's forestry institutions and branch projects in forestry. This makes the seminars simpler and stronger and also consistent with the environmental emphasis we Icelanders have to put on all things today. I would like to see that the revised forestry and land - healing laws will be accelerated, and that may allow further unity to be seen at this stage in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u88	A respectable president. This is where we vote for a bill to correct various laws due to a new Forest Service on the 3rd Environment. I agree with the changes presented here and believe that the important basis for continuing the development of new jobs, as well as for their importance for the development and environmental work and how we work on the environment here. Likewise, I am very pleased with the solidarity of the change. However, I am aware that farmers working for forestry are concerned with certain concerns and therefore want to reiterate the importance of a new institution, and those working in deforestation of their own land, continue to cooperate, as well as to policy development and focus in the work as on negotiations and finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u89	A respectable president. I'm glad that this bill is becoming law-enforced and is grateful to have been involved in this work; it's been fun and interesting, and I think there's a lot of progress in forestry. The Congress had previously proposed a synonym, which proposed further measures to promote forestry, which I think we should continue to work on. But I think this is a good first step we can so continue working on, which was spoken of further unity, as we have seen here. I'd like to emphasize that with a new deforestation agency, it is the thought of helping the forest prayer and others to expand their operations and markets. In time, the development of a forest - breeding organization is expected to contract and gradually decrease as farmers come to the weather. I think it's very important in this case, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative that our partnership is important, and our cooperation is that it will be active.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u90	A respectable president. It is a joy to be allowed to stand here and to see that this is becoming a law. It is possible to maintain a good bond of union. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's video for her job at this job. I'd like to thank you for his new Forest Manager, how he's handled matters after he was hired and talked to his employees. It is not often that you are caught by employees, who are being united by organizations that express their joy. I want to thank you too. The Environment and Transport Committee for her work, as well as the Senate. I think we are doing very good together, and it can become an example to others, but the forestry is very important for many purposes, especially in preventing climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u91	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this case. This is a step in the right direction, a step I hope will be the most proud. However, as I've done before, I'd like to go further, like a Senate decree, which is the 12th matter here at the council, which we piranha made until the last fall. I welcome this matter and welcome the particular development of Iceland's views, including government officials, to the fact that institutions with authority need to be monitored. The police are the only organization in the country that has the authority to use physical power. It is an essential part of our society, unfortunately, but the more important it is to keep a clear watch over such authority, just as democracy is important to keep back the authority that is here. I rejoice over and over again, hoping that this step will be proud, but I also say, " It's okay to take bigger steps, and I expect them to be phased in the future. '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u92	V.E.G. President. I'm glad this case has come to the final stage of the council treatment. It is true, as we have seen, that it is necessary to discuss the maintenance and control of society institutions that have official authority and that this is done without any apparent tendency to raise suspicion toward these institutions. It is old, and new that every institution, whatever name they are called, needs to be maintained. I think the steps taken with this bill are important. I also wanted to see that in the field of the Commission and the House Control Committee, there has been a discussion of having a further discussion on the development of these issues, of course, with the entrance of the General Committee, which is the area where the police issue is specifically under discussion, but we have also requested a conversation with the Minister of Internal Affairs and the State Department of State on that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u93	I hope now we have a brief recess on a vote. We'll have a discussion here on a few matters, but by the end of this meeting, there will be a call for votes again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u94	V.E.G. The President doesn't have to worry that I'm going to talk here and extend this meeting very much, but I'm going to say a few words on this subject, which is delivered by more of the General and Education Committee to cover one more trip... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u95	The President would like a sound in the councilroom so much. A senator can speak freely.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u96	... the operation of a music school in the country, and maybe especially those who are pursuing higher education. We've been in it every spring to do this at the last minute, making money so that the music school can go smoothly. Now we do it again. The minister had promised a year ago that this would be the last time that this would be done because he wanted to reexamine the music program in the country, yet nothing has happened. This bill comes from the Committee and is based on an agreement made in April. Still, it comes in here at the last minute. V.E.G. One minister wanted to kill the point that he had been talking about reevaluating music laws, saying that now it was unnecessary because high school might be established in music, for example, that there might be a chance he would intend to do so by law. However, I would like to draw special attention to the fact that in the government Constitution for this year 2015-2016, 7th case on the list of Education Ministers is a complete reexamination of music here. It was just wrong, and that's not good. Sadly, the minister is known to try to change the school system; he has made huge changes in the high school system without ever discussing it fully in the General Assembly and has done so through regulations or financial laws. In the past, he has said that he will change the system of Icelandic students and would like to bring it into the council without any opportunity for the senators to study that bill. I want to use this opportunity to condemn the way I work. Secretary of education and culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u97	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee's list, with a proposal for action to be made on the treatment plan and the provision of the resources derived from an overall set of 5 mg. Section 8. Law on Fishing Control, No. 116/? 2006. The committee discussed the matter and attended the conference of Baldur P. Erlingsson, Jóhann Guðmundsson and Hinrik Greipsson frá the atvinnuvega of - og nýsköpunarráðuneyti. The recommendation stipulates the quantity to be derived from the total amount per type according to 5 mg. Section 8. legal about the control of fishing. The proposal does not include a major change from what is laid out in the current Senate resolution No. 15/144, but there is an increase in the quantity of farms for support and to the market of theisation organisation, as well as the proposed lower quantity for future farming in cod. The committee suggests that the proposal will not be tied to the'2016/2017 fishing year and thus suggests a change in the proposal. However, the Commission will recommend that the conclusions be reviewed for the fishing year 2017/2018 if the proposal is adopted. At the same time, the Committee suggests that the 8th party of the proposal will be removed, with the assurance that up to 1,000 tons will be put aside for specific temporary measures. We recommend that the matter be agreed with the adjustment proposed here. Under this rule, Jón Gunnarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafsdóttir Olafursdottir, in advance, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Þórunn Eglil's Egilsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u98	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a board of committees on bill repairs from the welfare committee. All of them. The welfare committee is behind this committee party but one o'clock. A senator in advance and will he, that I think in this discussion, explain to them in advance. The committee took to heart a number of visitors and reports. I'm going to go here only in the subject of the bill, in terms of agreement to support tenants. The bill suggests that new housing laws will be replaced with rent-ins. Its aim is to reduce the cost of housing for smaller tenants. In any case, the number of people in your household may be affected by economic benefits and financial gains and income markets. The government is expected to be in charge of housing, while rurals are expected to have special housing support for tenants. The government and the European Union have agreed on a revised work and cost exchange between the state and rural society due to housing support to tenants. It says that rural society should provide citizens who need special housing support to reduce pay loads for housing costs. Among other things, these may be due to special housing support for parents or those who are under 18 years of age, who temporarily reside at boarding homes or parks, taking into account the overall circumstances of the families, according to the greater agreement of the members. A minister is commissioned to provide guidelines on the support and the reference height. In policy development in the management of the bill, it was proposed to aim for the integration of interest payments and rent payments into one system of housing improvements. This is not to be done, but the rules for housing are to be added closer to those for interest. The committee considers it a positive step and right to continue moving toward uniting general housing support into one system. The next chapter of the bill has to do with a comment, but I refer to a committee opinion in this requested Council Report, No. 1427 and believe that this section will explain itself to the members of the Committee. I'm going to go here a little bit in the management section: It's the law to hide the Labour Department, including the execution of the law. in the case of the Agency's experience with monthly pay on the basis of birth and parental rules, No. 95/2000, as well as the Agency's access to communications from the government tax manager. The Commission suggests that the Agency will be presented in Article 1 of the case. Section 5. The 3rd issue, 1st. Section 5. suggests that the decision should be made in comparable matters. Although the law is intended to establish an equal court rule, its terms are more than 11. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993, considered inappropriate. So the committee proposes that the trial be removed. 2nd issue. The same articles show that the candidate should organise his budget each year for next calendar improvement according to budgetary rules and send a minister for further treatment. The committee feels that it is more convenient to leave the laws on public financial matters in this regard and therefore suggests that the matter should be dismissed. I'm going to do a little more housing things: 2 mg. Count 9. says that living in the rented home is a condition where housing is properly performed. According to Article 3, home dwellers are there, as defined by an definition. The bill. The Commission suggests that the requirement rather applies to the candidates as members of the household in the application. It is therefore possible to deny the applicant's application falsely as members of the household. The Committee also suggests a corresponding change in the 3rd mg team. Count 9. C-population criteria 2.mg. 3 mg. 9. g., a suitable household position, and a lack of rent on a part of a home, accepted criticism. The conditions are aimed at helping tenants live in adequate household facilities, including taking into account the level of loyalty and safety, such as burns. In view of this, it is not proper for the government to rent on unsatisfactory housing facilities. The committees believe that it is normal to respond to housing problems for individuals who do not have financial resources to obtain adequate housing on the basis of law on rural social services, which is about the duties of partners in housing; their specific section of law. The committee points out that with a bill to legalize a general apartment - which we have hereby approved as a case of No. 435 - is aimed for increased supply in rented homes, including community rented housing by rural society. According to the E team 2 mg. Count 9. it is the requirement to have the applicant's approval and the other members of the household at 18 years of age and older to provide information. According to number 7. the law on personal protection and the handling of personal information must be made voluntarily granted to accept consent in their understanding of the law. Personal protection showed that it would not be appropriate to discuss the agreement for information collected in the terms of housing benefits, since information collection is conditional and therefore preferred. In line with the Persian protection proposal, the Committee suggests that an invitation should be referred to, rather than a יcontribution, in several branches of the bill. The Commission suggests that this has been made up of an agreed application for the extension (s) in step 3.mg. Count 9. falling away since housing benefits will be provided only on the basis of a approved housing application. I'm going to go over a little bit on house-to-house improvements: Base level 16. and the decrease in income and the cut-offs in the 17th sector. Be critical that too little of the support goes to them the least of their income. The committee proposes a protagonist at 1 mg. Section 16. And the base hills rise as well as the plains of vacations. In addition, the Committee suggests that the bases and the home markets reach a maximum of four more than five and that the money reduction rate increases from 8.02% to 9%. The changes will lead to a greater improvement in support to the income of tenants, without offering the objective of the bill to reach a wider income group than the current rent - rent system. The changes also match single - parent families and people who live alone and have only a contribution to social security. This committee, ask. A table of 1427 shows the amount of rent money, housing, and interest. This is where I've made an account of her. The 3rd issue. 17th par. says a minister may change the decline rate based on 1 mg. Article of Regulation. An increase in the share would reduce the benefits to those who make money over the payoffs. The committee feels that it is undesirable to give such a warrant to the minister without further arbitration and therefore suggest that the matter be dismissed. In 1st. 18th par. According to one estimate, basic housing levels are reduced by a proportion of the combined property of all households, 18 years of age and older, which exceed 6,500,000. Until they drop completely in the amount of 60 percent higher. It was noted that the limits of the impairment were not clear. And this committee program presents a specific formula for the calculation, which brings me back to the figures No. 1427, this is the case. Two. 18th par. it says that property should be considered in the same period during each calendar year and housing payments are covered, as is 3 mg. 20. As shown by the previous article, debt and possessions are considered to be in relation to a position at the end of the year. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. Therefore, it may be difficult to locate possessions within a period of one year. So the committee suggests that property should be determined at the end of the year. However, the committee suggests an exception that aims to make it easier for tenants to buy houses or farm property. For similar reasons, the Committee suggests that property is referred to within the year 1 and 3rd. 20. ... goout. Residence: Two. Twenty-one. refers to the 8th month application (s) of Article 3. The bill. The committee considers that the contents of the definition are more accessible in Article 21. and suggests a change of content. The 3rd issue. Twenty-one. reports that minimum housing level will be revised each year and if a minister is permitted to raise it by law. The Commission suggests that the review should take into account the change in prices. However, the nature of the matter and the nature of it are only allowed, so the amount of money that each year does not need to be updated because of minor prices. Monitoring and recalculation: Two. 23rd par. it says that games may be reasoned with the possibility of paying repairs on the basis of the applicant's false or misleading information, allowing third party to provide information that is important in order to reevaluate the right to improve housing. Notes that the law says that it can, for example, do so. refers to preschool, landlords, housemates, and employers. According to the Committee, it is preferable to specify the source of information to the candidate, as is done at 1 mg. Section 15. in which there is a warrant for obtaining information from the local tax authorities, Iceland's National Institute of Education, the Icelandic Board of Students, rurals, tenants, landlords, and established educational institutions within the general educational system, as well as to which the committee believes that if an executive believes that he has reasoned with the applicant's criminal rights, he would naturally sue the police rather than investigate it himself. So the committee suggests 2nd. 23rd par. ... goout. The 1st saying, 3 mg. Twenty-six. says that if the applicant received less housing money than he should have, he should be paid with interest. The 3rd sentence of the same paragraph discusses the applicant's right to pay the head of the well-being committee to conclude that he has not received an compensation he was entitled to. The committee suggests that the 3rd case will be removed, but instead it will be clear that 1st case is not relevant for the applicant to receive a suitable mortgage. This committee, ask. There are 1427 aspects of the subject. It states: The Committee suggests changes in percentages to number 1 of 32 points. to take into account the changes in rural income laws, No. 4/1995, according to III. section of the Law on various criteria for budgeting for 2016, No. 125/2015. It's in number two 32. says that rural society is permitted to provide support for housing costs. The Commission suggests, in particular, that they provide special housing support, including the 15◯17 - year - old children in dormitories or parks, and that the Minister gives guidance on the support, in line with the earlier government agreement and the European Union of the United States. Paybacks are now free from income tax, according to Count 9. a law on income taxes. The Committee considers it desirable that housing and special housing support under local community social services will also be excluded from income tax and contributes to the change in income tax laws. At the end, there are provisional measures: The Commission feels strongly that housing support for homekeeping will be taken into account and considered for its partial or complete implementation under B-articular housing laws. the management of income taxes, including In view of recent changes in housing law, No. 66/2003, by law No. 29/2016. So the committee proposes provision for this provision. Other forms of evolution explain themselves in the process of thawing. 1428 from what? The welfare committee. The committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the adjustment made to a special Senate document I referred to earlier, namely. 1428. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon writes in advance. Hv. The members of Ásmundur Friðriksson, the Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir, J. Sigfússon and Unnur BráKonráðsdóttir were absent at the hearing, while literature was thought to do so, according to Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under this committee, June 1, 2016, saw a senator standing here, Arnardóttir Lára Eagledótttir of the case, Ingadóttir Ingjörbjörgdóttir, chairman of welfare committee, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir, Páll Valr Brá, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, Dögg Döggnar Gunnarsdóttir, Sigfússon Sigevógógótir, early in advance, and Bjoná Konráðsdóttir. I close my case here, but in other respects I refer to this controversial committee, which is a thread. 1427, on account of the 407, and in the shape of change. 1428, for the same thing. In addition, this committee contains a package that states the agreement between Iceland's Government and the European Union on a revised work and cost exchange between state and rural society due to changes in the housing frameworks and the guidance of the Ministry's well-being rules for special housing support and community housing services. This agreement was signed on May 31, 2016. That's what you did. Social and housing minister of Eygló Harðardóttir and Karl Björnsson on behalf of the Union of Iceland. I want to end up in 2nd. on this matter, thank you. A well - being committee for much solidarity in all the housing and other matters she has taken up for the winter. Being part of this group of senators has been a valuable and satisfying lesson. The welfare committee this winter. I give all of them the best thanks for their hard work and a great deal of cooperation to help with the goal of improving the housing market in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u99	Madam President. As already mentioned, I sign this opinion in advance. I will now only account for him, he is part of a general nature, but turns to other aspects of the subject. First of all, the work of the welfare committees was limited to this matter because of much concern for other enormous issues that have been discussed by the committee and have taken much of its time for the majority of winters. From then on, it was a law on housing partnerships, and then toward the end, and in reality, soon after the New Year's Eve, working on a generalised bill, a new social housing system in the country that we were having legalized here just before lunch. As a result, over a period of time, the committee did not have time or a position to care for this matter, so its survival was carried out in a relatively short period of time. Nevertheless, changes were made that I will support. The nature of the matter and, in accordance with what has been presented, there was little time to examine exactly how it is possible to make the changes in contributing factors, capital values, and holidays, which are still the result of suggesting, and a leading authority was only a matter of principle that was behind my sharing with other members on the welfare committee. Though I have had less time, I would have liked to lie over whether there we are achieving the best possible approach according to the goals we set for ourselves. A few of the most serious and significant of the bill's mistakes, as mentioned, were that it was not clear who was going to be in charge of the construction process. Interestingly, the bill made it clear that a social minister was obliged to select only a candidate. This did not apply well to many, and it did not suggest perennial protection that it would be appropriate for so many sources of information and observation that the bill assumes that the executive was only forwarded by a policy plan to something and something. However, if such detailed sources of information were available, it would immediately be improved that it was clear to what legal entity would receive them. So it was a bit of trouble, and for a time the Ministry informed us that insurance agencies cared for the project. A insurance agency set out to prepare to take over the project, but then the minister, or Ministry, changed his mind and the bond reached the Labour Department. That's what's happening now, and really more than that, because it finally enters the law which the manager is referring to as a change to the welfare committee. To this conclusion, there is a vague argument. I've heard them, such as that there's experience in handling monthly payments. Many more people have experience in paying out something monthly, but in this case it would be birth and parentorof, for example, and then, of course, unemployment. Indeed, the Agency has ongoing access to information provided by the national taxpayer's local base which is an advantage. That account, in fact, has one community partner in Reykjavík today making good use of rent payments in the present arrangement. My doubts remain that this is necessarily the best outcome for the future, Madam President, with all respect for the Labour Department, to save the project there. That's one of the reasons why I choose to be on the matter in advance. I've counted, and I'm not alone, a lot of reporters and guests who came before the committee shared a point of view, that it was most likely that the project was at the head of state tax by paying interest. The government's administration is powerful, well-controlled, equipped, and has shown that it can handle big, important tasks, even special projects. I wouldn't have any concern that these payments were monthly, a few of the government taxpayers' fees are not monthly, but quarterly, and acquired and otherwise, and a once a year's work would not be properly solved in that town. The benefits I could see would also be that I had come to one hand, to one place, to pay both interest payments, and to repair housing. To the future it would be desirable because, on the second hand, there is a reason for a warning on my part, because, unfortunately, we are not reaching all the way with this job, which has many years of prehistoric history and, at least, two governments have been working on it, and we are going to pick up some kind of coordinated network of housing support to less efficient families. It is important that we do not lose sight of that goal. It can be well said that this is a step toward making changes in the system of rent - making benefits. It may be said that the simple thing is to achieve that the general support, housing benefits, will be at one hand in the state, but today it is a cooperation project, a deposit made by the local community to cover payments, and even special rents too, but it will now be cut apart. However, the conclusion remains that three parties have the support of housing support for less - income people. It is the rural community with special housing support, it will be a labour agency with a payment of housing and a government tax manager with interest payments. This isn't the future blow in these materials I would've wanted to see. Secondly, I have already made a little aware of the warnings I have on the implementation of the calculation of mortgage improvements as suggested and now with the changes in the welfare committee I am making in regards to the changing productions of contributing factors, basic housing benefits, and holiday limits. Of course, this caught immediate attention when the bill appeared and the tables that followed the fact that certain groups who have enjoyed what has been richly supported in the rent system actually did not get anything out of the system change and of the extra money that is available to support tenants through housing. It was simply sanctified because the calculated criteria were so set that the benefits would be higher in the income ladder and less special emphasis would be on the most efficient families, e.g. Single parents with children, etc. The result of the Department of Health that was made by the Ministry to the Commission's wish and co-ordinated is to go there just more spaces both. Thus, the outcome will be more favorable than the bill itself would expect for just those groups that have been given particularly abundant support or even greater support, but it may now not be the correct wording, Madam President, I apologized for speaking of some particularly rich or generous support to the tenants in Iceland, but it has not been so that it has been tried in particular to support single parents with children in their current systems and the incomey children's families. They're much better off from those calculated criteria than the one the bill suggested. But I repeat, I've had very little time to lay down on this one, would've liked to. Of course, I've always found that this can be extremely sensitive, and sometimes you don't quite see the outcome when men in a short time change based on this kind of calculation. These are of utmost importance, for despite all great value, this support is a low income family. There's nothing to be mistaken about, so I leave myself the right to observe how this is going to come out and then respond to what I'm going to be doing. Third, the situation was a serious problem, as it came from the government, which I criticized at 1st. and to the Committee that special housing support for the rural community was still expected to be the most difficult to deal with within them to be selective, i.e. The rural communities were to remain on their own whether the additional house - to - house support, which has often been under stress on the payment of rents, where especially difficult social care or other circumstances would be necessary, would continue to be selective. This was very painful because human hopes had been raised so that we were reaching this system, making it whole, and making all the people of the country equal to the fact that they lived in any of their rural communities. Of course, it was always a hope when the expedition was launched to adopt one integrated support system, housing support system, or housing support system for the country regardless of whether they would vote or have to rent their housing or if they were trying to earn one of its own, that some kind of uniform support would be involved in the lack of discrimination in changing materials, since it is not entirely possible to smooth down the mortgages or housing that are involved in terms of subsidies of low - paying families and growths that, despite all the families' efforts to make small and limited property. It may be justified to look at it, but the goal to be, I believe, is that over the lifetime of a normal family, the public support that is equal in this regard is not to discrimination in particular. Of course, this calls for one shared housing arrangement. In other words, it is not getting caught and would have been even more distant to ensure more equality in these matters if the rural communities continued to have had the ability to choose whether they had special housing support. Therefore, I especially rejoice that at last a deal between the state and rural society and the further implementation of the state and rural cost exchanges in terms of housing support arrangements was reached, that the rural communities now have the responsibility to have special housing support. This is in the agreement as part of a committee document in Article 2. With President's permission, it simply says: The job must be carried out by general housing support to tenants according to the legislation laws. Municipal development of special housing support should be carried out in accordance with local community social services legislation, with subsequent adjustments. Again, special housing support is discussed, as stated at Numbers 14: "I have made my way out. " par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The relevant population should be provided with special housing support to reduce the payment rate due to housing costs in accordance with the local rules. This also takes place 7 in the amendment of the welfare committee, for it contains a section that changes the local community services law to add three new paragraphs as follows, allowing the president: In accordance with local regulations, EU legislation should provide specific housing support. In other words, it will be from time to time in which this is not a matter of choice but of duty. It also led to the conclusion that the rural communities are to provide parents or guardians at the age of 15 in their children or young people renting rooms in their dormitories or parks, i.e. who must attend a school away from their home and thus have to live in parks or dormitories, support for housing expenses. So they also get certain housing benefits, past rents, because of the cost. Of course, this is an important matter. I'm not criticizing the arrangement in itself that this part of the matter is at the hands of the locals. Of course, this is close in many ways, for most young people have a legal home in the countryside but because of circumstances, they have had to attend school out of their homes and are very important to make this happen. In fact, the committee would like to examine the possibility of going further on these subjects and also be able to face the cost of housing for those in the situation of attending school out of the country and of not allowing them to go to homework or parks and have to rent their homes on the market. There are many examples, we know that. However, there is a warning against going into the transition because of the lack of pandobox openings, and people did not have the courage to go all the way into that subject. Although it had been done, I was not very worried simply because there was a relatively small group here. These are mainly students from more remote and remote regions of the country, which, to some extent, prefer to study that is then located or where they are in such circumstances that they do not have access to parks or dormitories than they need to be able to pursue the study as local students to solve their housing issues, perhaps even over a hundred each year. I find that the system is rather awkward if it cannot handle that matter and close it so that there is no chance that, for example, the abuse of such authority would be acceptable. This, however, is the result. But I'd like to keep this up, because it was pointed to visitors who attended the committee. For example, local directors of the northern part of the West made a direct example of the fact that students of their rural communities were in such a position. This I would've liked to have managed to solve, but that's not close to this round. It is a cause for rejoicing in this regard that during the long period of pregnancy the whole matter developed. It did so in and because the Ministry could come to its own conclusions, such as about who should do this. It also developed in this way so that it was clearly enough to provide countries and communities with the time needed to establish an important agreement on this matter. There I repeat and celebrate again, especially, that now it will be the duty of the local community to provide special housing support. I believe, then, that a welfare committee at a time has made a lot of time, and in rather narrow circumstances, they do their best to correct the situation, as the committee always does, and have become its lot in the winter, to receive and receive a wide range of planned bills and to make more or less basic changes in order to improve its handling. This has also been true in part of this case, although the changes may not be as important here as in some other cases, yet these are 22 digits of the modifications made on the fourth page. So there's quite a bit of it now. But what's enjoyable and I've considered is that in many ways time has since come to a good place in the matter, both the Ministry and the Company, and it's good when things are developing in the right direction. That is why, in itself, I am finely at the conclusion and am behind it. Yet, for reasons that I have explained quite clearly, I put the matter under notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u100	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the bill of the General and Education Committee on the granting of citizens' rights. This time the Committee received 56 applications, but we recommend that 30 individuals be granted the citizenship right and have the list of names.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u101	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. Economic and Business Committee on bill for legislation on annual accounts change, No. 3/? 2006, with subsequent changes. This is a simple and induction of the 2013 Annual Calculator Directive? 34/? EU. The nominee is on the roof. 1422, no. 456. This is a major case, streamlining for the job life and the implementation of the annual accounts directive to conform to the European Economic Area. Hv. A financial and business committee covered the matter and enjoyed a good cooperation with the Department of Employment and Development, which had in its own working group a professional professional who prepared the case, and therefore got a bit of work. A number of comments on the matter and at their meeting to follow up on those comments were presented in a very helpful way. I will now explain the changes they are being made in a committee program and refer it outside to the transition in a special budget. No. 1423, case No. 456. General on the subject of the bill: It is important that your partner's annual accounts be explained and illustrate the appropriate status of your peers. The Commission emphasizes that legislation on accounting needs to ensure a balance between receptor interests and corporate interests, taking into account that the commitment to reporting is not unduly burdensome. This information must be published in balance between the needs of business and the work of partners, and it is important that this be guided. The bill stresses the simplicity of our societies and reduces the costs of the smallest partners and their business environment. The bill also includes the implementation of the 2013 European Union Directive/34/EU on the annual accounts of partners that fell from the European Union's prior annual accounts. The aim of a new directive is to combine older directives in addition to reducing the administrative costs of SMEs and improving their business environment, as I said above. It emphasizes the importance of harmonizing legislation in the European Economic Area on the format and content of annual accounts and the methods used in which accounts are published to protect the interests of shareholders, members and third parties. Key comments to the bill and the viewpoint of the Committee: The Commission feels that it is appropriate to consider the points we see in this opinion. Where there was a working group from the Department of Employment and Development, there was some difficulty. A committee called a very good cooperation with the Ministry, which provided a very thorough and well - equipped memo that was very useful in this work. 2.g. The bill focuses on definitions. It contains all the definitions of the current layer under this category 2.g. and add the definitions included in the directive but not in the current legislation. It was noted that the term "investment partner" was to be eliminated in 5th divided by Article 2. The point seems to have no connection with the word in any way as well as to explain why the word is used in the plural form. Here's a 15 mg reference. 2.g. The European Commission's annual bill, on the permission of the President, is presented in the English language of the subsidiary as the translation centre of the State Department's Office, has translated as a financial holding company, ◯. The committee proposes a change in the number. It was noted that the definition of the size of the micro enterprises in the 10th count was narrower than in the directive. This was given extensive discussions in the Committee and many comments, but the committee points out that if based on the size of the directive, as suggested in some comments on the subject, about 90% of all partners would fall under the definition. However, if compared to the proposed proposal in the bill, it is estimated that about 82% of all enterprises fall under the definition. In this context the Commission wants to point out that the annual balance directive requires that if bills are not in euro, the limit of the calculation should be corrected at least every five years. The committee considers a precaution to be the course suggested here and it is unwise to go further until there is experience on how many companies will benefit from this authority. It is important to keep in mind that in this change there is a great simplicity in the annual accounts of an enterprise where there is limited information in this annual account as well as the absence of a government report. Thus, it is concluded by the Commission that at this point it is most expedient to reference a definition proposed in the bill until it becomes clear how this information supply will benefit business life and other monitoring activities. It was suggested that the term "total property" should be used instead of a ◯a balance balance balance of the balance balance balance of the balance sheet (EPS) in the 10th population where the balance of the balance of the balance of accounts could be interpreted as a difference between property and debt. The committee proposes that this be changed. The 11th is defined as the partner and owner of a new partner. This applies to a number of people, but it has to be considered that it is satisfactory to meet either of the criteria to qualify as a member of the community and that such is the intention of the article. So the committee suggests a slight change in order to accomplish this. A change in the 13th sector is proposed to meet the comments in reviews to be consistent with the rendering of the State Ministry Department's translation centre. This suggests small changes to the 15th, including to be dismissed in the European Commission Directive, but it is not customary to refer to the requirements of law texts rather than to comments by bill. It was noted that it would be necessary to add to number 21 so that the definition does not apply to a daughterhood. Thus a definition of a partner would be made in a logical relationship with the definition of a fourth sex society and a 28th term of a motherhood. The committee suggests that this will be responded by means of a change in proposal. The Commission suggests that in the 24th issue, stocks have been classified, not to date, but to the point of risk management. Several comments were made in the definition of a 28 - year - old mother mate. The committee suggests that they will be met by that viewpoint and the Bruxfs 1st. ... isdistribution is defined as control of the 44th number. Then an adjustment of the wording of the 32rd count is suggested, in which the term "partner " is incorrectly used instead of the common word. Addable to the 43rd count that a change in value may also occur in the debt, e.g. offline contracts with negative status. Then it was pointed out in comments that it was necessary to define some basic ideas in addition to those already mentioned in Article 2. In particular, it was noted that the terms had to be defined as property, debt, income, and expenses. The committee suggests that the definition of these terms should be added. As you can hear from this list facing Article 2. and the terms I studied, and the committee suggested that the change is a number of terms that include technical definitions and implementation, of course, some of which took time to review these factors. It's 3rd. in the bill involved in electronic returns for the government tax manager. In effect, there is one of the main elements of the bill that turns toward the simplicity. It was noted in the review that it was unclear whether d-d-d-d-dr. In an effort to allow microbes to meet their requirements, to avoid making annual accounts if they took advantage of the opportunity to use the sender information to the national tax manager to create an economic index and index that would be carried out by an electronic solution known as the ◯ button and would be available in the territory of the current tax adviser. For the record, the Commission has requested that microministers be authorized to negotiate business and economic records are based on the company's tax returns and is limited by society's use of the ◯ button to the government taxpayer in the preparation of the summary. Therefore, it is not expected that a partner will be able to submit to the annual account files made by the company based on its introduction. Information must come directly from the management system. This is a key element in the sense that these changes are made. It is the understanding of the Commission, having agreed with the Ministry, that for the micro-organists who use this simple, this will be an adequate annual account. Ministers are expected to set the requirements for the implementation of the reconstitution of the medicinal product in the Regulation. The committee proposes that the 3rd par. changes slightly to be more accessible. Section 6. received a few discussions on the committee and turns to the language of a year's account. There were comments from the Icelandic Language Committee where criticism was authorized to produce a year bill in English and suggested that changes were made in order to make a annual account in English at all times but also in English if necessary. Was there much agreement on this point on the committee? The committee also calls attention to the fact that the source of this article is directed to partners who have a work fee other than the Icelandic dollar and are therefore in great foreign relations, and therefore would be burdensome for those communities if it was not permitted to return a year's bill in English. The Court's rights to annual accounts are published publicly and on such publications should be available to the public in order to promote transparent and healthy business life. So they need to be in a language understood by the great majority of the people. The Committee takes a whole mind under the National Advisor's perspective and warrants that Icelandic is the national language and the legislature to secure its place in the management system. Eight. will be discussed with the core users of the year. In the 7th issue of this article, it states that balance of assets against debt or income is forbidden against expenses within the individual joints unless it is specifically authorized in other areas of the law. In accordance with the indications given in the reviews and after consultations with the Ministry, the Committee suggests that the words of the Commission, or the such equation, should be added in accordance with the rules of accounting. For example, according to international accounting standards, in certain cases financial and financial balance should be made. It is suggested that the words of the individual joint to the 7th will be removed, which has been observed among stakeholders that the meaning of the word is unclear. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] - Honorable President. There's a hatch out there. I wonder if you can... [[Up front.]] In the 17th. The bill is about the off-limits of business. There was some discussion on the reports of business problems and whether the correct understanding of the bill was that a business will be canceled in ten years. In this context, the Commission wants to justify the fact that the principle of the directive is that chemical assets should be canceled at the time of renewal, then we are dealing with the relevant property, but it cannot be determined about the use time of development costs and business resources to write down these property classes during the period set by the Member States. That period should be no less than five years, not more than ten years. As an example, if it is 15 years of use, it is written off in 15 years, but if it cannot be scheduled, it will be written off in ten years. The committee suggests a small change in the rendering of the article more clearly and avoids misunderstandings. It says so, and now I'm going to read what is presented in the modification document to which I referred: A business will be canceled in 10 years, and the rate of evolution should also be canceled over 10 years if it cannot be specified. This should be a clearer word, a respectable president. So now it's 23rd floor. This is about the introduction of short term shoots. It was noted that the transfers of short-term budgets have been in the annual account of the previous year. If they are still present at the rate of the next year or the subsequent resolution within the same year, it is not necessary to legally submit them. An old short - term schedule suggests that there is little payment in the favor. This change, therefore, is the opposite of the cautionary considerations to be paid and suggests that the Committee will remove the B- unit. Then I'll come to the 24th and 25th. to deal with the cost of operating in a business account. These include terms and expressions, and changes to the subject. The committee calls attention to the number 24 of a-party. has been miscalculated, and suggests that instead of the words, the value of operating account is set to a value at the current account's account. A change in the wording of the 2nd stanzas a-joints is also proposed to be made at 25.3 p.m. in agreement with the comments and notes received by the Ministry Department. I refer to a new document that I came to in the beginning, which contains accurate expressions about this change. For 30th. (b) What will be considered in the next article? will not be a part of 31 st. the bill of the year according to the available bill and therefore suggested that the word be removed from the motion of a new 44. g. As a result, the term also needs to be replaced with a value of 1st and 2 chapters 30. gr. the bill for the term "probably a financial item. " The committee suggests the adjustment of this material. Thirty-three. discusses the approval of accountants. The committee suggests 33 C.E. will be added a new paragraph where the declaration of a fee is required for accountants or accountants in accordance with the terms of the b-part 1. 18th par. The European Union annual accounts directive. 48th. magazines on my share of my share in my roommate's own money. It calls attention to the fact that by the time of the bill, it appears that the first section of verse 1 was made a mistake. 74. g. The law has been appointed the first act of modified 3 mg. 74. g. Therefore, the content of the article does not correlate with comments. The committee proposes a adjustment to correct this mistake. In the 69th. published by Jehovah's Witnesses. The committee emphasizes the importance of the appointment of a letter of reckoning so that it can handle opinion related to the application of a new law. A comment on the rightness of the National Reconclusion of the Council by the Council was made, in view of the fact that the Council is primarily designed to provide guidelines for enterprises and non-national accounting companies. In addition, the State Accountant is a public opinion officer in an accounting board under public financial legislation. Having agreed with the Ministry, the Committee suggests a change in the article in view of comments. Then I'll come to 70th. It's about government fines. The Commission made some adjustments in this chapter, but the original bill made comments from the tax authorities, including the tax authorities. A tax economist, considered by the committee, needs to be taken into consideration. The Ministry also responded very well. In the context of the work process and the processing process in this case, because the European Union's directive is being implemented and developed streamlined for the job, we actually held the same work force as the Ministry and the tax authorities had consulted and repeatedly reviewed this section, and in good cooperation with the committee, the Commission made the changes in this section. As I said, quite a few comments were made at 70 st. in which the change was made that it is not possible to shoot a guilt decision to a higher authority includes an exception from the political principle of advising a higher government decision by charges. The change will finalize the dates of the annual accounts and will not be charged with head tax committees or Ministers. In this context, a certain discrepancy was presented with other laws of the law, which, according to Article 94. a and 94th par. b Unlisted, however, it is stated that the dates submitted by the annual bill are legalized to the head tax Committee and that the annual accounts in accordance with 94.g. I'd like to see a minister. In this context, the Commission points out that administrative laws or principles do not recommend that there be a possibility of launching a administrative decision to a higher authority if a person is able to present the case under a court of full reexamination authority. The committee points out that it is an example in the administration board that decisions on the pressures of government guilty will not be launched to the higher level of government. For example, there is the decisions made by the FDA. It has been since 2006, which was then adopted at the General Assembly for a change in official control of financial activity that the judicial hearings were suspended. The committee does not believe that there is a reason to make a change in the fact that the pressures of administration can be made to the higher administrations because a balance of accounts is not submitted in time. In 1st. a-arms 70. gr. it is made clear that annual accounts are required to place administrative guiltys on those enterprises who are negligent in their obligation to meet their annual accounts or balance accounts. The article also says: ▪ When it comes to timeout according to the 109th grade of par. The annual balance sheet should be submitted to the relevant management sheet at 600,000 dollars. and also requires improvements. Hence, it is clear in the law that the government's finesse will be suspended at the time of the 10th century. It's over. This directive is an example in the north, and such arrangements have increased efficiency and appreciation for the release of cases of government fines. So the committee cannot agree with the view that the interpretation of this law could be a problem. So if not understood, the annual bill may be fined immediately. On the other hand, the committee suggests that due to inadequate return of annual accounts, a decision to be made can be made on the basis of a 3: mg basis. a-arms 70. gr. to the higher authority because there may be opinions - this is a distinction - that can be reconsidered. Sets up the committee to change its content. It was noted that if responsibilities are not altered by 6 mg. a-arms 70. gr. which uses the word "contributions " to describe the superior authorities regardless of whether a crime is committed deliberately or unintentionally, the new expression is incomprehensible. The committee agrees with the view that there is a difference between the bill's proposal and the current law, but it was not intended to change responsibility in this respect and therefore the Commission suggests that this will be extended to d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d-d. g. The committee's attention was also called on in 1st. D- team 70. The bill is suggested that fractures are sufficient to be committed by a simple failure to replace the responsibility of punishment with gross neglect. The committee considers it necessary to be in line with the tax laws and 262 stre. general penalties, in all cases requiring extreme indiscretion as conditions for punishment. Finally, the suggested suggestion was made for Article 123. a valid law, which requires the responsibility of accountants and investigators for violating the law by specified practices, will be removed. It is not defined how or after events to the extent of the specifications of the C-type 70 grams. is intended to replace rules 123. g. current track. In this regard, questions may arise about the impact of the controversial change in terms of the responsibility of accountants and researchers as key figures in violations of annual accounts. The committee proposes a adjustment to meet these views. While it is necessary to bear in mind the proper requirements and requirements for the demonstrations and accountants, the committee does well. Several comments were made to the E- force 70. g. The bill of a direct case to the district attorney. The employment and innovation department made this a special point of view on the request of the Committee. The Commission suggests that a cross-examination of the law is being done by a regional district attorney that is more serious than by a tax investigator to study the law, which is not considered to be too serious to warn 2 mg. Section 262. a general penal law. It is suggested that the head tax panel be found guilty of violations of the law, except for the violation of the investigation and judicial action of the district attorney under 1 mg. Finally, it's 73. ......, the validation principle, in which there is the wrong reference in the legal articles to be carried out immediately as indicated in the comments in this article. Gives the committee a change to correct the situation. Then, on January 1, 2017, the bill was discussed with reference to the execution of the bill, and it was suggested that a value session would be considered at the end of January 1, 2016, due to the start of the account year. This committee calls attention to the context that the directive based on which the bill is being introduced by the bill should be valid for the 2016 annual accounts. The annual accounts are written after the completion of the account year, as well as the terms of this bill are acceptable to societies in the country, focusing on simplicity and clarity. So the committee does not consider it a reason to alter the entry of the entry into force. I'd like to say at the end that the bill is extensive in content and format, but it's just as much about to implement a directive and take care of harmonization in the European Economic Area. There is also a remarkable improvement to the simplicity of professional life and to the majority of the country's members. It is expected to reduce the costs of the management and to improve the general business environment. Because a government service group did a very good job, prepared this case very well, perhaps more cooperation than you are supposed to get used to. The Economic and Business Committee and the Ministry based on this job. I would like to thank them for their good cooperation, as well as the solidarity and much work as possible. The Economic and Business Committee worked on this case. That this is the recommendation and in view of what I have considered, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Under the headings Þórsson. Andersen, Bristor the Brynjar of Níelsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir's daughter, Vilmur Bjarnason, Valtor Bjarnadóttir, and Katrino Jakobsdóttir's Katrín.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u102	Madam President. I recommend to the members of the European Commission advising the proposal for the resolution of an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention on the membership of the Montenegro. This case has been discussed here and submitted by the highest authority. Secretary of state last week. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the State Department of Jörundur Valtýsson and Axel Nikulásson. It was not considered a reason for sending the matter into a traditional narrative, since it was quite clear how this matter is involved. The Parliament's resolution is used to confirm an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention from April 4, 1949, on the part of the Republic of Montenegro made in Brussels and signed on May 19 of the past. In accordance with the terms of the contract, it is valid when all members of the North Atlantic Convention have announced their confirmation of it by the U.S. government, the chairman of the agreement. This process is now taking place at the National Assembly of the Member States of NATO. Subsequently, the Commission will invite the management of the new Member States to become members of the Northern Atlantic Convention. Montenegro described, as we well know at this council, over the independence of June 3, 2006, and became Iceland first to accept the new independent state. It is, therefore, appropriate. The State Department says that after ten years of the event, it all happened. The cooperation of Montenegro with NATO began in the same year as 2009, Montenegro has been involved in the so-called Atlantic Community action programme aimed at helping the applicant state in preparing Member States, but application countries have to meet various political, economic, and military conditions before it can become possible. Then, in December 2015, foreign ministers of the Atlantic Community agreed to invite Montenegro into the alliance, for the State would then have met the conditions of the strategy. The contract for membership was so signed as previously stated in May. The state itself, like traditionally, pays the cost of adjusting its own defense to a coordinated defense system of the Community and is not expected to carry any additional cost from the landing of Montenegro. As this increases in the Member States from 28 to 29 C.E., the Atlantic Community has always emphasized that enlargement will lead to increased stability and security in Europe and further contribute to the democratic development of countries involved in it. More to the oar. A foreign press committee has, as I previously said, discussed the matter at two meetings and agreed to submit it. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir was away from the case, but literature is responsible for this in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Others who are subject to this writing are the one who stands here, Hanna Birna, the daughter of Kristjánsdóttir, and others who are crying. And the men of Karl Garðarsson, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurion, and Elín Hirst, and Óttarr Proppé, and Silja Dögg, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, and Össur, the son of Skarphéðinsson, A representative of the left green member of the Committee did not sign an opinion, returning a special minority.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u103	Madam President. I recommend the Committee's members from my part of the State Department as a result of a proposal for the resolution of an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention on the membership of the Montenegro. One of the biggest failures in the recent decades of foreign affairs took place at the end of the Cold War in 1989 when it was decided to prolong the lives of the Atlantic Union rather than let it go the same way as the other postwar alliance, the Warsaw Alliance. There was a loss of opportunity to build a new system of systems that contributed to democracy, peace, and stability in Europe. On the other hand, strong interests helped to overcome the loss of the European Union when the alleged opponent was no longer present. There, the manufacturer's great interest is that the coalition within its series of many of the world's largest weapons - producing countries and places rich obligations on its members on the provision of arms and military contributions. The expansion policy of the Eastern European Union has disturbed the stability of Europe. It is undisputed that Russia believes that its safety is threatened by armedisation against its borders and the setting up of the missile control system of the Atlantic Community. There has again been water on the mill of national political political political powers in Russia. Thus, Eastern European instability is written on the Russian government, on the Atlantic Community, and on its behalf. Shortly before the turn of the century, the Atlantic Union changed its course in that it is increasingly using itself outside its borders. These include direct and indirect participation in wars and scissors in Africa and Asia. The consequences of these components have been frightening to the inhabitants of the countries and have contributed largely to the world's modern - day refugee wave. A member of the State Department of Foreign Affairs courts the left movement's policy that the Atlantic Union is a significant threat to world safety and peace. Iceland's interests would be best paid with an immediate resignation from the coalition. Similarly, further expansion of the Community can be a positive step in European security. It may, in fact, be totally in between parts that it is Montenegro in this case. It is not the entrance of Montenegro per se that we oppose but simply the expansion of NATO. Peace, stability, and security are more likely to be maintained in the world by promoting such institutions as the European Security and Cooperation Organization, OSE, and by the reorganising United Nations Security Council. In this regard, members of Parliament's left movement, like previous cases about the expansion of NATO at the General Assembly, will be sitting by the side of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For her speech, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir. Of course, it reiterates the position that the left movement has had since its beginning, fighting the involvement of Iceland into the Atlantic Community. I respect that view, even though I do not agree with it. I view our participation in the activities of the Atlantic Community as important, both for our own safety and for our own safety and stability contributions in Europe. In the same way, I do not fully understand why the left movement is offering a green one, so that countries that for years have sought membership in the coalition. NATO has not been a closed club but has been open to new member states. The fact is that many Eastern countries have felt that it was extremely important for their security interests to be involved in the Community and have therefore gone through a hard time getting in there. I believe that even though the left movement ◯ green supply may have its place on perfectly honest and good grounds for Iceland to stand outside the Atlantic Community, I find it totally unnecessary to comment on the fact that other countries, as I say, have taken it very hard for years to get involved in the alliance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u105	Madam President. As I mentioned in my speech, in addition to being opposed to our Icelanders to the Atlantic Alliance, we do not feel that this is a step towards a peaceful world to expand our alliance. As I said in my speech, it's about us sitting next to the case not about us being against the Montenegro per se, but about our stand that we're against the enlargement of the alliance. We do not consider that a good step toward peace. With the exact same argument, when Croatia and Albania entered the Atlantic Union and was grown, I think it was more than 2008. It was not because of some hostility toward Croatia and Albania but because of our princely stand on the matter. That's why we're sitting next to the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u106	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to object to any explanation. A senator makes his own stand and his position in these matters. I just want to stress that, despite the fact that the Atlantic Union was an open alliance and not a closed club, the arrival or membership of new member states has been a long consequence and has been rooted in the pursuit of the state's entrance, have felt that it was important, as I said, according to their security concerns, because they want to be active participants in the cooperation of Western countries. In this respect, the principle has not descended from the Atlantic alliance, and it has been more difficult to do so. There have been conditions and requirements before new Member States are accepted. When we talk about the expansion of the Atlantic Community, we need to keep in mind the source of that initiative. This is because countries that feel that their position is not secure in some way that their security is best protected by involvement in the alliance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u107	Madam President. This has been observed more than once and twice in discussions in this council hall clearly to the point of our view and viewpoint. paritaprevir The year's son Ármannsson is about how the defense and security of our people as well as of the world's nations will be most secure. In this regard, we simply disagree and work at what we consider to be the best, in very different ways. Of course, I continue to believe that it is for the world's benefit when it comes to security and peace that we are working to reduce military and military operations by all means. Part of it is to unwind and then simply put down alliances, such as the Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u108	Madam President. The United States is very supportive of this case with great force and conviction. I personally believe accepting this proposal is a step forward. There are two things that make it so special. First, I believe that the self - determination rights of the nations are above all doubt and are fundamentally right. Black stragglers have chosen their lot for themselves. They believe that their security and sovereignty are better off within the Atlantic Community than are outside. They see in it a firm trust and a sponsor that could be more beneficial than none if the continent had a point pointed. It has often been less critical than it is now. I completely understand their attitude. The lack of peace in Europe has been caused by conflicts in the Balkans, and unfortunately, the trend in our life course is seen here and is present today that there seems to be little letup in the process of considerable turmoil. Black stragglers believe that their future is better off within the center of an Atlantic alliance than outside. That's their right. They've applied. They've met the requirements. I think that all I can do is fulfill their wishes. Similarly, Icelanders have always supported the so - called presidents by permission, the US Alliance, i.e. that its gates must exist open kingdoms that meet the requirements. Second, I believe that as much as I would like to see a world where no defensive law was needed, the world has evolved in all recent years that we are turning away from peace but for peace. We'll see that there's been a change in the continent. There are wars and conflicts on both sides of it. We can also see that those whom we have often viewed as a potential source of life - threatening damage to one's knees to a much greater degree than before. It takes no more than looking to Ukraine and reviewing the sequence of events that exists there in order to become somewhat suspicious of the genuine will of all European nations to maintain peace. It could be defined in two terms by Ukraine, the one related to Crime, the one related to eastern Ukraine. Let's go with Crime. Although I believe that the Russians are lawless, there are many even in this hall who believe that there is evidence to support their conduct there. The evidence has been given in this discourse. I'm not gonna slow down by crossing them. Still, it is clear that their conduct in eastern Ukraine provides the highest reason for fear of some nearby countries. I also remember that I have at least one through my ethic always supported the suggestions here on the expansion of the Atlantic Community. It was particularly controversial in the '80s when three states, i.e. The Baltic States, applied for membership in the alliance. It was likely to scare Russians, and it was likely that they would rather fight the continent, reducing the odds of peace. At that time, many northern nations had a different view than we did with Iceland. At the General Assembly, everyone outside the U.S. council was obliged to agree to that proposal. Icelandic peers cut themselves out in that way so that they did not follow the Norwegian peers. We went further than they or were earlier in agreeing that the Baltic nations had their rights within the coalition. How has history played our decision that supported them? Today, in Europe, no one has to go to the point that if the Baltic nations were not part of NATO if they were not protected from 5. The covenant, it would be their position, much more uncertain today. If we look at what the Russians have done in East Ukraine, where they've adopted a new kind of war, a kind of shadow war, since they've apparently been testing endurance in Article 5. I believe that if the three Baltic nations did not use the security of protection. Gr., their future would be much less uncertain, and no one could deny that they would be completely safe with the developments that exist. I feel like the world is the way it looks. In view of this, I understand this very well, that small countries that have faced many severe conflicts in their careers as an independent nation, as well as independent nations, look for the way the Baltic nations did in their time, and we did much earlier, i.e. Try to be self - conscious of the protection contained in Article 5. The covenant. That's why I say that, I think that it's the right of Blacks to apply, they've taken advantage of that right. The Alliance has put them through all kinds of exertions and advances to see if they are qualified to be part of the alliance. The conclusion is: They measure up. They have expressed irrefutable will to be part of the alliance. It's kind of ridiculous if the Icelanders were to resist it. That is why I strongly support the approval of the proposal. I'm not going to say a lot of things about that speech. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir moved earlier. She has the perfect right to have her own opinions. It may well be accepted that it is desirable that the world does not need protection laws. But in short, most of the arguments I felt that I presented earlier were completely incompatible. This suggestion shows that the Icelanders are still on the side of small nations, respecting the rights of small nations to make whatever decision they themselves choose to make in order to have a future they consider ideal and successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u109	A respectable president. I was waiting to ask for the word because I thought that some of the couriers of this proposal would proceed in a later discussion. The matter seems urgent because it is being taken here by the council in less than a week. It was taken from a board of directors and surveillance on Thursday, and then it was discussed on Tuesday as if it were a serious matter, which would have to be concluded as soon as possible. But it's not, and then it's over here. without visiting a management and monitoring committee, without any visitors being called on, without being on the scene at the time of the event. As noted in this case, a study of 13 - year - old languages has been conducted that are well established. It starts with - showing what the Council is in a strange position - that it is a dark man who meets with an agent of the Council with rebukes, innuendo, and thoughts about the possibility that something has happened 13 years ago that needs investigation. As a result, the agent of the Generals writes a report, attends a meeting of the administrative and surveillance committee, and the Commission as a whole decides to propose it to start an investigation. This is a matter of investigating foreign participation in purchases at 45.8% of property shares in Iceland's Bank 13 years ago. In this way, a respectable president, there is a great deal of senators on this matter when this was done, including. A request from the chairman of the Commission and Control Committee, why. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, who sent a written inquiry to the then secretary of business on this point. I was last reading that yesterday. The request is very thorough and as good as the answer. paritaprevir For example, in 2006, the count of Jónasson's countless data published by the state retrospective and can be found on the home page of the 2006 National Review tab. It is a little strange, then, that now 13 years after those events, of course, only ten years after the incident. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson was answered to his inquiries, in order that this matter be brought into the council under his leadership as director of the Board of Directors and Control. This is very strange, especially in view of the nature of the problem. paritaprevir The father of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson was a minister during his last term. For some years, I have tried to conduct a private study of the second bank development, which I received yesterday. But unfortunately, I'm not in the right group of friends here at the Assembly Hall because this proposal was directed to the management and surveillance committee, but this proposal has come to the council for release; it's very strange. It is logical to conclude that this matter is under way, i.e. that this special study is based on a proposal adopted here at the council in 2012 to start one more study of the personal development of the banks of the first. This has not been accomplished because we have experience in research committees, in terms of the scope and funding of the study committees. However, when the vote is examined, it is very strange that it appears that this is the case at the General Assembly of Iceland, which is not recognized in neighboring countries, that such studies are used for political purposes. I told a Senate speech yesterday that this study proposal had been adopted with only 28 votes. But that's not true. As I began to look into the matter further, I could see that this investigation was adopted only by 24 votes. The members of Parliament who were to agree with that investigation are still in good condition. Councilmen Páll Árnason, Hjörvar, Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Oddný Harðardóttir Hardydótir J. Sigfússon, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. Other members of the council have been elected, elected out, or abandoned for normal reasons, but there are only seven members of the council who now agreed to this proposal in 2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u110	Some of them did not accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u111	Some of them - thank you, my dear. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson - didn't accept it. I was going to be able to guess this later, that there were, fortunately, some members of the council who did not accept it, did not vote, had distance, or were away. But there was no one who trusted to vote against this in his day. This is the reality, a respectable president, we face. A small percentage of members of Parliament may request a large investigation of events in this community, a small percentage of members of Parliament. I've been talking about at least that. The majority of members of Congress who would have to give such a vote, so I don't talk about it being more important, because there's no risk of being use of political power to recover from their political opponents. It's amazing, when I put up that attitude here in a talk earlier this week, one of the rages. A senator is very unhappy about this. Who would that senator have been? Yeah, yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke of it as a total firrier, and that shouldn't be necessary. I'm just throwing this out because the Council's resolution proposal now being discussed is based on this 2012 approval of the council. It's very strange that the council should be involved in this sort of thing, not to refer to the U.S. Marshal, who has all the authority to investigate and can start an independent investigation if he seems to need it, and if he has any suggestions on this. He has the privilege of taking part in the research program, as we know. However, this led to the presence of a mystery officer of the Generals and led to the announcement of the Generals' agent to a meeting of the Board of Directors and Overseers. paritaprevir The 100 - year - old son of Jónasson had a large report that suggested that this study be conducted; a very strange, respectable president. This body of Congress proposal is about the most researched case in Iceland, likely from a republican institution. In 2006, a person in this society now attending a council went ill. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who was large in the media, had certain claims and debates about the idea that something had been abnormal in this case. As a result, a national accountant, Sigurður Þórðarson, made a major investigation of the case to investigate it, called out to him, gave an opportunity to produce data; natural professional practice. They can, as I said before, be found on the website of a state-researcher under the tab ◯URT. That is in three areas: First, the answer to Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son's claims, or rather an answer, is that nothing abnormal had been found. There are also two other locations where you can find the accompanying documents, which are 46 more dignified presidents. 46 documents of this study were published, and it was found that nothing unusual was there. After that, he sends a sledgehammer. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's query to the secretary of business, who was built in similar matters and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's inquiry. It stated that nothing unnatural had been found. But that's obviously not enough. In the General Assembly of the Research Committee of the International Council, by Tryggvi Gunnarsson, U.S.A., one of the three members of the Committee was studied in the personal development of the banks of the past, natural, because the research committee had far - reaching sources, even when included in criminal cases. In VI. chapter 7 shows the results of that study, on page 71. There was nothing unnatural there, either. It is therefore a little strange that the Allied agent, who is supposed to be a man blameless -- inconspicuous against political politics, inconspicuous to popular masquerade - should suggest this investigation, in fact, an investigation into his investigation of the fall of the banks. That's a very strange situation in a democratic society. It might have been better to believe that the dark man who presented this information to the Generalist who had only surrendered himself to the chairman of the Board of Directors and Controls Committee. Maybe it's just the same guy. What do I know? There's nothing to know. I've called to find out who this mystery man is, who has proposed this investigation. It's a secret. When I asked that the administrative and monitoring committee why a board and a board of directors would not know who the mystery officer was talking to the General agent about the need to tighten the law of the informers. Where are we going, dear President? Where are we going, when things are like this? In what way are we as the Allied Council that there can be a benefit somewhere in town, an investigation, and it is here for five days in the General Assembly, and a release to start an investigation? What model is being set here, a respectable president? Why does this get into the council so easily, some pimps from a mystery man in the city? What's going on here, Mr. Honorable President? This seems to me to have been the misuse of all the agencies of the Generals, from the agency, from the Board of Directors and Controls, the Parliament itself, the Parliament itself, members of Congress, by giving this vote. Is it this kind of community we want to live in? I'm saying this in view of the fact that I've been fighting for five years to get through an Allied investigation of the private development of the second bank. What buttercup is this thing that's being passed on to the members of Congress? [[Up front.]] Why is this being done? Fortunately, a respectable president failed to point out the raw skin of this council, that there is no way to start an investigation into the privateization of the bank of the second in the last government in which power was abused, the state's treasure put in jeopardy, and other things that hopefully take place during the summer day -- that is, taking up here an antiquenium that happened 13 years ago. Everyone must see that power is being abused here. I'm sorry about the location of the General Assembly this time. And the best thing to do is that you can't even point out the cause. I've called for knowing exactly what to investigate. Then it's just a secret, and no one seems to know it, it's hard to find a needle in a haystack in such a case and whatever it is to investigate. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Nobody knows what to investigate. Yet, a committee in which one person is seated should be appointed to proceed again in this matter. What's with all this foolishness, Mr. Honorable President? Why can't members of the Parliament be informed of what is unsearched in this matter that has to do with the property of these agents in Iceland's Burging Bank? Why can't you say that? Why this hide-and-seek? What should this one man who orders this NTSB to investigate? The person has no idea unless there are some background information, even false cause. What do I know, since it can't be published here in the Senate document or told the members of Congress what to investigate? This decree is based on coverts, so that no more is said, even lies, of a mystery man in a town. And the Allied Congress of Iceland is about to agree to it. What example does this provide for the future, a respectable president? If a senator or a member of Congress thinks of accusing someone in the community and is able to provide the support of members of the Parliament who even sit with a political officer or a government officer, then an investigation can be taken advantage of by the General Assembly. Did we not learn of any of the Har - Magedon, a respectable president, where innocent men were unjustly imprisoned for the political persecution of the left? [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Wasn't there something to learn from the Mership case, a respectable president? I thought that the nation had been in sufficient violations after that case, for example. But this is where it's been pulled up. Probably the same characters and players, all the way to the charge seat. That's just the way it is, a respectable president. I am very sorry for this matter, and I apologize on behalf of the council as a senator that people in the community can be followed out over the grave and death. Out of the grave and death, with all due respect for the dead and who have sat here in the council and given all the good work for the country. Here we are, senators, with a similar suggestion while the pink elephant in the living room, the big case that needs to be discussed, stands cool and is not to be discussed, i.e. The second is the privatization of the banks. This is a sad case, perhaps showing where the Allied Council of Iceland is, where we are in a place of trust in the community, that the Allied Council of Iceland itself should be researched on a 13 - year - old case, showing where we are at. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President. However, here they are streaming to the hall, and soon there will be a vote. Let's see how the votes fall, but it's strange that the case of this sort should be brought here for a final payment without any visit to the management and monitoring committee, without considering the agents who have been involved in the investigation, without hearing their point of view. In the community, sober people who have done their best to inform the situation do not even have the opportunity to come and explain their cause or to go because the matter is so fast throughout the council that if it is not accepted, anything could be made worse. It's part of a council stop that I don't understand. What about the persons who served at the 2006 State accountant's office, why is it not possible for them to appear before the committee and explain their own issues and explain with the authorities the details of this investigation and how the result was obtained, if nothing was wrong? But it may be indistinguishable that the person who puts this up on a board of administration and surveillance committee is the Alleglers' agent, Tryggvi Gunnarsson, who served on the General Committee to investigate the causes of the fall of the Icelandic banks; he pronounces this. How incomprehensible it is that he did not promote these views that he knew about them! Perhaps it would have been no good for the committee to bring him to his meeting because he holds this matter from this mystery man and is not informed what to investigate. A terrible situation for the Allied Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u112	Madam President. I don't know if that senator was. paritaprevir In fact, Vigdís Hauksdóttir directed her speech to represent her challenge here in the preceding part of the talk without answering it. Let's talk about it. The senator was quite remarkable. I believe that there is no other way than to review her right here after a day in the talks of those interested in these matters. I have a few simple questions this time. Senator. The first question is: Is it against the investigation proposed by an agent? Second, is she telling us that an agent is abusing a administrative and surveillance committee? Third, does it believe that the cause of this study is political and escapes the tears of other political parties to blacken the forward party?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for coming up here and answering me. It should be informed that when the vote for an investigation of the previous privatization took place in 2012, a respectable senator was absent. I was here at the council hall, and I didn't vote for this and remind you that there were only 24 senators who voted by this investigation. Seven of them sit at a council, and for the second time, I'm going to read them out: it's easy. Councilmen Páll Árnason, Hjörvar, Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Oddný Harðardóttir Hardydótir J. Sigfússon, and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. Others have fallen away, have not been elected in the last election, or have quit for other reasons. Three questions were raised here. First, I was asked if I was opposed to this investigation. Of course not! But I want to investigate the privatization of the second banks at the same time. As far as I'm concerned, after what I've read, the case is fully informed and all study factors are light and have finished the study. But if the senators want to spend the tax of the people in such a way as to do one more test of the privatization of the previous banks, then that must be, I follow more of it. Second, I wondered if I thought of the abuse of power as an agent of the Generals. In some respects, it may be said that there is at least a gray area in which a member of the Parliament carried unexplained demands from a mystery man in town that something has gone wrong in the study, especially in view of the fact that the agent himself was sitting on the General Commission on the conduct and cause of falling the Icelandic banks; it's very strange that this should come from him. [[The president calls.]] The third question, Honorable President, I must answer in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u114	Madam President. Just to review it before the Reich and what. The third question was, Count a why. A senator's argument is that the investigation is based on the view that men are trying to bring a political blow to the forward party? I ask because I thought it was a problem. A senator speaks in this way. But sir faithful, what should members of Congress do when the U.S. Marshal of the Council, one of the council's Subcommittee, sends her a written statement, argument, not very clear but still feels the need to look at certain things; that he has data that he believes may be able to inform about events that occurred 13 years ago; should the committee reject it? How in the name of a board of administration and monitoring committee to refuse such a request? I'd also like to make it very clear that after we agreed on a bill last week on the research committees, the President of the Generalis has agreed with its institutions, a great deal of power to limit the magnitude of such tests. Hv. A senator asks: Should we once again spend a lot of money studying a well - researched case? The answer is: No, because we have the President of the Generals who will draw up what is right to study. I just want to say it because of this proposal as a matter. A senator is so concerned: Has it been shown that the council would resist being examined if there is evidence to do so? Isn't that what's going to be considered in the management and monitoring committee? I don't think that in any way the council objected. So I'll just say for my part, I won't violate it if that's the conclusion of the Senate President and the Board of Directors and the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u115	A respectable president. It's nice to have a blood brother. paritaprevir The counties of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson answer to me, for they have spent quite a long time in the council knowing the political fox very well. I'm not going to evaluate whether this council-sense proposal here is a political attack against the forwarding party. But I've studied it in my case, and I've reasoned that research conducted by the General should be well prepared that political opponents cannot recover. Then people can read it into what I'm saying about it. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Aphphéinson's Skarphéðinsson gripped the word "Lord of truth " or" Lord of Guð " or something like that; the emissary's agent has all the power and money to take part in voluntary research.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u116	No, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u117	Here's what's screaming. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson up ahead, apparently had a really good study.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u118	I participated in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u119	Was a what? When it was decided to submit this synonym, perhaps a senator may be involved in the Šskuske game? I'm just asking. I'm just asking, because if the U.S. Marshal finds out anything, he's got all the authority he can get into the initiative checks about the others and these matters. But here it is decided to bring this into the council and investigate it here. On the latter part answer to the senator's decision whether I have anything to do with whether members of Congress are not available to study the privateization of the second bank accounts, it is to say that I proposed such a proposal when the privatization of the first was adopted, a change proposal, that such a study be made. What did a world of Congress do during its last term? Of course, the adjustment was made, for he did not charge it, just as it is now necessary to investigate what happened in 2009 when the banks were handed over to demanding officers overnight without an invitation or without any items, without a personal employment commission or nothing. [[The president calls.]] That's up to that, a respectable president. That's where the money is. There we are talking about hundreds of billions, not just a few billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u120	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir spoke in advance of a citizen who felt that in this case it was quite clear that the intended buyer was not the one who was given up. She was carrying this civilian by name, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, that he'd gone with pimps. Now, this citizen, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, may be the one standing here. Ten years ago, I produced data that went to a government accountant on this matter, and it wasn't innuendo. I've never spoken in this case, and I'd like it to be at least I have a table for my head. I've never done sobriety in this case, I simply said that the buyer cannot be the buyer. And I want to prove what's true for this citizen, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. [[Suggested: Apology request.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u121	A respectable president. This is a vote for the intervention of this very small percentage available, 5% of all resources within the dinner system. Of course, it's too small. This is yet another painful confirmation of how ridiculous and unacceptable this greeting system we live in. I just can't make my conscience out of this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u122	A respectable president. I want to come up here and explain my vote. I'll sign the committee in a moment's notice. In the bright future, we agree with the way this process is being handled, but I would like to say that pots can be revised in various kinds, on the basis of regionalism, and on the basis of building forces. We want to keep in mind the need for something more than simply to throw cod values into various settlements to support them. It's fine as far as it goes, but we need to come up with an overall review. In fact, it was started by a panel committee, but we did not succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u123	A respectable president. I think it's right that I account for my vote on this matter. I've been worried about this bill for a long time. My concerns focus, not on the welfare of someone in need, but on the well - being of those who need it at least. I would like the Ministry of Health to pay close attention to the fact that this law might lead to higher rents so that landlords will be those who have the best of these mortgages. I'm confident that by keeping track of this, I will pay for this vote. I want the attitude to rest in the press.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u124	A respectable president. I still want to come here again and thank the welfare committee for her hard work on this matter. This is the other half of the big changes we're making in the position of those who have mentioned from hand to hand in rent. However, the house - to - house services cover a larger group. We are also thinking of tenants in a public tenet, so this is not just a matter of support to those who will live in public apartments but, rather, of the broader definition of this bill. As discussed in the discussion, we also remember that not just a number of children but a number of members of the household are being looked at, so that the child will be 18 years old is not to change the family situation. Whether they have custody or not, we are evening our parents'position, thus facing the transformation of our community as well as the lives of families. This bill contains a number of good changes, and once again I thank the chairman of the case, Lára Arnardóttir, and the others involved in the case before they entered the council very much for this work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u125	A respectable president. I strongly agree that this proposal will be adopted at the Council today. Iceland, such as Montenegro, is expected to be with smaller countries. Blackfalls have passed the tests and conditions established by the Atlantic Community and then the Black Cathedral 29th State in NATO, which I believe will lead to increased stability and security in Europe and further contributes to democratic development.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u126	Madam President. On this occasion, I would like to adjust the direction of the left movement to a green bid that the Atlantic Union is a real threat to world peace and security. It cannot be seen that further expansion of the Community can be a positive step in the security of Europe or the rest of the world if this is being divided. There is a reference to this position by which members of the Parliament's left movement will sit next to the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u127	A respectable president. How happy we are that we are going to vote on this proposal! Since November 2012, there has been a resolution by the General on the investigation of the privateisation of the banks. We've been received by a board of administrations and monitoring committees to give credible evidence that further information may be available on these sales. It is vital that we move on with each stone in that matter. We must learn from the disaster that took place there. In the years that follow, the sale of the Kingdom will be great. If we are not fully aware of these developments and the dangers they may involve, we can make a number of mistakes to the sale of public possessions in the future, so it is very important that we continue this investigation and turn each stone around.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-124.u128	A respectable president. I'll agree that every rock needs to be rolled about the privatization of the banks. This is an investigation into sales and privatization of the previous banks. The advance party and I support it, especially in view of the expectations that the second bank will soon be considered. There, however, many stones are still to be rolled over and looked at what was behind when the banks were handed over to demanding rulers in the last season of one night without any personal or professional views. I reiterate, a respectable president, that I support this proposal with the hope that a body of Congress will soon be able to study the privateization of the later banks because I spoke for myself that two of them could be examined together. Now A has been told in this case, investigating the previous privatization one more time, and then I hope the other study will start too soon. [[The president calls.]]
