ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u1	Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the House of Booths to Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. 1st. That's the north side. "I can't be a member of Congress anytime soon. So last night, a replacement of the forward party's list of districts, Bogi's Hafliðason. Bogi of Hafliðason, a member of the General Assembly, is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u2	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1037, of the money transfers and tax pay of aluminium companies, from the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir Jacobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u3	A respectable president. I needed to be told more than once, and more than twice. A prime minister would have been meeting with the government this morning - and there would be no news. No date for the election. Why is this? Have they not had the weekend to review any important issues that the government is going to complete and can set down dates to have it nailed? Does this government not realize that the public and the government have rather poor experience in trusting in this government when they claim that they intend to maintain national or elections? It's not very good, so I'm going to let it all slide, a fine record, a respectable president, in that regard. We want a date on when an election will be held. It's not enough to react to a situation created in society by saying: "Yes, we're going to choose sooner, but we're just going to get our whole business done in one dust before it's done, and we'll just see how the government situation works. There's no way. Dates of these elections, please, and then we can talk about what cases we have to complete for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u4	A respectable president. When does the Icelandic people get to vote for the Generals? We need to answer that question. Government leaders have promised that it will be chosen in the fall, but they desire to name a date. We have experience with these agents that they have previously promised a vote for, for example, the European Union that has not been followed. For us to continue at the council, we need to know for sure what day the Icelandic nation will be able to vote. That doesn't mean it's one of the private elements of two parties, tops. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister, or two categories. There's something about everyone in this community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u5	Mr. President. There are 22 meeting days left behind by the General Assembly and, of course, with all unacceptableness for the International Parliament to be placed in the position that the 38 members of the board have announced to us that it will be chosen earlier, that it will be chosen in the fall, but then there will be no more for the timing of the election, nor will there be any more of the cases that the government groups believe so important that it is not to vote in spring, as we did in the government stand before the weekend and were killed. I would have thought that most natural. I would have thought it most natural that we had agreed on that proposal and that it would have been a campaign campaign in spring. It was then the clear will of the government to speed up elections and not so much, it would be in the fall, but the government has not used the time to settle the issues that have been listed here to be so important that it has to be completed. We're no closer to them. [[The president calls.]] We're no closer to timing. That's an unacceptable position for the Council, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u6	A respectable president. I agree with those who make comments that we are now meeting for the dramatic events that took place last week without having a date for the election and contract of the new government that had a facelift at the end of the last week. That promise was made to the public, and it does not mean threatening the opposition to government. paritaprevir The last time we checked was Jón Gunnarsson because of a date of elections. There is no threat to government opposition in this regard. The promise was made to the common people. The public has the right to know when to vote. But the Senate has a right to do that too, because if we are to take part in the field service and to do congregational work normally, it is of course the least possible subject to the program. It is reasonable, a normal requirement for a date to be at least given up, that is not going to be an election immediately, but there is no evidence to suggest that they have thought about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u7	A respectable president. Last week's famous night said the highest. Secretary of finance in the stairway that one of the polls is to be cut. This means that it should be adopted mid - September, since the last assembly in the election season is the next winter. That's how I understood the most. Secretary of finance. Since then, land has been drawn over and over again. These timings are being disturbed, and threats from individual government council members to government opposition are being received. It can't be done if the expedition is about to start building trust, start by saying something, and then betraying it, and start by saying something and then entering threats and conditions. Just bring this timeline and let's get back to work. Why are you doing this? Why can't humans simply say when to vote? Then we can keep going.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u8	Mr. President. It is good for a new prime minister to offer the opposition to the government, but it is even worse that nothing came out of that meeting, exactly nothing, not a date of elections, not even a first date of priorities. In other words, Mr. President, the government that considered it so irreverently important that it continued for a few months in the unsatisfied nation, knows nothing about what it wanted. She hasn't had the weekend and yesterday to figure it out, so nothing came out. I think the highest. Surely our president would be troubled for this time, or I would be in his place. The Allied plan is in complete agitation, and it is pointless or pointless to start work on committees because the committees do not know what to do. I can take a welfare committee as an example that has an enormous stratosphere of large issues, a clear point that it is not realistic to handle only one or two of them which should be the case? We need some lines on this. Mr. President. The wisest thing is now, and it would be most popular to give the council a day off for two, three days so that the government can do their homework. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u9	President. I'm going to let me look for President by calling in the election day information. As matters are now, all we have is the Constitution of the Government that has departed, the Constitution of the Government of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who has departed. There is another government, and what is the Constitution of that government? What is the Constitution of the Government Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson? The committees have an assignment, and the committees are working, and what priorities are they going to take? What issue should be stressed? How are we to work at the Allied Council of Iceland when the priority is unknown? We know the government's out. We know she's completely flooded. There's some virtual government working now. We need to know what this is about. We need to know when it's set. And the President has to be with us, General, by joining us in bringing up the day of the ballast and the day of the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u10	President. I cannot help but agree with my friends who have spoken. Of course, it is not possible to have such a state of complete uncertainty, not only in a chamber but also in the community. There's no fixed date yet. We have the highest promise. Prime Minister, there was no representative from the Independence Party at this meeting. As a result, a commonly known category-based cross-cutting form of the power chairs is subject to a delay in the events mentioned at the meeting. We are in great danger of getting no information about when to interrupt a council. Sadly, there does not seem to be any proper perspective or direction with this government, for the government does not know which subjects it would like to emphasize. That's not an option, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u11	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin by wondering if Mr. President would consider setting up a meeting under these circumstances. Let's think about what the situation is. It's because Iceland enjoys the questionable position that three Ministers from the government, which crashed away, owned property in taxes during a period of time. Two still sit in the government, the second personally the secretary of finance who took property as a tax aid. The public's scrawl is clear. We've been protesting for days here, tops. President, and immediately demand an election. New Prime Minister, highest. The prime minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson - yes, he held a meeting with the opposition, but he could not give the answers. I don't think we have a meeting option here, Mr. President, as long as a date for the election is not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u12	V.E.G. President. After the declarations made by the highest power. Economic and economic ministers here on the stairway to vote in the fall for the nation's approval that there will be a date for the election. The efforts of the people who have been here in the East have been that they should choose immediately. It was also a requirement for the government opposition, which was made up of a greater part of the council, so it is now time that this government must only keep its word and make a date. That's what I think is the main thing. It's for the people. Then there is also a practical point on our work ethic here on the basis of how we should conduct these matters. We can't get anything wrong with it until the date of the election is in place. That's why I want it to be directed to the highest. Mr President that he assists the council to get these matters clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u13	A respectable president. It's as if there's a bit of a familiar Icelandic situation where people go on a lot of writing and then not quite remember the next day what they said. There was a lot going on here last week, and I feel like the government groups are waking up a little thin and remembering what they said. Wait, did we talk about some important stuff? What did I mean by that? Did I really say it should be chosen? Yeah, they said things here in the middle of running last week, and they were important. They were very understandable and logical, to say everything that had to be chosen. Sure, yeah, I'm sure there's a matter to be finished before it's chosen. But is it really so that during the last week, the Ministers didn't know what they were talking about? It is now spoken of building trust, but humans cannot even answer when that ideal day will be. When will it be chosen? What was the point? What's the issue that needs to be done immediately before elections? [[The president calls.]] These are obvious questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u14	Mr. President. So far now, a measure of pride has marked the government that has taken place over the last three years. To say again and again, in spite of new presidents in the Ministry of Presidency, that no one can handle certain matters unless these categories have to remain stable in order to make a show of the country - the stability is no more than that of banks and bears on toils in the Middle East regularly. That's not possible. The requirement was not to continue with the government. Rather, the people wanted an election immediately. That is what much of the nation has been talking about on the east and east, west, north. That is against more than in the East. I have to say, sire President, that even though some representatives of the government had a stretching concept, we cannot misunderstand the nation that stands out here day after day or part of it and say, "We want to vote right now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u15	A respectable president. During the last week, there was a wealth of demand that the prime minister be removed, and that was what he did last week. But there was also a full willingness that the current government groups, forwards, and independent groups, who have more than 38 members of the council, continue and completed the major work being done. One of these projects is on the schedule here today. A respectable president. V.E.G. Prime Minister Ingi Jóhannsson had a meeting with the government's stand for lunch, including reviewing these matters and stressing the importance of the issues the government was going to bring. That would be so, and we would have more than 38 people here at the council. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, a respectable president - there is so much stress in the government situation that you don't get peace to talk. [[Up front.]] However, it is quite clear that it is also possible to choose sooner and end these cases. That's what's set up. What's most surprising here is this irritability of government opposition. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] When I'm at the highest. Prime Minister Ingi Jóhannsson has spoken to the government's opposition and is trying to look for ways to harmonize views of that climate with intense irritation and frustration. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. We have nothing to do with going to the programs before this meeting. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u16	Mr. President. After the scandalous last week, after the violin and the flags and promises to speed up elections, that is a reasonable requirement. The senators and the public in the country will see that their election day is set down. I would have thought it was the highest. The prime minister who steps in a different direction than the person who has just walked away and calls out to him the opposition to discuss matters would also see the importance of working at the council and for the success of the important issues we don't know who we are, that the election day would be set, and then we would arrange our work into the frame of time. After a word. A member of the Parliament, the head of Congress, brings up questions: Wait, may it be that people are still posing themselves not to vote in the fall but only to see this way in which 38 people might get more involved in the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u17	A respectable president. Clearly, in the autumn, as expected, an immediate attempt to reduce the rate of elections is in progress. Hv. A senator comes here and says that we are now working to conform the views of finishing things and keeping elections in the fall. That's how it makes the tone. The credibility of this greater part of holding elections and votes is not very high. National law on the EU was not covered. National regulations for the change of constitution with the Presidential election were not implemented at the same time and was the only justification for the cursed 40% threshold in the temporary constitution of a change. The largest protests from Iceland were here on the outside, and an election was immediately demanded. That was a very clear message. V.E.G. the preeminent for the election was self - seeking for assembly divisions and elections. V.E.G. There was a minister of finance for that. Hv. it was a conflict of government. You can't even determine when they're going to vote for this credibility. A respectable president. It is difficult to find words to describe the confusion here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u18	Mr. President. This new government is right from the very first day of confidence. You can't believe anything that comes from the highest level. legislators or diplomats. It's all floating. You would have thought that it would be the first work of the government, after this weekend, at the beginning of this week, to put the card on the table how it intends to carry out the important tasks that she thinks it is on its own, that there are a definition of those important matters. But it isn't. It's called a coffee-seat and photo shoot, like barbering babies. That's not what they're calling for. It's called after one man's word and brings something to the table; whether we like it or not, that it will be chosen in the fall rather than in the spring, as we would like it to be at least the government will follow its own word and bring in some plan. [[The president calls.]] No, no, no. Just be happy and happy that this marvelous government, however, has come to power.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u19	A respectable president. I can't take it anymore. ... anticoagulation. I was in the same situation during my last term when the national justice minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, was judged - or opposed to equality, when the invaliding of the ákvörðun Svandís the Bayvarddótir was confirmed in 2011 in the Supreme Court - the Southern District of the South. [[Up front.]] Neither of these ministers apologized for anything or anything; however, the law broke. You can disagree about a position you have, and I'm not gonna stand here and measure for your societies, far from, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] The last government was also in charge of government despite the rejection of the Supreme Court. Then there are the same people and they speak here as if the sacred beast were no part of the world - and the ruler of the Church of Pirata, who sends his own people so tones to clean up, stands here like a holy cow, and tells others what to do. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] A respectable president. This is ridiculous. [[Up front.]] No, I don't want to... [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u20	It was supposed to try to let him go. 11th. Smoke. So, Óttar of Proppér, in a speech chair if the senators give him a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u21	A respectable president. We are in an unprecedented place in Icelandic politics. The last few weeks and days have remarkable weather. We at the governor's stand made a proposal last week for elections right in the beat to the loud voices of the public. This proposal was made at the council on Friday, with a greater portion of the administrations. It is very important that we get as soon as possible to see the date of elections in the fall. We must not forget that elections are not for us, the politicians of the Council. They don't allow elections for political parties. They are the way of the public to make their mark on Icelandic politics. We owe the public this date, not the government position.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u22	President. Now it is to continue to find excuses to betray the promise, not to the government, but to the nation, the promise of a new election, the completion of this council, and the election. You can hear from the directors that the big words are not meant to be addressed but are to try to point out the others and those responsible for the situation. Let us not forget that it was the government itself, even though it was the case. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir had not been in the country and witnessed the conversations that took place in a Senate hall and set himself on a high horse, which promised the nation according to the greatest protest of Iceland's history that a council would be broken. Since then, members of the government and ministers have joined one another, threatening that this will not be done, but they have completely considered the government's opposition to fill out or participate in solving an unpublished government check. It's an unacceptable situation. To intend that we go to a regular congregation meeting and pretend that nothing has happened in the country is not available. It's just not available. [[The president calls.]] Give us a date. It was very clear, President, at a meeting of presidents that the chairman of the government council demands a date. [[The president calls.]] There will be no routine Senate work here until it's done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u23	A respectable president. Well, that's it. There will be no routine council service here as the minority of Congress fails to meet its demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u24	Let's dig in? You suggested this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u25	As long as you do not do what we want, there will be no routine Senate work. Don't you think that's exactly what we generals feared for a weekend? Is that not exactly what happens? The nonsense continues on the side of the government, with the public's appearance on the matter, which is not exemplary. [[Yeah, okay.]] [[Up front.]] It's just that kind of thing. Here's a gas puff. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir into her room, and this is a big pain in her chest. [[Up front.]] I get it. [[Up front.]] And now come all the cattle after. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. We can agree with our contracts to vote in the fall fairly modestly. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the important matters we're going to finish, but it's health insurance, the maximum patient payment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that what the government now intends to do? þm. Birgitta Jónsdóttir and her herd crying out, stopping? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] To reduce the expense of patients? [[The president calls.]] It's here on the agenda. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Let's keep going and try and finish our job. [[Up front.]] [[Take it up to: Yes, sire.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u26	A respectable president. Sincerely, is it too much to ask for a date in elections? Is it rude and demanding to know when the elections will be held? Let us appreciate what we are talking about. We're talking about fulfilling the requirements of people who came here tens of thousands of people to the East and immediately demanded an election. Right away, not a change in the government seating, but an election immediately. It is a very simple requirement on the side of the government. When are these elections to be held? V.E.G. The first prime minister who left last week was on both sides in a contract with the demands. He was a demandsant and led to treaties with demands. He had the advantage of other demands because he knew exactly what the requirements were. There's a difference. Similarly, there is a difference between political parties who know when the election will be - I can't believe that present political groups have not come up with the possibilities - and those who don't know when they'll be. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I also want to know what important matters the board is about to complete. We have an appointment to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u27	Mr. President. I thought why. The procurator of the Independence Party objected to his own defense to draw into it a lawsuit that the State would have lost during the last term. It seems that within the past few days, this government and two ministers in it have lost legal cases, of course, in the region so far. On the one hand, for the unjust way in which there is unemployment and for the failure to negotiate agreements with the city of Reykjavík. But then I'd like to say about the point that since it is so much so for the unnamed candidates that the word is an even word, then the autumn is very stretchy, isn't it? With the immediate stretch of the advance team, the autumn is a very open concept. Is it any wonder that humans want land under these conditions? If it is so that the government cannot bring any harm to anything, then the Senate is in the position of deciding how it will take the next step. I can only see that it is the task of organizing how we use the spring loss until the end of May because we didn't find in June for presidents' elections, and then we just have to see if this government gets to the point of what it is, what it's going to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u28	President. It speaks of the boring, ugly face of the Alleglans. A general assembly is putting people in their minds. People do not have confidence in the Generals. [[It's not weird.]] That won't be any further today, I think. However, it is one man's hand that everything will fall here in a gentle sheets in ten minutes. If he tells us, he'll tell us. the new prime minister, when to choose, the whole place will fall into grace.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u29	Mr. President. The advantage of your head. Ásmundur the Einar Daðason of David before, as well as often in the past, is rude. This is rude of the people who have come here and spent their time claiming that the protests are because they are in the hands of a group of 38 members of the House of Congress and an independent party. The government is full of trust. She's solid. That's why people call an election right away. The former prime minister, who did not depart from the council, withdrew from the throne. He is just as incompetent and trustless as a senator and as a minister. The same is true of others. I don't understand when senators are going to try to hide behind it, not that the intervention was extremely good with the senator who replaced it. þm. Sigmund Davíð Gunnugasson. [[The president calls.]] This does not change our need to know this in order to keep the committees at peace. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're dealing in the middle of a huge case on the General and Education Committee. [[The president calls.]] Is that supposed to be over? I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Should this be over? [[The president calls.]] When will we know? Shall we continue to work...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u30	That is true of all of us. Councilmen that they are required to meet the deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u31	A respectable president. I am deeply concerned with the appeal that the greater part of the world has that there are 38 members of this country. I just have a very simple question to the highest level. President, is there a Senate hearing in Iceland, or is there majority? I would also like to ask the highest. President: is the highest. President of the Parliament of the greater part and the smaller part, the 63 members of Congress sitting here, or is he just the President of the 38th? In addition, it's going to be the highest. To use himself in an effort to make some conclusion in this enormous case? I demand immediate answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u32	It's a Senate hearing in Iceland. The president of the General Assembly is the president of the Generals, including the president of all the generals, who has tried to fulfill his role in this regard. It does, however, reflect on matters involving differences of opinion that may not all agree with what the president does on a certain occasion. However, he seeks to show reasonableness in his work and primarily to obey the laws and regulations he operates in and in his constitution. Now there have been discussions between government and government opposition, and the president hopes that they will lead to good results.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u33	A respectable president. Here are very normal questions, which are the reaction of the government's opposition to what governments have said. V.E.G. The prime minister has said not to vote for us and that there is a possibility that they want to settle some matter for that time. It is only natural to ask, " What is the first issue, and which day should be chosen? ' I think it's very strange that we're wasting time on it and not just getting direct answers about it right away. Why is the government straying from these questions? Is that not the most reasonable way to answer this question? In all sincerity, I ask. What matters should pass through? I look forward to discussing changes in health insurance law. [[The president calls.]] That's a good thing, and we need to talk about it. That is what we will do after we have found the answer to these overwhelming questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u34	A respectable president. I'll join my party sister, okay? paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir: The peace here in this hall is in the hands of one man. V.E.G. The prime minister just needs to give a simple answer to a completely legitimate question about when he intends to enter the election. All the major projects that this government has to do will be discussed, but it's hard to tell us who they are. There's no lawsuit for the council. Is it not typical to hold on to some hairy talk, talk about harmonizing the view of election in the fall when the common people are just asking: What do you mean by the promise you made here last week that it would be chosen in the fall? There will also be 38 more members of the council in this hall. The power is very important to them, and it is easy to see that they are going to have a hard time letting go of that power, for now they are obviously entertaining the idea of not keeping their promise of elections in the autumn. While they do not make a date, that promise cannot be taken seriously or viewed as having no meaning behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u35	Mr. President. It is not merely that the public does not trust the government. That is also the case with the highest degree. The prime minister does not seem to have the strength required to fit in with the constitutions on the date of elections. This is a very serious situation. Besides the fact that there's no legal record and like a sledgehammer. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir pointed out is at the highest hands of this case. Prime Minister. If he is able to name the ideal day and file a lawsuit, we can discuss how it can be properly completed. So I'm making my wish to the President not to find any more until a date for elections and a lawsuit is established.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u36	The president would not have set up these specific matters if it was not his intention to continue a material discussion at the General on the scheduled issues. The president tried to choose these matters with zeal, and he decided to set up the meeting for the first meeting in the week, a matter that has been called after, and a case of agreement with the committee. By doing this, the president wanted to respond to a call that has been expressed both in society and at meetings for specific health - care solutions, while he would like to address matters that were agreed on on at the Senate Committee and have been reviewed for a future discussion. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u37	A respectable president. There was an unprecedented situation last week. To cope with this, there were certainly changes made in the government, and a new prime minister took his place, but when it was reported that these changes were made in front of the governments, looked, and spoke to the nation in two ways. One is to replace the prime minister, to replace the first one, and then to be chosen in the fall. What's more, topv. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, said that the terms of the terms would be cut short to one legislature. He's been here so long that he knows what one legislature is. The last legislature of this terms begins in the beginning of September. Now, either it is being made meaningless or it was told a lie. [[The president calls.]] Which was it, Mr. Honorable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u38	A respectable president. I'll always be more and more surprised. There's a lot of talk, and the highest. During the weekend, the prime minister was interviewing, the importance of building trust. That's obvious, and it's been obvious in the past few years. Among other things, a bright future is established on this project and on the basis of our belief that trust has to be built in Icelandic society. How can one imagine doing so? The people stood here on the stairway last week saying quite clearly, for obvious reasons, that it should be chosen in the fall, that it should shorten the terms of one council. The reasons were obvious. Now it's beginning to raise a suspicion that somehow you're gonna talk yourself out of it, it wasn't meant that way, and it's not quite clear. Wouldn't it be the best game in this position, if you mean that they want to build trust, to come out and say, "The day is there, and this is the thing we want to finish? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that not the best? [[The president calls.]] Do not confusion and chaos create everything else? Do we not see that condition at the council today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u39	President. I'm going to use this part of the program to ask for a Minister of Education to discuss a recent service contract with the State Radio. This was made up of a special promise in a discussion of the budget bill, and I expect this request to go to the highest level. Secretary of education and culture will review that case in particular with the council as promised. This is important, especially in view of the fact that in many places political control is being tightened, especially in public discussions and media. Then I'd like to say that I think it's a good reason to go over it with a reason. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir what it means to be judged for something. There's an unusual understanding of the minister's division of rural society on the basis of organizational matters. It sometimes comes on a table of environmental ministers, sometimes a table of Ministers of the Interior, as is currently the recent case of Ólöf Nordal of Reykjavíkurborg, there is a disagreement on organizational matters. [[The president calls.]] The result is, and when the result was established in the case referred to, the organization on which the conflict was established and the law was then explained. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, Mr President, that there's someone left unafraid. A senator repeatedly, both at the General and in the media, comments that the person standing here is doomed to a person - for that is wrong. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u40	The President wants to inform the highest level. A minister of education has requested to the president that there be a space to discuss this new service contract with the Government Radio. Of course, the president wants to try to grant that request, trusting that we can find time for that discussion to be done whenever possible. The president would like it to be performed sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u41	A respectable president. I would like to reiterate the demand that the date of the election appear as soon as possible. It is important, not just for those in politics, perhaps the least for us, that we be able to get into elections with short notice, but also for the nation to know when to vote. They have to be prepared, they have to make decisions, they're elected committees, there's schools, there's a lot, there's other events around the election that need to be taken into account. It's so weird to be sitting on this. I'd also like to remind you that the government is not doing us any favors by making a new election and mentioning a date. This is the requirement out here. Prime Minister has resigned. It's not like it's not been working out yet. Sometimes I wonder, " Do governments and governments not read the magazines? ' And see what's been going on? We're being ridiculed abroad for the way we've behaved. [[The president calls.]] And comparing this with some case from an earlier term, some recruitment that were convicted illegal, I'm sorry, I don't know what to do. The head of the Independence Party is leaving. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u42	Mr. President. The government declared that there would be elections in the fall, that the next legislature to begin in September would fall and that would be elected in the fall. Why not? It's not complicated. This isn't space science. It is said to be such a complex project ahead that it cannot be fulfilled. I think it's time to get to the top. The president also takes the responsibility of the council seriously. According to protocol, there's only 22 days left. How does the president see the success of finishing his work in 22 days and the opportunity to vote before the fall of Congress, or that the legislature council to begin in the fall? Don't we have a plan to work on? Is this just to attack from day to day? I don't feel sorry for us in the government position. It's just such an ugly image for the council and the Senate, it's not an offer. [[The president calls.]] It is such an unpleasant practice that most can be done at the beginning of a government that is planned under these tragic conditions, which should not be forgotten immediately during the first week - that it was abandoned because of a scandal and money to the tax system of this government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u43	The President still insists on that at what? Councilmen say they have a time limit. It applies to all members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u44	A respectable president. I thought it was clear in my case that I thought that I could well harmonize the views that appeared here last week with, quite right, unprecedented situations when Prime Minister resignes, but the government decides to stay. It said that elections could be accelerated and that men were willing to do so. To that end, solidarity should be possible. It was also said that a certain matter should be completed before the election arrived. I think it is possible to reconcile both these views, to speed up elections, and to complete the issues the government intends to bring and finish. V.E.G. The prime minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson called the government opposition to him and had a good meeting with her earlier today. Therefore, I am surprised to learn that now people do not want to start discussing matters that are quite clear to include among them in this list, such as making up the cost of patient participation. Is it not time for us to get involved in the important issues in this meeting? V.E.G. The prime minister has said that this list will appear and that they can normally discuss how to change the Council's work programme, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] For God's sake, let's get together to discuss important subjects that are before this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u45	Mr. President. Now you have the President and the highest. Prime Minister listened to members of the council, both swift. Councilmen of the government, and presidents of members of the members of the administrations. I'll ask for president and chief. Prime Minister - who has left the hall - to evaluate the situation. Is it not obvious that the date for the election has to be set? If for some reason it is not possible to do so today, the highest may occur. So the prime minister suggested when he will be ready for a date. Will he be ready for tomorrow? Or the other day? We must get some firm grip on these matters so that Congress work can continue in a decent way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u46	A respectable president. Due to the words of Sagas Svavarsdóttir, I thought I said... [[Hv. Senator.]] Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter, thank you for the tip. paritaprevir Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þordóðurdóttir. I thought I told you I'd made the ultimate decision. The environmental minister would have been judged invalid, not that the minister had been sentenced to the Supreme Court. If my tongue has failed, I hold back. paritaprevir I'm sorry about that, Svavarsdóttir. I thought I said her decision was invalid in the Supreme Court. I simply wanted to share it. Again, I reiterate that in my speech earlier, I was pointing to the double - skined person I felt was having the government stand. I am also aware of this, a respectable president, that two ministers in the present government have lost a case in the Supreme Court. The exact same thing... in the district, forgive, and it doesn't matter about them at allhv. þm. Svavardóttir. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Her decision was sentenced toomer, and I reiterate my apology, allowed my words to be taken so that the minister had been sentenced to the Supreme Court. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u47	V.E.G. President. No matter how. The members of Jón Gunnarsson and Ásmundur Einar Daðason try to turn the discussion, the ball is at the top. Government to bring a date at elections. While it is not given up, it is reasonable to be suspicious of whether or not to fulfill the promises of elections. There's nothing more to do than just put a question mark on it. Once again there's gonna be a fight. Congress has spoken about important matters, but again I have to say that the ball is at the top. Government, she must present this important issue. It is absolutely unannounced that day - to - day decisions on what matters should be planned during the 22 days remaining in the Council Work Programme. [[The president calls.]] It is simply the government's presentation of matters and the date, and then we have some basis for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u48	A respectful president has described this for us that he has put a matter on a program that he thinks we want to talk about and talk about. I thank him for not putting some revolution on that day, but I guess that's enough. But I'm going to reiterate that this debate in the chamber can be resolved. You can come out here and say, it won't be chosen -- what to say, I don't know -- until September 20th and after October 15th, or something like that. Then it'd just be over here today, Mr. President. And the next thing you know, the government will put down a list of the issues she wants to end and discuss it with the government. I think the government situation is just as bored with what's going on here in this room as the people outside. We'd like to work here faithfully and faithfully and under a decent and good job management. [[The president calls.]] But I would ask a respectable president to do it for me to try to make a mistake on the government, how it approaches us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u49	A respectable president. It is called for by the opposition of the government that the man standing here is driven by waves. I'll try. It is not surprising that members of Parliament call for a date on elections in the fall. However, it is unnatural how it is done to comply with that requirement. It is not normal for us to see the work that we are witnessing today. Of course, it will take some time for political leaders at the Council to sit down and agree on this. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] This is not a small matter, and much is under discussion. That's just what they're working on. The people who set up for a meeting board discussion and hold out a job so that no important subject can be taken on a program that all of us agree on with us has indecent work practices and does not adapt the appearance of the council. And then just a little bit. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir and her sentence was due to come. [[It's just us as... the shape of the council...]] Yes, you're right, it's the point that her decision was judged invalid. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But the highest reaction. Minister at the time was that she said she didn't care, she was in politics. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It was all respect for the law back then. [[The president calls.]] There was no great humility in doing so. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u50	V.E.G. President. Here the play that the government started a few weeks ago. This is a requirement to say the date of the election. It's just a matter of fact, that's all. But it hasn't changed to me since the weekend. There's still a government here that's completely glassy. Why? Because they dealt treacherously with the nation. Her two chief men betrayed the nation, lied to them. It is the requirement of society, perhaps not everyone, but a large part of the community, to vote immediately. That would be the simplest of all. The prime minister would do it, interrupt the council, and announce an election. Clear the table. He's here at the invitation of voters, and we represent the nation, for the people, and we're supposed to listen to what they want. The best thing he did would be to interrupt an assembly immediately because it is required in the community. If he doesn't, it's minimal that he will tell us when to vote in the fall so that we can be at peace with him because I'm quite ready to work on good things mentioned here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we do not do so under these circumstances. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u51	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson claimed that because of the decision of the Supreme Court in my dispute with a particular organizational organization, I responded by claiming that I was in politics. It describes the situation here, and perhaps especially in the Independence Party - which is left to protect the Chairman and the backup form both of the Panama Documents, and should, of course, step aside. The senator should stand here and that his only defense should be to lie, falsely to other members of the council. It's annoying, Mr. President, and I strongly request that you do so. A senator will be reproved for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u52	To answer, Prime Minister, Industrial and Business Minister, Social and Housing Ministers and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u53	A respectable president. If the situation in the community has not been established before, I think the exchange now and the protests of the past few days will prove it to us. It is indeed a delicate position in which a new government is in, and I encourage the highest. The prime minister to take advantage of the opportunity he gets to answer to me below, confirming it from this discourse that he told us this morning in the government stand that it would be chosen in the fall, but he did not believe he could name a specific date today. I'd like to encourage him to make the date as soon as possible. I think it all mattered to try to lead on, out of this endless stream. V.E.G. The prime minister told the Morning newspaper yesterday that he did not think it possible to take action against the Icelanders who kept money in the low taxes due to the EEA Convention. However, now it is stated that EFTA has issued a declaration that the EEA Convention does not exclude law forbids deposit in low taxes areas outside the EEA area and confirms that, in fact, we knew most, I think, before, that the EEA agreement on free capital transport does not apply to other countries than the EEA itself. In view of the fact that the top experts have now been corrected. Prime Minister sought advice from: Is it the highest? ▪ Prime Minister ready to make a statement that he wants to walk with us in order to forbid individuals to keep money in low taxes? Is he thus willing to deal with the way to take serious action via law to send a message that the Icelandic government and the Allied Council of Iceland are opposed to individuals holding money in under tax nations and fighting it with all force within a country that is in the world?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u54	A respectable president. Thank you for asking why. Senator. As he quoted them, I immediately examined the first reaction of specialists in this country on Friday, and they were in order that, among other things, due to the escapade of the EEA Convention, no special action could be taken here in Iceland. I also know how ESAs react, has been in contact with them today, and I'm glad they're not. I agree with what. Senator on the importance of this. We discussed it at our conference of candidates yesterday, and we assigned the chairman of the Council's Economic and Business Committee, Sigurjónsson Sigurionson, to lead the work of the party in an effort against the tax authorities. We think it is very important, as I have said, that we do not have legislation - which is indeed today, was set up in a time-old government, as I know it. A senator knows, and even instructions on how to work are made on the national tax manager's website. I think it's very important that we here at the council go over it and under the head of the Council's Economic and Business Committee, Sigurjónsson Sigllionsson, we rely on it. I also listened to an interview with the head of state tax last night, and there was one of the proposals we discussed at the council meeting yesterday, that at least legislation could be established on the responsibility of those who recommend it and put the banks in Iceland and finance companies - the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance has also mentioned, that it can be associated with the tenure policy of these enterprises; to establish legislation and rules that could then limit this. But it is also clear that this is an international problem that we need to interact with other countries as we have been doing, on the other hand, with OECD countries, in cooperation with them, but especially perhaps with the states of the North countries, as I know it. A senator knows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u55	A respectable president. In this context: Is the government willing, for example, to suggest to our alliances in the EEA that we share in the clientele and commercial pressure against the undertax nations? There's a lot of things you can do if you want to send them a message that they won't accept the march of this kind. I call for more authority on the part of the government in it. Of course, it is also part of the fact that the directors of the administrations complete what has not been completed, to put their very own personal ties in this regard. Finally, I just want to say, "I am the highest. " Prime Minister prepared to comment here in his second answer regarding the date of the election?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u56	A respectable president. With regard to the demurries, we feel very important that Iceland will take the lead among its peers and take the initiative. The reputation of the country lay low, and in view of the number of individuals and businesses in this country, we need to make a special effort to add our image to that. However, as noted in The Economist today, this leak is believed to be between 5 and 10% of the world's extent of this problem, so it is a very significant project of the international community to cope with this problem. As for elections, I can well repeat what I said this morning - thank you for the fine meeting, I experienced what we've been discussing before at the council that it's suspicious, it's difficult to follow that path of trust and conversation. I had a nice meeting with the officers and the officers of the government this morning, where we went over the fact that we have to continue this conversation. [[The president calls.]] We need to review the matters of Congress that are truly available during the council, and we need to decide our election day in the fall, as we have announced to the representatives of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u57	Mr. President. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. The prime minister who earlier said it was important for Iceland to take the lead among its peers and show initiative in fighting taxes. I agree that in view of the fact that we seem to have had a measure of leadership in the other direction, the number of Icelanders associated with their localities in tax seas. I'm glad to hear it. Prime Minister wants us to take the lead the other way. I think it's very important that the time we have before elections will be used to deal with these issues. Changes have been made and we've talked about it considerably, reminding us that here, of course, were introduced CC rules 2009 which have been of great importance. It was kind of an information exchange deal. It is possible to take steps towards directly ban property in the tax industry and I think it is possible for us to consider in view of the fact that we at the U.S. category of the left movement have made a suggestion that the Allied Council allows a study of the number and function of a member of the Icelandic organisation, individuals and legislators in the tax industry, defined by OECD and Icelandic governments, i.e. that the General will take the matter into account in view of the fact that the matter has actually been brought into the council by the elected representatives associated with national societies, that we, on the other hand, submit to this investigation, and that a special research team will be set up under the chief tax investigator with the establishment of the taxpayer and possibly more members to review the extent of the case. What I think matters here, Mr. President, is to get all the information on the table. We know that the leak that has now been in the media has to do with one law firm and one bank, and we know in ourselves that the magnitude could be greater and that we may have only seen the top of the iceberg. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he agrees with us on the importance of such investigation and whether he is prepared to consider that we will end such a matter at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u58	A respectable president. I can say with what. Senator on the importance of taking this lead, including Because of the number of enterprises involved here. It has been observed, at least, in the case of the governor of state taxation yesterday that he believed that this number had developed since 2008 and that some societies had been formed since then. We need to review all these laws, what opportunity we have. I reiterate what I said before, I don't want to rule out anything that makes the most sense to do it. I think it's a good initiative that's come from the chairman of the Council of Economic and Business Committee to have an open meeting with the Ministry, the head of state tax, the head of the IRS and the FEC. I think members of the Parliament are the most reasonable platform for opening up such discussions and increasing transparency, getting information to the public and information into the council. I also believe in the continuation of these institutions, it is most reasonable that members of the Parliament have been monitored by members of the council. I believe we have to do everything we can to make sure that these institutions of ours have sufficient resources to work, i.e. that they have both the means and the means to do so. We need to consider whether it is wise to establish a special team of cooperation between these parties or whether they can be assigned in different ways as they have so far. However, I think it might be a question to consider whether the council should undergo a tax examination of individuals or companies. I thought it would be a much better and democratic effort to leave it to society's institutions. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the things we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. The suggestion is, not that this investigation is being carried out by senators, but by individuals with expertise in matters. Committees have many matters to care for, as we all know here, including Substitution of Congress. I believe it is difficult for members of the Parliament to put together the responsibility to supervise such matters, which we see to be very extensive. I'm the highest. A minister to consider the suggestion that the council will take the matter into its own hands but that he will arrange for special members, not senators, to examine this investigation. This would mean following in the footsteps of the British and French people who have just taken these matters and showing how important it is for a local assembly to take on responsibility and to make a special investigation of the matter. I'm the highest. In view of what he has said here, prime minister, in view of his will that we take these matters seriously, to examine this idea seriously. I do not believe that the International Parliamentary Committees have the circumstances of fully accomplishing this role, although there are many things on their side. [[The president calls.]] Then I'll agree with the highest. Ministers that it is important for institutions to receive the legal resources required to perform their duties.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u60	A respectable president. I restate on what I have already said in this discussion, it is important that we work together to look closely at these matters, to look to other nations, many of which seem to handle these matters too, in which there is a global problem, as we have discussed before in this discussion. I don't think there's a suggestion in advance. I think it's right that we all look at them. The most important thing is to recognize the scope, the situation, and the work to be done. Then I think that the next step is to take steps to ensure that the matter is thoroughly examined and that all are being examined as expected by the law. I also want to use this opportunity, as I have done before, to encourage those who have not returned their own to the community to clean up their doors. I think it's a very important opportunity, and I think there's a lot of appeal in the community that everyone pays to the fair community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u61	A respectable president. I'd like to be the subject of a story about a former U.S. Marshal. Secretary of state who paid less than a million of his drawer last day at work. I would like to recall in the beginning that the former prime minister had hardly been established as a minister when he was sharing strength from tasks of interest and by traditional means, competitive funds, and other means we have set up to prevent anxiety decisions and corruption, in order to protect ourselves from the extravagance of public funds. A government retrospect made serious comments on these posts made by the former prime minister, who was willing to cooperate with a body. I don't remember anyone in the government or the government. The minister of finance has made comments about this. We also experienced this during the budget work in 2015 and 2016 that a greater proportion of the shares began and took in all kinds of departments transferred to the Ministry and began sharing funds for partners and projects, certainly an excellent project, by traditional means. Now we again read the news of the minister's drawer money, which I had considered to be some kind of emergency reserve when something happened. V.E.G. A minister has answered, he has found that there is no problem, there are tasks that fall between ships and docks. We're talking about 40 million in all the problems. I must say, I find this tremendous disappointment. I thought we were about to get to the point where we were going to try to look out for an equal with the spread of public funds. I have to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he feels this is normal. If you think there are tasks that fall between ships and docks, e.g. Civilization in the country, why is it that they don't put more money in that suit so that we ensure that the distribution is professional and equal, that all can apply for strength, that applications, and appeals and accesss are not relevant to counsellers? [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. Is this acceptable to the prime minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u62	A respectable president. Last year, the exact amount of money we received for culturally linked funding to the country through parish plans, and people have been following that route. A few years ago, there were changes in the affairs of the council in which museums, once strengthened, were transferred to the Ministry. I'm not sure that it would have returned as long as possible. A senator suggested, greater professionalism, or guarantee that projects will be supported. These are small amounts, but they can be of great importance to the job being applied for. The more that come to it, the better. Then came the other way. A senator of the money the Ministers make out of, so - called provision money, which has often been asked about in the council, and all lists have been published, and nothing wrong with it. There are small tasks, such as whales. A senator spoke of those who fall between a ship and a dock that receives support from such provisions, usually a very small amount. I don't think anything's wrong with that arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u63	A respectable president. If so, we do not agree. Actually, it wasn't my word that this mission fell between ships and docks. It was the highest. Minister. After these museum members entered the Ministry, I have at times felt that they are really not monitored, and the officials have something to play out, a minister of every department responsible for it and can set procedures. So these answers surprise me considerably. I know it may be that there's a really nice job there, but I think it's a little bit like they're buying loyalty, even votes. Then I'd like to point out that just last year, a group like the Specialist Party got 74 million on budgets, just to be a member of the council. Why don't they just remove money from the pack? This is unacceptable to me. I had understood it so that this drawer money would be some kind of reserve if anything came up, if anything would really be falling between a ship and a dock, not for a project to go under the already available fund and museum crew. A minister's answers disappoint me, but I've had them repeatedly here that he thinks this is normal and that if his unit stays with the board, the money of Secretary drawer will continue to be divided out. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u64	A respectable president. There are, of course, rules of action around all the appointments in the councils. Hv. paritaprevir I was not to be understood, so in the case of the museum members transferred from the council to the Ministry, professionalism was reduced, as it were. I was just saying that fewer people had come to look at those things. Since Iceland is a very large country, although we are not many and the country is scattered, knowledge of individual small tasks that will be of great importance if they are small strength, may be more involved. That's what I mentioned. Of course, procedures are rules of action. There is also a procedure for the Minister's disposition. These are small amounts. The Source of that strength is perfect transparency and enlightenment at any given time. So I simply don't think it's worth putting a big question mark on it, or I wonder if there's anything abnormal in such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u65	President. I wonder, when the highest. The prime minister invites the government's opposition to him, which was originally meant to be one and not all at a time, why the highest. The minister of finance was not included. Now I see in the media the reason to go to the top. The secretary of finance could not be at a meeting to discuss the government's opposition to its progress and the procedure of this government is, by permission of the president: ◯Bjarni Benediktsson financial minister will be giving an opening talk at the Euroonyy conference in London tomorrow, where there will be an update on -- the restoration of the economy, following the 2008 and Iceland collapse as an investment today. The conference's top sponsors are the three major business banks, Acion Banki, Iceland Bank and Landsbank, as well as the Gamma, Mookua, Foos Markets, Logos Law, and Deutsche Bank at the conference. Now I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, for example, why the meeting was not announced at the front of the government last night so that it would be absolutely credible that both members of the government agree on the legal file that we simply cannot get. The reason was that this was so extensive. It seems that this government has presented so few cases, there are so few problems in the dough, that 20 years will have to be sought back in time to find something similar. So, what exactly is the task management of the government? You guys don't have any overview?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u66	A respectable president. When I invited him. This morning's meeting was welcomed by members of the council, and I went to the highest level. The secretary of finance would be abroad at a conference long ago on the invitation to deliver a message about economics in Iceland and our effectiveness in this area in recent years, which, of course, is amazing, and that is why the demand for the highest power was demand. Secretary of finance to attend such a meeting. After what happened, we felt it was very important to get the message to the world around us about the situation in Iceland. The question was asked why they were not invited to the meeting yesterday. We had a meeting yesterday, then a government meeting. There was a conference meeting, where I had already had the opportunity to request meetings with the front of the government. I was going to have a chance to have a meeting with each other. Wishing from the government's stand to gather together, I thought it was a nice way too. We had an excellent meeting this morning, which I thought was important, a good step into what we have to do in politics in Iceland, to increase the public's trust in politics and politics. I thought this morning's meeting was going really well with what it was all about. It is true, however, that I could not at that meeting - I wanted to keep him in spite of the foreignness of a financial minister. We will undoubtedly arrange for a meeting where the secretary of finance will also be present, as we review the issues that have been discussed here today, such as to form the terms held before the council and the additional judicial matters that we have spoken about having to go before the council so that we can complete important social and national projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u67	President. You are aware that there is a conflict in the government home on issues. So, I guess it's not easy getting along about the issues to be settled here at the council, and it's called for good weather from the lesser part to continue. As I say, there are no enormous numbers of cases to be completed, and as a result, it is surprising that this list of issues cannot just be submitted and that it is a date of when to vote. So I'd like to reiterate it to the highest level. At the same time, the prime minister asks him if he did not feel normal that this would be the end of Friday. If that's not possible, what exactly makes that stand? If, as we have seen, the issues are really so few?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u68	For a number of cases, I've been on this opinion for a very long time, and actually long before I sat down at the council, that it was not a measure of the quality of Congress to tread through as much of the council. After my first years in this room, I became convinced that more important things are being done. The projects I've been living with as Minister, i.e. the need to defend all kinds of laws that have been passed in the past has convinced me that less cases are wise and careful. There's no disagreement about a matter between the parties, that's not why we haven't sat down with the smaller section of the council and covered the number of languages we want to finish. We took the first step this morning. We will continue that course, and I think it is very important to continue the conversation that we have this morning and describe me as prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u69	A respectable president. V.E.G. In a conversation earlier at this time of inquiry, Prime Minister informed him that he would take the lead and initiative to use himself against saving money in low taxes. I want to go to the highest. Prime Minister will more closely determine how he intends to use himself in this matter. Tells you the highest. The prime minister that the head of his party needs to clarify his tax issues better and put all the information on the table? And what about the highest. Secretary of finance? How's the top count? Prime Minister (Minister's right to take action, as it has been demonstrated, that financial and economic ministers have not correctly explained their issues on the Council's interest log? Tells you the highest. Prime Minister for Economic and Economic Ministers, head of the country's tax issues, needs to give further details about their financial issues? I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister at this point. These are questions that burn on the public right now and that are normal at the highest level. Prime Minister will answer them, especially in the light of his own last week's recommendation that there must be money somewhere and that having money in Iceland is complicated. It's a recommendation to the highest degree. A prime minister would need to clarify and explain the context of what he has now informed him about planning to take the lead in combating taxes. It is sometimes said that it is good to start by taking a look at ourselves, and it certainly looks so at the top of the moment. Just a government needs to take a closer look at itself and answer some hard questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u70	A respectable president. For asking why. The senator's comment as I walked down the board with a journalist asking questions without a formal interview becomes the comment that it is difficult to have money in Iceland to look at in the light that I was talking about society. Those who have money have always, for a very long time, been very involved with people's teeth. [[The point is, stop it.]] That's just what I meant. This can sometimes be difficult. It's often critical in Iceland. It's just that way. I think it's very important that we just stumble and think about ourselves, if we're going to go on the expedition I've described here earnestly that we're going to go on, to take the lead in, the government, in cooperation with the council, and to look at all the advantages we can offer to prevent people, Icelanders at least, from taking advantage of such service as is available. It could mean going over whether those who perform such services are somehow accountable, as if to form a tax president yesterday spoke to us at our council meeting yesterday. Hv. Among other things, a senator asked us how we would use ourselves to do so. Yes, the first step, of course, is to examine the legal situation. It needs to be analyzed. That's what we're doing. There is also a need to inform the council and the general public of the country about the scope, how our institutions, and the government taxpayer and tax investigator, even the Customer's office, and to inform the Fed Department. The idea is to do so at the council in the next few days with an open meeting or a press conference. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a very good start, but, of course, we have to do something more in cooperation here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u71	A respectable president. It is said and has begun, I believe, that the most important role in politics today is to build trust in society. Trust, among other things, depends on how to correct and respond to wrongdoing. That's why I'm asking back the highest. Prime Minister: He intends to perform some form of work to present the truth of the affairs of the presidents of the advance and independent party, i.e. their money in taxes? Has prime minister or plans to initiate a survey to see if administrative law was followed because of the approach of former prime minister to the demands, now that it is evident that a member of a former prime minister has expressed demands in the fallen banks? It seems to be the former of the highest. Prime Minister has had a military position in contracts with demanding workers. [[The president calls.]] Take care of the highest. ▪ Prefects that the management board performs something in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u72	A respectable president. I think they're what they are. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers as fast as possible. A senator referred to a clear explanation for his affairs. I feel that the main project here and now to look at the bigger picture and that we just admit to ourselves that, in one of our banks in a data leak from one South American law firm, there's data on up to 800 companies in Iceland, that's the project we have to consider, that's what we need to investigate. Those who have not been clean in their homes, who have not paid taxes to the community, not informed about their business, are made to do so in one way or another, and the institutions of the community we have to investigate are assured tools to do so. The first step is to inform us about the situation today, and that is what is available. As a result, the principle has already been set in motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u73	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the health insurance law. The bill suggests that a new health - care system will be adopted and that the maximum health insurance will be established monthly. The bill also contains measures for the management of health care within the Healthcare Professional Service that usually aims to be the first patient's place of care. The main changes in the bill are to maximise the individual's payments for health care, different medical services, hospitals, independent healthcare professionals, tests, radio- and imaging - all set in one system at a maximum of one system. Prior to this, 40 systems of payment were high, with a different system of discounts in force; and it is today, in fact, before the bill is delivered. At the same time, elderly, cripples, and children pay two thirds of the cost for general patients, who are between 18 and 66 years of age. In the bill, it is assumed that children can receive a free service with a reference from a family physician. The added pay takes into account a history of discounting and collects pay for expert services is simplified. In the current payment system, the system is in such a way that there may be high costs for users of health care so that the health care professional can become seriously secure. Also, high costs can prevent a person from seeking the necessary ministry. A new system of payment is designed primarily to distribute funds for services in ways other than the old system so that they will be covered at the expense of those who need much service to maintain the cost they can afford. Since the budget is not to be increased by the new system, other payments need to be raised against the reductions that are calculated there. This bill is based on the proposals made by a committee led by our dear partner, Blöndalur Berlandal. The Committee had members from all members of the Parliament, as well as specialists from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, Iceland's Medical Insurance, Drug Services and the Ministry of Health. The committee was thus appointed to appoint Blöndal H.. He was with the Committee of Igbund Þölsteinsdóttir of Iceland's Medical Insurance, Gunnarsdóttir Júlíusdóttur of the United Nations Council, Kristinn Sigrún Jónsson, a member of the Assembly of the Assembly of the Assembly, Viðar Björk Helgason, a specialist of the Ministry of Health, Álfheiður Ingadóttir Eggertsson, a committee of the Left Move, a Green Mission, Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, a member of the Parliament, a member of the Council of Independence, the Rúna Hauksdóttir Hvannberg, a representative of the Commission, a commission, Sigurður Jónas, a member of the High School of the High School of the United States, the United States of the United States, and General for the Council. The group worked with members of the Ministry of Health and Health. On this occasion, I would like to thank all the individuals mentioned here and also the department's staff for a lot of good work. The committee returned a report of a new health - care system in March 2015. Then, in August of that year, a team was set up to be the centre of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and Iceland's Medical Insurance. The work group was assigned to set up a new system according to the proposals of the Committee. This bill is composed by the same working group. The reason for this is in the ground because the current system we have for making public payment in health care does not provide adequate guarantees. It's an unjust system. It's very complicated and incomprehensible. It causes suspicion. For example, as noted frequently in the Committee's work, we have a high level of 40 payment systems with different forms of discount in our present system. Therefore, all of this work is being won, developing one system of payment that guarantees the same value to all. We're uniting about it, and there's a parapolitic community where it is necessary to change the system in a way that the health system should be viewed from the individual viewpoint and that it should be guaranteed for tragedy, especially for those who are long and permanently in need of service. This has been very much of a concordat as I could in the past, transverse, but there are, of course, other factors that we can deal with; how much money should be absorbed into the system and what fees should be more involved, etc. But the fundamental thing is to make the urgent adjustment to simplify the system and ensure that people are guaranteed to these costs in a comparable way, which they are not today. In the present population system, individuals pay enormous sums of money, as shown in the Committee Jobs. With the bill, the main theme is that no one should pay more than a fixed maximum monthly amount of money for health care. The objective is to protect those in need of a lot of health care to cover high costs and balance the payload of health insurance. It is expected that the maximum pay will be lower than in the general health insurance between the elderly, the micropigs, and the children. And in the bill, it is assumed that the system will drop the health insurance payment for health care professionals, hospitals, autologous healthcare professionals, who have been agreed by the health insurance regulations, but also research and imaging techniques; that all of these factors fall under the new payment system. The payment system to be recorded and submitted according to the bill is based on the pattern set by Dr. Blöndalur H. Bjarnal, which has been called the PHB. The system is set off with a so-called maximum tax set by the Minister of Regulation. It is expected in the implementation of the law that the requirements for a maximum tax decision by a health care professional will not provide a higher percentage of total health care costs than in the current programme. It is therefore not expected that the contribution of health care professionals to the overall health care costs will be increased by the induction of a new system, but the premise is that costs will be distributed in a different way so that those who require medical care less often will be paid more than those requiring much medical care. According to the bill, the system will function to provide health insurance to form a so-called discount strain and will pay health care insurance for health care according to the individual's discount status. However, health insurance pays more than the maximum cost. It is impossible to obtain more money than the maximum health insurance paid each month. The system does not reset for the yeardays. It is determined by the health insurance payment of the previous months. The report on the bill contains examples showing how health care insurance can become legalized by the bill. These changes in health insurance laws aim to establish a righteous and logical health - care system aimed at protecting health care for very high health costs. The bill also suggests that measures aimed at establishing a health care programme within the health care sector to support the policy established by the Health Care Professionals Act since 2007, should be adopted as the first stop for patients. The directive also aims to support a new arrangement for funding within the health care sector, which is largely based on the registered health care insurance at a designated clinic. It is suggested that health insurance who go to another clinic are allowed to be paid at a higher price for the ministry. It's a bill from the bill. At the same time, it is suggested that the price for the services of an independent health care professional be higher for those who come to their service without a reference from a health care professional or family physician. It is also suggested that if the service is applied by a health care professional or by a means of referral, it be decided that a health care professional will be paid for children. The changes presented are aimed at providing patient care as the first stop as well as the help of improving health - care payments, especially in children's families. A respectable president. I have explained the basic principles of the bill and allow it to be suggested. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee. following the discussion taking place here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Health Minister for the speech. It is true that his case shows that it is a transnational desire to change the health - care system. It is not a transliterian will to do so without additional financial resources entering the system. That's not expected in this bill. There are two things I would like to ask in the bill and on the report. On page 18. 16 reports on, on the part of the Ministry of Health, on the basis of the cost assessment of a new payment system. It shows that the switch may change, the cost factor change, the overall cost of change by patient behaviour and the cost. The bill says: It is possible to adapt the system with a change in the maximum health insurance payment to be different from the estimated cost assessment. General patients are now expected to reach a maximum of 95 points. K. approximately. But I guess that makes sense to me, my highest. Minister, that if expenses increase, will this lead to further increases in that high roof? That we really don't know what roof we're dealing with?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is true that she said here that the transnational community is about changing the system in these basics, to put these down in a 40 system of payment of different types. It's been going on for years. In this respect, it is most satisfying to find this solidarity among all groups that it is long time to make such a fundamental change. On the other hand, that is exactly what happened. A senator noted that while this change is not accompanied by an increase in funds for subsidies on the share of patients in health care, there is no agreement. You're absolutely right. In this regard, a member of the body says. These were the orders given by the committee to update the changes in payment of an investment in a way that could not be expected for an increase in the amount of money. I'd like to say, it's a huge project to collect patient payment data, but it's quite complicated. In this light, the information that is still being worked out must be kept in full notice. You're right. A senator says that if the cost of decommissioning is taken, it would surely be possible to change the rules for the patient's maximal involvement in the system. If possible, it is the nature of the matter. But my information says that we have a measure of solid foundation to build on the amount of money set up in the report, but with a note of the accuracy of the information we are working on. In this regard, the answer to a question lies ahead. A senator: Depending on the outcome, you can adapt your system, either up or down.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u76	V.E.G. President. I'd like to stand up for the highest. Ministers to rejoice too much over political solidarity on the subject, since less than 90 of you are. you have signed a petition for more money in your health care system. In contrast, this bill adds to the health costs of over 100 of you. Icelanders. That will be very much in the position of government. Here's another question about the last paragraph 1. ... withauthority of the President's permission: In the case of a service that the Agency is involved in, otherwise by the health care oce, the health insurance agency pays more than the maximum amount of pay paid by the health care agency. Then I wonder, if some sort of transfer is going to be between them, whether they medical institutions, e.g. In the country, get funding to deal with this. Or do they need to carry this from the funds they already have?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u77	A respectable president. It is to say that the costs may be affected by health - care agencies today. We have discussed at work that if a new cost of this happens at a medical facility, it will have to be replaced. I'd like to underscore it here, because I felt that there was a certain misunderstanding at the moment. A senator of my words here - perhaps I didn't get it right enough from myself - that I was celebrating solidarity across groups of changing the existing system of payment; high to 40 systems, completely opaque, complex, and unjust systems. I was just celebrating that there was a conspiracy to attack that change. I was not saying I was happy with it at all, and though there was some agreement that these changes were not accompanied by new funds. I just want to underscore it to what? Senator I wasn't suggesting that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u78	A respectable president. V.E.G. In his background speech, a minister said that with this bill and the changes presented here, I would like to look at the expense of a person's viewpoint and his needs, if I had just noticed. An article with the bill refers to a simple system that is involved. I cannot agree that a simple system means an increase in the equation or the rich consideration of individual service needs. On the other hand, I'd like to get a little more clear at the highest level. Ministers, if I understood the bill's report and the bill itself, how it goes on together, how it works, how it doesn't work, and whether it's not right, to reduce the total cost of patient participation, it's to transfer from one group of patients to another. It is reduced in the most expensive number, it is installed under a desired roof, but the rest or the load will depend on, if I understand correctly, other patients who are less likely to have to take advantage of medical care. Is this not correctly understood by me, my highest? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. You're right about what you're talking about. A senator says that this bill is worked that way. We are losing weight from those whose feet are in Icelandic health care today, i.e. to those who have the highest cost, to equal the rest of us with the blessed privilege of relatively rarely turning to health care. This is a first step. There is no new problem in changing this system, which has been built up in the medical services over the last few years, using this range of payment systems, up to 40. Those who know and study this simply acknowledge that the system as it is designed today, and has grown to this level of evil, does not guarantee the cost to the health - care professionals enough. Then it was the first step to change this, to create a single system of payment in the simplest way, to understand that the pharmaceutical system and the cost of health care available to them, and to protect especially the children. There are ways in this system that can certainly reduce the cost of family members, which means that the rest of us need to take on an increased cost. It's just as if this case has been worked, and it has not been hidden from anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u80	A respectable president. To protect those who are bent on their feet by the weight of the rest, such as the highest. Minister said. I don't agree with that interpretation. Ministers, for there is nothing against the rest of this case. If he was talking about taxpayers in general, the community in general, carrying the burdens to reduce the health - care costs, he could speak in this way. But that's not what he's talking about. He is talking about the cost being rolled over to other patients who need less service. Health costs do not take into account social conditions, economic conditions, social status, estate, age, or other health conditions. People are affected by health costs. Anyone who has become sick can become ill, and therefore it is unfair, if I thought, that those at other tables must approach the health care providers, have to carry the burdens of other patients. [[The president calls.]] How much closer it would be to let those burdens spread into society!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u81	A respectable president. Yes, I'll gladly agree with that. A senator's idea that it would be very good to be able to do this. I think it's the next step you need to take. I'm convinced that if we provide the bill in the form it is available, the Senate will be on better circumstances to determine what adjustments are necessary to meet the viewpoints. A senator mentioned. The first step to take is that we have a common view of the whole system and, in effect, know what lies ahead. Today, we have no overall vision of this. That's what I'm saying. We can see and must not overlook the fact that we are making some adjustments for certain groups. This is shown in a paper with the bill about 40 of you. Family members have the potential to have children free of charge in the field of health care. Isn't that a breakthrough? Yeah. There's certainly a milestone. But I agree that it would be an option if we could see the need to obtain additional money for patient expenses in the Icelandic medical system. [[The president calls.]] I shall certainly not hold that opinion to myself. A senator on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u82	A respectable president. The committee quoted by the minister was referred to here by the committee, and Pétur H. Blöndal went to work in March 2015. A lot of work was behind it, but I myself found it very difficult to participate in that committee because the reasons why we were given were that no further dollars would come into the system but were assigned to reassign money. Of course, there could not be any reconciliation, so there was no solid agreement directly out of the committee. Rather, there was a vote that allowed one to see at least where the majority of the committee was. I didn't vote because I thought it was wrong. Simply put, when we start considering the effects of this and when we start considering how the money is moving, there are always groups who take on loads. What I fear is that a good goal is to place payment on those who use the health system most can lead to problems in other groups. For example, we have seen in the dentist that there is a group who just can't afford to get dental service. This will result in worse quality of life for that group, as well as the fact that various groups, especially those who earn most of their income, may enter the health system that later makes patients heavier. I'm afraid this can happen here. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of that question. First, have there been some forms of countermeasures for those groups who are clearly ill for major increases in health - care costs? Second, if not: How will the weightier groups be monitored compared to income?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. At least we are now on the move to observe and identify groups of patients. It's only now, after all the work that had been done. A senator and others have come to know that somehow we can read it better and better, I say, once we have people and equipment that can read it, we can take the next step. I have no secret that intervention with new emphasis, etc. So you may find yourself in the wrong places. I think it's very important that we get the system on, work with it, get it under control, and then make decisions about these factors as well. One member of the council has spoken for and fought for the promotion of the State's increased payment. It's totally undisputed. However, at the same time, we can also admit that some patients in the health system were not benefiting from these systems being combined, the medical system and the health - care system, because some are more stable in another system. So there are many things to consider in this and when it comes to it. A senator asks if there are any objections in this regard to individual groups or specific diseases or other factors, so we have not come to that site. These are the changes made in the system that have led to the complexity and oscillation of the years, that they were always trying to meet such normal, of course, wishes or requirements. I believe that once we have the system in the direction that we are put here, we will be in a much better position to do so in a more reasonable way than has so far been done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u84	A respectable president. When it is the very objective of any kind of work to take the cost from one group to another, as it is being done here, I think it is very important that the committees consider what kind of counterargument measures could be taken or what sort of monitoring arrangements could be made because we do not want a group of earners we know well that there is a large country, far too large, to find themselves in this service at an increased cost. This is true of the public ministry and of those who may not necessarily pursue it, but the few important matters that they take are in preventing disease from progress and getting bigger and worse. I encourage it to be done. Then I'd also like to mention that what I'm worried about as well in this case is that there is a suggestion that health care will be increased. That's good. Good goal. We, the Conspiracy, have been in agreement for a long time. On the other hand, I worry that when people put in a bill like this, they make the change, that once again they don't follow funding, i.e. direct people into starving health care systems. [[The president calls.]] Do we not need to take action and work together to install some handsome sum so that it can become a serious task that will bring serious harm? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, but in the ground, we may also have lacked the tools, including the equipment. In this bill, for health care to be able to access those below, i.e. that she has the opportunity to be the Ruler she needs to be. I realize that these changes are controversial, natural, in various places. I'm pretty sure the public experts won't like all that's being said, including... as a result of a change in the registration of common users, etc. However, it is fundamental to my mind that this matter, as it is lived in the hands of the council, would ease the burden of those who are ill at the expense of the Icelandic health system. Happily, our common interests here have been in order to change that reality. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the council to take the matter well and the committee to work as well as take into account the viewpoints presented and will be discussed in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u86	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a health insurance law that involves a new health - care system. Therefore, there is no secret that for the discussion to be progressive, the council is missing a basic piece of advice. A budget is missing at the highest level. The minister of finance was to have set aside almost two weeks ago. Then we were going to know if the government was responding to a call at 90 yous. a person on the health - care system and which part should be involved in reducing country payment. V.E.G. The minister of finance went on a long Easter holiday and came home and had to face a divisive government and difficult personal issues. He is now talking abroad at a meeting of some parties to the restoration of the Icelandic economic system. Meanwhile, the rest of us are waiting for a government budget he should have submitted by law. How unfortunate it is that we are discussing such an important system change without knowing what the financial situation for the group will look like in the years to come! So it's a little shot in the dark. I'll just assume that no additional funds should be provided to reduce patient payment. That's the basis I've been given, both by the bill as well as by the lack of work. Secretary of finance. It has been observed in the case of the highest degree. Minister to put together to change the payment system. You're absolutely right. ASI has recently submitted a report on the payment system and the health - care system. I think it's the best record available on this part of Icelandic health care, and it's remarkable that it came from the Ministry, not the National Association of Iceland. But no matter where it comes from. This benefits us greatly in describing what kind of system we have. This system is taking medical care, research and training, diligent training, speech training, and physical therapy, under one system of payment, but still there will be extra-psychological services, dentists for people other than children, elderly and desperate, aid tools, and travel costs. Since dental services for the elderly and disability are now to be used, the pay factor there has certainly not been associated with financial development and the development of dental records, and as a result, this cost has increased dramatically to a group of pensioners. This new system is also suggested to cover a total of 95,200 p.m. price, while the elderly and poorer, children as well as adolescents 18 in the age of 66.51 years will be covered with a roof of 6,500. the patient's medical care should be performed annually. As mentioned earlier in the discussion today, the medication system is not being combined. There are 62 of you roofs. K. On the one hand and 41 on the other. K. However, which means that roofing for people in a general will be 157 you if they use or need a lot of medicine and health care. K. But for a pensioner and a child of 104,500 bucks. This costs quite a bit, though it is certainly in the community of people who pay much more today, and this change is of enormous importance to that group. However, it is not the profit of the resources that will make it easier for them to pay the health costs, there are other patients. That's 85 fars. a person in a group of general patients who increase by 31% at health care costs annually. Worse yet, there are 37,400 pensioners who are paid at an increase of 73% annually. By looking at these numbers, we will see that it is inevitable except by means of extra cash. As a result, over the last three decades, individuals have increased their income. It has doubled over the last three decades and is now about 20% of all health costs and the cost of individuals has increased far more than total health care costs. Thus, the increase in the reporting rate has been increasingly at the patient's own expense. This is not the way it should be, for the health system is to be completely financed by all the people of the country, that it is not the patients who are under the increased burden of the system's costs. I have to say, I don't really think I know how to talk about this because these are so hard facts. Let's see the roof a little, if we take the general patients with 157 you. K. Among them are people, mostly employees, or may be unemployed, including 21◯67 years of age, who are not a donor, but who may be seriously ill and may need a lot of medicine and pay up to 157 of you. K. over the year. If we make simple comparisons, comparison is always difficult, but it's 100 yous. K. More than it would be in Sweden, where there is 57 of you. K. where it's the best. In Denmark it is 79 yous. K. and in Norway 90 you. K. But always Iceland is much, much higher. The top of the medical care facility is higher here and the medicines are missing, which are 62 fars. K. The signature of the telethon says we should have a comparable proportion of GDP to the northern countries. We'll see here how much of this GDP will bring back to the northern countries less efficient health care. It may also be noted that there are probably more people here and companies who betray the community of legitimate taxes by hiding them in foreign taxes. Of course, because the leak of information about the whole system is difficult to make. Just with that legal office, Iceland was a special group of people who failed to pay their share in a common fund. But I imagine that some of them at least use health services in Iceland, and the rest of us paying the percentage higher share than normal. It has been hard to believe that in this country more people have refused to go to health care because of high costs than in any other country in the North. It's up to 3% of patients in this country compared to 0.5% elsewhere in the North countries. If we go to the busiest group, it's 6% of those who get sick who delay seeing a doctor. If we look at dental services, which are not being taken here beyond what is valid for the children and were introduced by the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, we have a fifth low income that postpones dental service. What I'm afraid of, but I can't read from the data, is that those who delay health care are not necessarily all the weakest people today at this unrecognizable cost. People who are so seriously read that choosing health care is just a choice to die. They go out looking for the ministry even if they cannot afford it. They are people who have less serious illness, but even though they limit their quality of life and postponement, the problem can be greatly improved. Therefore, I feel that in no way do I believe that the number of those who need to postpone medical care is being reduced. A general cover of about 120 you have. a person's rising costs for health care, and it's very likely that this will even, without my saying out loud, will lead to the increase in the number of those who delay their service. It can be difficult to find out. It's a vague system and it's like the highest level. A minister went to his opponent before me, and it's a little hard to tell where the water will be. It's a complex, complex system. Of course, we do not now know when we are going with full confidence whether we are reducing the deadline. With simple reasoning, it is more likely that more people will have to delay health care because of the increased costs of a new system recording. Even though people are not postponing health care today, there is no need to, I don't think anyone really wants it, to pay more for health care, although the majority agree completely that it is unlikely that people who are desperate to fight for their lives will have to pay hundreds of thousands for cancer. Of course, that is not acceptable in a welfare community. But we cannot say that those who are already delaying medical care should reduce the cost of serious illness. It is simply not a system that will be at peace and will not work out. I have not come to it in my speech, and I might be coming to another speech, about the reference system to introduce. It's about the children's reference system, permission to introduce a general reference system, but here it's talking about the reference system for children and that they get free service from specialists, if I get this right, if they get reference, and otherwise pay 2/3 of fees. The question is, How quickly should such a system be introduced while health care is as high as it is? Of course, this poses a risk to children's well - being, depending on where they live, as well as on parental income. All of this is at the same well. This change is really unacceptable unless we get additional serious money into the system. This is absolutely necessary, and everyone agrees on it unless the government groups, unless they agree on it in a new national financial program that should have been submitted by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u87	A respectable president. I wanted to hear a little more about what I thought. A senator on the reference system. Now I'm very far from being very informed about the health insurance system, I have to admit, and that's why I'm interested in whether this has been around in many parts of the system and with what consequences. If I understand why. I agree with a member of the Parliament that if it is a reference system and this is about the amount, it is natural that these references will be at some point in the process, i.e. if someone receives a reference to a doctor or an institution that they are not pleased with for any reason. There are millions of reasons, perhaps a location, or even some individuals, to do so. That is why I pay attention when making decisions about the amount of money that concern people very much are bound to new systems or new rules that are not available. I wanted to hear more from what I heard. A senator on the reference system and especially whether they are already involved and where and what is the principal, if anything, as a matter of course. A senator pays attention to their concerns.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u88	V.E.G. President. Health care referral system. It is like walking into a minefield with no less than or less. In the past, however, the practice was common in Iceland. In many ways, I can love such a system, but it is with many warnings. Not only is it so that when Iceland was released, a medical system after the collapse of foreign sources, the attention of these people was immediately caught that the Icelandic medical system is out of control. Thus, the patients run the trip and the cost, the cost management, is much less on the government than on all other countries. This is precisely because we have not had any reference system and have an all - out share in the expert service of personal driving units throughout the community, where individuals who give the service have a rich interest because the patients are usually involved in it. So, of course, there are a lot of people who need to consult a specialist regularly, and they can be very serious obstacles if they always have to look for a reference. If such a system is to be introduced, it must be done with reasonableness and reason. The part of the system that has entered its own private business needs to be established. It is under close supervision. In other words, it is just as much the volunteer side that controls the amount of health care provided but not necessarily the need for patients.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u89	A respectable president. The basic idea behind the bill we have considered is to put a roof on the health - care costs of patients. This in itself is a positive step, for the health costs of patients, long - suffering people, and people in need of health care are indistinguishable, as the situation is today. It does not make any disagreement about limiting the costs that people may face because of illness. On the other hand, the future goal must be that this will be a means of free health care. It is not enough to place a roof on the expense of patients, and we obviously have a very long way to get paid health - care services to become a reality in Iceland, but it is a realistic goal. Those who are familiar with our neighbors'health systems know that in most of their countries, it is quite public, although it may not be quite the case. We do not argue about our goal in ourselves. But there are a lot of things about this bill to look into because it's not a good one. It's not good because, as noted in the inquiry and objection to the minister earlier, it is being financed changes in the payment process with the increased expense of the users themselves. This does not mean reducing the overall cost of patient participation; it is a transfer between patients, a reduction for the most ill but an increase for the other patients. If not, this bill will increase the cost by 48% and decrease by 30%. In other words, there will be more who need to take on an increase in health costs than others who are reduced or below the roof. The increase is quite extensive, affecting quite a number of patients who are already in the system. This will result in a 31% increase in 85 of you. which are a generalised patient with intercurrent medical costs and an increase of 73% in the 37s. Icelanders who are pensioners, who have medical expenses to pay for them. As noted, around 120 people receive medical care that will undergo direct elevation due to the proposed actions. [[Upward: 120 points.]] 120 you. I'm sorry. What did I say? [[Up to 120.]] Yes, 120 of you. I'd like to say have. Thank you, man. Senator. [[For example: That was well meant.]] Nice, but mean. There are about 120 of you. someone who is directly involved in cost-of-fact because of the tools involved in this bill. Pooled patient costs after change, i.e. individual, approximately 157 may become you. K. every year, i.e. Ninety-five o'clock. K. for health care and your 62 counts. K. as a result of medicines and slightly lower in elderly people and micro-organisms, around 104 you. K. We will not achieve any purpose of liberation, and if this happens, we will only bring burdens on those who might be least. Now, a high rate of health costs has taken place over the past few years. For example, in 2014 there was an increase in health care costs of up to 20%, 15◯20%, and the increases in specialist physicians were much higher. If you go back in time, in recent decades, the costs of patients in Iceland have increased dramatically and have doubled in the last 30 years. It's much higher here than in any other country in the North. It is sobering to consider research or data showing that 3% of Icelanders have stopped seeking medical attention because of the medical cost. In the North, the ratio is 0.5 percent, half per cent, 3% here. This ratio is 6% compared to 0.6% in other countries. This must be a lot of thought and concern. Now the state funds have made hundreds of millions of dollars. with the pay factor system taken up at the 2013 drug cost. However, the economic situation does not result in lower pharmaceutical prices for patients. Today, the State is still going to adjust the payment process for health care, which, of course, should come to a lower cost for patients but will not do so, and that is not the goal, as we have seen. However, it is a fundamental question, a respected president, whether it is reasonable for patients to meet the health costs of other patients. As I said to the minister, health costs do not affect people by any reasonable rules, take no account of economic, social status, age, social status, status, residence, or anything else that determines the ideals of people in daily life. This, however, makes taxes, benefits, and income restrictions, which are independent of health costs, since health problems may affect people of all ages regardless of their economic, social, and otherwise. Hence, it is only right to consider the cost of those most in need of health care to cover those who also need it but to a lesser degree. It will be especially the children who will have that expense, if I correctly understand the information presented in the Peter's report called, e.g. Table on page 24. 12 showing which groups are currently useful to health care. The children of Iceland do not need such expense because today's young generation, which is establishing its children, is the first generation of Icelanders with less value than its parents. Of course, it does tell you what the situation is, the indifference to common well - being in this country. That is why the Icelanders are flocking out of the country, as statistics show that the health system is up, that is a medical emergency in nursing homes, and other things that have gone wrong, and that we have discussed in the last days and weeks. And in many areas a pot is broken, not just in the health and health system. The education system is badly damaged, and our infrastructure, such as the neglect of transportation and the desperate need for maintenance, while looking at the growing efforts of tourism, which are damaging valuable natural bulbs and developed unions in the shelter of an unjust complaint system that guarantees billions of profits while less starving areas. There is a deep and serious problem in Icelandic society and in confidentiality and moral breakdown that extendes throughout the community. That's why it's time and hope later, and I want to discuss it in relation to this bill, that there will be a change of government in the country. If ever there was a need for emphasis on equal policy with the government of the country, it is now. To present the discussion today, e.g. The discussion of the tax industry, in context of baselines that must be present in communities, is a health and health problem in Iceland ideal examples in this context, since possession companies in low taxes undermine the welfare system and a fair exchange of society's burdens. We are biting out of the needle with it in Icelandic society these days. Or don't people see the relationship between the current state of our welfare and the ill - gotten health system, for example, with the tax collections and the fact that no states elsewhere in the North countries have more money compared to a tax scale? The money won't return where it should come from. Therefore, as a community, we find it difficult to respect the principle that those who can pay and those who need to be paid. It is the political project over the next few months, losing to rebuild the welfare system and making sure that community money from resources is being turned into a government fund so that we can have a welfare system. But it's also totally clear, as we can see from this bill, that we such a luxury do not live. The current government has not intended to take advantage of the resources available in our society, since it is offered a bill on the provision of health care costs between patient groups and no evidence that further funds should be spent into our long - term health system, which has been established. There are no national financial programs available, and the numbers are still rising from 90 levels. Icelanders who require extra money to be spent to rebuild this system. But health - free service is a requirement for the future, and it is a matter of justice. This bill is not a matter of non-employment health care. It is only a matter of setting a roof on expenses that may be a good first step, but the fault is that it assumes that the costs to other users of health care. That's why this bill is not in the spirit of the same policy that I personally agree with, and that's why I don't feel that it can be agreed with what it looks like right now. But it is not excluded that this synagogue here, the council, will be able to make some adjustments in the case of a committee. It would have been wish to contribute an ambitious bill with the intention of lowering the general health costs of patients in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u90	Mr. President. We're here on a bill for the health care bill. This case has been in progress for a very long time and has been waiting for a decision from a committee called the late former senator Pétur Blöndalur. I agree with the words of the last speaker and others here mentioned that it is disappointing not to put money into the changed arrangement. Of course, the cow's knife says that governments do not trust in the public in terms of high health costs that have certainly increased much during the past few years. It is of great concern that low - paying people and the public have found it difficult to make ends meet at each month's time to seek health care. I came across this morning a fine piece written by the head of the Projection Society of the Western Society, based on the record that ASI has made on the payment of this system and this new system. I'd like to review some of the facts there. It shows that the costs are being transferred within the system to other users, general users. Of course, that's not necessarily what we want to see but that it's what we want money to come into the system. Admittedly, for those who have to give the highest amount, you may agree that the sum needs to be cut and dropped. But that is not to say that it is reasonable to consider the costs to general users who do not necessarily have the funds or opportunities to meet the high costs. The article says, with the permission of a president: With a new system of credits, a substantial increase in patient costs can be expected. This was shown in the case of Henný Hinz, the economist of ASI, in a lecture on the new health secretary's payment system. Henný pointed out that since 1980 the patient's health care providers had been increasing. By 1980 the government's payout program was about 88% at 12% from the national homes, which had increased until 2016, by which 80% was at 20%, from the homes of the people. The summary confirms that the health - care costs have increased dramatically and will be greatly increased by the production of the new system. As a result, the public in Iceland will be less likely to seek necessary medical or special care for the expense. Looking at the busiest group and seeing whether they are more likely than others to refuse necessary health care, it is found that approximately 6% of them do not attend the appropriate service due to an increase in cost of 0.5◯3% in a comparable population in the North countries. - Now the countries that we often compare ourselves to. Today, patients who need a variety of health services have many system credit systems. - V.I.E.L.L.I.E.L.D. A health minister correctly introduced this and mentioned that today some 40 systems are running. ▪ The result is a high cost to individuals, and it can be said, in effect, that our own responsibilities in the health - care system are very high. The cost may run at hundreds of thousands of dollars, in fact not covered at the expense. Also bad are the systems in that they are limited to the calendar wound, so it is extremely unfortunate to get sick or to have an accident in the late year. The situation creates much inconsistencies as well as with respect to treatment given. The concept of a change in the system depends on creating two systems. One for health care and one for drug costs. This medicine will continue to be extradite to the health care provider they are taking today. What's positive is that physical, speech and occupational training will enter the new system building the payment system over a period of 12 months instead of the emanac wound as it was before. The change will also improve the condition of those who normally require medical care, such as long-term disease. The new system lays the groundwork for a kind of service management system with a reference system. - I agree with that, we left green have long spoken for a reference system and have a positive attitude to that. ▪ It is proper to point out that money - making health care is designed to keep a new reference system in mind. Their role is to be the patient's first stop and to point forward to further service. Because of lack of money, health care will not be able to fulfill the role it should play. In contrast, a minister said that health care should be improved and, of course, you hope that this will be the case. Today, however, health care may not have much room for extra costs. It should be noted that only a portion of the public health care providers have a registered health care professional. - Of course, there's a big problem that may be primarily relevant in the capital area. A break will take months, months, 6 months, and 12 months. Remuneration per month may be 33,600 k, although within 6 months the roof may be 67,700 k. And over 12 months, it will be over 95,200. Those who will have the most protection in the new system can be said to be chronically ill, such as cancer patients and those who suffer from accidents. Of course, I wholeheartedly agree that it was a long time to face long - suffering and cancer patients. The amount of money that they and their families have had to pay is embarrassing to us that it has not been handled earlier. ▪ Children's families will also benefit in any way as the currency becomes simplified and children will benefit more than others except special care. So the system will be very useful to children's families. It's an ASSI assessment, as I pointed out, and hope that this conclusion will go on, though I believe that, of course, the committee and all the sides of the committee and the groups that could be border groups and fall underneath. As this may seem, family members may attend a specialist doctor with or without references. With reference children don't pay anything, but without reference, children pay the same price as old age and disability workers. However, the system also has its own flaws, reflecting mainly that the costs are only being shifted between patients. Of course, there is a big flaw in all of this, and it says that public patients using the service will experience significant increases or up to 31% of expenses, and this is much less. ▪ Among the general patients of the elderly and disability group, the increase will be even greater, with a cost increase of up to 73%. The provision of costs will be despite changes in payment roofs and will affect general health care users. The cost of transport between systems is one of the biggest problems in this new system, but about 85 of you. general users will take on about 31% of expenses and about 37 of you. pensioners will take on about 73% of expenses. Clearly, there are some groups in this 122 you. individuals, especially underpayers and pensioners, will not be able to get the necessary general medical care because of high costs. How would the health - care minister and the health - care minister respond? Of course, this must be done in some way. You cannot see such things without any other action. ▪ Such users may have to pay up to 157,000 dollars. in general health care and pensioners over a period of 12 months up to 104,500 dollars. in general health care for a period of 12 months. It should be noted that this does not include the cost of medical treatment and is therefore added to the cost. Interestingly, psychological services will continue to be left behind in the new payment system, where mental illness is a growing problem in the Icelandic health system. Medical unions and employment responsibly confirm that an explosion is virtually possible due to the increased number of individuals who seek service for spiritual illnesses. These emergency problems are not failed in the new payment system. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken before about that, of course, the goal should be free health care. It is our taxes that should be equal to human costs, where the equation, not our system as it is being done, is going fast and definitely in an effort to provide health free, as are many of our neighbors, who, of course, are largely different. But this is such a big part of household expenses. Sadly, though, more often than not, poor families hold back from attending health care and may take the most important things from those whom they consider to be. It goes on to promote the spread of underlying diseases, the spread of public health, and the general health of the people, under which they are taking a high risk for long periods of time. Since we do not want to see our rich society evolve, poor families and poor older citizens of this land are afraid to attend health - care programs that should be truly available to all and free. We've been putting this into the context of paying taxes to society. When a government tax manager says that today it can be estimated that about 83 billion will be out of the system where taxes are being betrayed, it will result in a loss on the combination and down on the health system, and it will be a complete shame to us and must deal with it. There are many things you can do with that money, whether in your health or elsewhere. The nation's intense appeal to the signing that Kári Stefánsson started tells us that people want people to pay their taxes according to their means and circumstances and to be used in the medical system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u91	Mr. President. I confess at the beginning of my speech that I have not fully studied the innermost points of this matter, but I do feel that men are amazed because we are only in the 1st. Many of the bill looks for progress. One of the things I am delighted with is that, in fact, the worst ill - advised health care is being cut off, i.e. that any group of people can become seriously ill - treated with the health system may suffer from diseases they need to seek medical treatment at the cost of almost all their resources. Have we not seen a powerful example in the media, where people literally have to sell their possessions, lose all they have to pay for expenses? It's not to be seen in a society like ours. Still, this happened because the shift was not in recent years and it was likely decades. Suddenly, we have entered this position, which was unknown in the past. The bill says it's cut, and I'm happy to hear it. As I understand it, it also leads to free service for children who are under 18 years of age, and I welcome it. Third, I welcome the fact that in my bill, I feel like I'm taking steps to pick up a reference system that is needed to get control of our health system. In any case, I'm going to have the luxury of examining this bill with a positive eye, and I encourage members of the Senate to do so. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: In effect, it's not like that the bill could be approved by a single change. A senator could even do that? The result is that 30% of those who have to pay for medical care have a decrease in cost, while 48% have an increase. [[The president calls.]] But can we, who are fighting to get into a free society, not say that this is the first step toward getting into it? If we continue to fight for that, at the top of our professional committee. A minister brings in money to make sure that this 48% does not have to pay more, we have a very good system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I believe it's the highest. A minister has taken the first steps toward that system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u92	Madam President. In this great bell, I step in a pont and answer him. A senator who is very defensive for this matter. This case contains many good things. This work has lasted a long time, but it is not in the same place. I noted that many things are good and enjoyable, as if to get people who have had chronic illness, such as cancer, and the consequences of accidents under this roof. However, the problem of Njörður administration is that the costs to other users of the health system are being considered, who do not necessarily have the opportunity to cope. Even if they do not fall into the group where they go under this roof, there is still a very high percentage of the income they have, which they will have to pay if they attend health care. 85,000 public users will take on 31% expenses and 37,000 pensioners will take on 73% of expenses. I don't think it's justified. Even though much good has been achieved in the bill, much more money is lacking. You can't just stir into the already existing pot, you don't need money in there. I don't trust it until I make sure the government brings more money into it. [[The president calls.]] It would have been necessary to have a national budget, it should have been set up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u93	Madam President. I'm not gonna do any special protection for this bill. I made it clear that I have not developed a final view of it. The bill, however, contains some new instructions that please me. For example, I believe that it was all a disgrace to society that it really happened to a group of people - e.g. The rest of them. A senator mentioned earlier, some with cancer - landed between a ship and a dock in a way that causes the disease to fail. That's not supposed to happen. It's what makes me happy that, according to the bill, it's over. This is a very important step. I also believe that it is important that the bill shows that family members are concerned with the fact that children receive free medical care; they need a reference to experts, but that was one of the things I'm happy about. That's us taking steps to cut off what I thought was the worst scrawl. It's probably not a perfect bill, but it's a step towards a better system. I don't think this government might be very long. Then I think the next government will be waiting, if the bill is approved, to bring the funding that makes this very fine, if the law is going to be. This is by inserting extra money into the health system so that the quality of the bill remains positive, with a reduction of 30% of patients, while the elevation of the remaining to be taken back. I'll be happy to fight for it when we go to campaign campaigns, me and the highest. Minister of health, and we're doing it here after the election... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u94	Madam President. Of course you do. Hopefully, a government that puts health matters first and will show it in financial terms and in the way it spreads its tax burden in the land. It's all holding hands. People want to pay fair taxes compared to income, and people want them to pay in terms of the high cost of health care for the public in the country, wherever people live, wherever they are in life, whether they are adults or children. Such a community would like us to offer so that we can keep the young families of the country, many of which are moving to Northern countries because the social and health systems are very different from what has developed here. In recent years, economic activities have gone on worse. That's a lot of concern. Patients have been increasing their zeal for the past few years. We need to be very concerned about this. I am in the middle of the fact that you can say yes and express joy with things that have been achieved in this matter. It's far from bad. But the big problem is that the cost between health - care users is being shifted, and the cost may be at people who are not paying for it. There is anxiety and will reveal what it will be like. But the main thing is to put more money into the health system and reduce the expense share of the public population. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u95	Madam President. I'm just gonna take part in this discussion. I haven't read the bill yet, but I've done the big one. I'm also saying that the bill is a better one, although, as a means of understanding, I naturally wanted things to be done differently. We represent a different approach in politics, me and the highest. Minister, but I agree with what he's been trying to speak for, that health care is our first stop in the system, and that we need to strengthen that system. Something's started there with psychologists, and it's fine, but we need to do better. It was fine to hear that there will be no compensation for the costs of health care because of the cases presented here. In itself, I don't disagree with Figure 1. ... but I'm worried that there's no doctors, as we know. There is a lack of family doctors. Then I ask: What about people who don't have a family doctor? It is the matter of choosing a price for the service; it may be higher if a health care professional goes to a different clinic or to a local health care professional who is registered to it. That's what I thought about when I was reading this. For number two. Count one. I am very pleased with what it says about the reference. I think it's that way. This is like the optional reference system in Denmark, or toward it. I've been in favor of a reference system and I think we should go further in that direction. This is a step in the direction, and I love to see it mentioned here in order to stop more expensive service. We are, in my opinion, more than anything else to defend our tax dollars. We all agree that there is no more money in the system. That's what we most want to represent, and 90 yours. someone has felt that it is, if we refer to what many have mentioned. That's what I'd like to see on the bill. I agree that it would have strengthened the case if a government budget had been established and we would have seen that it was not just a matter of translocation of funds in the system but that it was talking about an increase in money to the system. That's what I think of bait. It is not unusual for a person to ask himself in a council hall, since all of this is unclear about the Senate: Is this a priority? What do you say we find out about today's priorities? What's it like? It's a 1st. There's 22 days left in the council. We're supposed to be able to do something in a short time, it's quite known. But this is a big deal. True, it has been a work done in a parapolitic conversation, but there were differing opinions. On page 18. 14 is referred to as the effect on different groups. This has been a detailed review of the number and size of payment initiatives and the number of payments that will be reduced. I agree that I like the fact that I'm getting people very ill by reducing their payment, but I say again: I wouldn't have wanted them to go through like this. In the bottom paragraph, it says: It is expected that the payment will be at least 37,000 of the population of elderly and pensioners who use the system at low rates of 503 billion. K. or about 13,400 kns. on average Now we've heard of the fact that people don't go to service because of a bad situation, both in ASI and in conversations with people. It's been postponing medical visits at expense. So can we assume that this is not the case with this group, i.e. that the reason that this group has pursued little service up until now is not that men simply refused to accept medical care? I'd like to see an ASI and the Ministry, a dissociation of this. Maybe she's real, but at least I haven't seen her. As mentioned in the minister's speech, many payment programs are in effect. Although we are starting to clean up, we would have had to go further. about 95 of you. K. - The cost could be 60. K. In addition. At the most, the total cost of the patient may be around 155. K. That can be a big bite for many, especially if it strikes in a relatively short time. I'm happy with payment. It's very important, because I mentioned this number here, that a roof is put on payment. It is long time in view of the fact that people in general are overemphasis. We left the green has spoken of her getting very low. In many respects, there may be a twin population. A health minister has much to quote his mental - health policy, which is discussed in the Committee, but now those with a mental disorder, if I have understood it correctly, are to pay more. A person who is suffering from such an illness has to pay just under 15. K. for the first time he goes to a psychiatrist instead of a 9th count. K. before. That's a big up. We know that the growth of disability is due in many ways to mental illness, and I would have liked to see this service decline significantly and to have preventive measures. There's a lot of things we need to add and change, and I believe that this work will continue on the committee and that we will achieve more, and mostly in the form of funds. Mental and musculoskeletal disorders - these are illnesss that usually cause disability. I would have liked to see the psychowatch as a larger factor; not only that psychologists go under the health care system but also that they'll subsidize the system. When a health minister came to a television interview, I was reminded, this was spoken of by Rúnar Vilhjálmsson, a professor of sociology at the university nursing department. He went over the bill and talked about disability paying more than before single visits to independent experts and hospital specialists, i.e. 2/3 of the common price instead of half. Because we are always talking about this antiquated group and may not be in harmony with what is called for by the people on their signature list and by the people who have told in all surveys that they are prepared to protect their taxes for better and better health care. He says the transfer at the highest. A health minister will challenge the problems of those who have delayed their visit to the doctor. I'd like to go to the highest. Secretary of health will decide if this is the case. I asked if this group was in there before. Rúnar also feels that although the cost has little power, the cost has its power. Is his assessment true that the system is too personal? Would you have to be a special thank - you for your families? I haven't read the document yet, but are you talking about payment for each of you in a family of five? If the family is present at school with young people of 18 in their own age, and all need health care for one year, is it a roof for that family? I hope the Minister can explain it further. There is something else I wanted to ask the highest. A minister about, because we are now both citizens of the country: travel costs outside the home are not involved if I have read correctly, i.e. in the discount card and so. Why not? He can be an enormously heavy bear. We want to build a special health service here in the capital area. In a small community, we can't have many high - tech hospitals, so we all have to go to the Land Hospital for service. I would've wanted to see the cost of traveling in there. I'm asking if I'm right about that. Finally, I want to reiterate that I am, in itself, glad that here are steps. I would've liked to see the money, but not the transfers I'd like to understand. We left greens have dared to speak for paying taxes, including in order to live up to the well - being involved in building up health care. I'm concerned that we have weakened the government's provinces and that we are building our income very much on increasing tourist flows, low oil prices, which have taken considerable interest in business, and then we've been building it on exchange incomes, including the bank tax from the fallen banks. So much has been cut down in the state's income, and I'm concerned because we have a long way to build up the wood, including the health system. Just to have said that, I think we've come to another place if we had not just dropped our government debt but at the same time contributed more money, even more than has been done. At the time of the collapse of the economy, the system was unattainable in 2008. The need was enormous, and it is still as we hear of it. We have good people on a welfare committee that's going into this business, and I trust they're going into the poor business that might be lying there. It seems to me that questions arise about regulations and other matters that I've been wondering about and that will probably be revealed to the Committee's discussion. So I visit those sitting there, including those in the hospital section, as well as the charge section for other services, paragraph 8. for health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u96	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill here to legalize health insurance, health care system. I want to start by thanking the highest. The minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson for this bill, which is a big step for a very many, too many of course, who have to make use of health care in the country. Like all the speakers I hear here, I'm glad this bill is a step in the right direction. They think it's like us. This is a step in the right direction to simplify the payment system. We can all agree on that, that is our will, and we will show that we want to increase our money to the health system as we have done in the three years that this government has been ruling. There's no dispute. We're talking about that when we agree with this bill, 30% of patients will have fewer services, but the bill is suggested to adopt a new health - care system and a set of the maximum monthly health insurance payments. The bill also includes measures relating to the health care management system that usually aims to be the first patient's place of care. This is exactly the key to this bill and a very important point, promoting health care. A minister has shown that he is doing so, preaching it, and this certainly is a source of great joy. I think this applies to all of us and is in all the families we know so that someone has suffered from an untimely illness and needs a lot of service. It is not just a breakdown of health but often collapses of the family's financial foundation at the same time. Hospitals are inaccessible, and the cost is irreprehensible. This bill responds to this. I think all of us in this room must celebrate it and win this case. I think we'll also agree that in the future, when we have experience with this system, we'll want to add money to it. The system aims that health care will not provide more than a fixed maximum amount for health care that will be determined by law and to level the burden of health care care. The monthly bill for payment and cost over payment will be placed on health insurance. Peak wages are expected to be lower in older, micropierc, and paediatric patients. In addition, children who consult an independent healthcare professional with a reference from a clinic or family doctor may receive free service. It's also an enormously important point that many have entered here, a strong point in this bill. This aims to protect patients from high health - care costs. The decision to make payment is made on the bill to take into account the health insurance paid during the previous months and thus aim to balance payments and avoid high pay paids at the beginning of the year. This does not take into account the years of the year in which the next months are considered at the time of the patient's meeting. He does not have to start a new year by making discounts, as we know at the cost of medicine and so on. Here, too, an important step is taking forward to reduce the payment of these people. Health care costs are expected to be distributed in a way other than the current health care system so that less paid by health care professionals than those requiring high health care care. This is one of the key points in the bill that has also been discussed. I can totally agree with that. The speakers who have spoken before it's important that once we've mastered this system, we'll do our best to make those we now add a little more burden, those healthy who need less on the system will later sit at the same level they've done today and we'll reduce the price of the service. I think we can agree on that. I think this bill is setting up a more just and logical system. This maximises the payment of patients and the elderly, the poorer, and the paediatric population. A big issue is also the simplicity of the financial system of experts. It is always the standard for a person to seek first the medical services. The present system is complex and unjust. As we have seen, this is the case in the Sermon on the Mount. Ministers at the beginning of these programs have over 40 different systems of payment with different discounts. By moving it into one simple and simple system, we are answering the call for a righteous system. We're talking about the maximum pay every month. It has also shown that there is a need for the psychowatch into this bill. I can agree with that, but the Minister has a bill in progress about that team and, of course, we will consider the treatment whether we can add them to or how we can meet the group that is certainly very important, as presented here. We must guard those whose heads are black today. Of course, they are new to the art of disability, and that is a task that must be taken seriously. There is fertile soil at the council for reducing the public payment of the system, increasing the service, and increasing efficiency. Of course, there are also many things that we need to consider in our health care. There is a call for more money to be paid, and this is especially done in the country. Now that we have room to improve the quality of our health care, we need to look back to the land area that has had to be done considerably by the service that we find self - determination and self - determination in the past. There I find delivery services and obstetrics are the most important factors we need to look into in the country. I know and believe, and I trust the minister is looking into them because they burn on people. Young people today, like the rest of us who had our children at home, want to stand in their own home. I sense that there is tremendous pressure on that subject and that I agree with it. We are discussing the pressures in the community face - to - face with increased money in the medical system, and I rejoice that thousands of Icelanders signed a challenge to us to increase money to health care. I think it's a sign of it and I'll show us in this house that we need to take it very seriously. We will, we will listen to them voices. It is for us to show in the future that we take note of the time when people point their concerns to us and encourage us to act as a health keeper. I know it's going on, hopefully, planning health programs for the next year. Of course, we also need a long-term health plan, a view of where we are going to go, and how we want to see a new and better system of service to the inhabitants of this country. Finally, I rejoice over this bill. I can't wait to talk about it at any point. The welfare committee. We'll be happy to take this project, and soon solve it with dignity and efficiency, and I hope for spring this bill will be legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u97	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for his speech. I'd like to say in the beginning what. A senator came on a number of points that I agree with him, thinking that we might be contrary to a view of the community in various ways, depending on what needs to be improved and where the emphasis needs to be. As an example, I would like to mention it. A senator mentioned, such as the country's home and increased service there, and that psychological support needs to be made into the medical profession. Hv. A member of the council also came into his case with the appeal that has been made for higher money in health care. Hv. In fact, a senator himself said that he needed extra money into the system. I'd like to ask for a reason. A senator whether he is willing to join us, who have spoken of the need to raise taxes in order to raise money so as to be able to include the health system in a discussion about this. That's what I'm talking about. A senator for that? Wants to play. A senator raises his taxes so that we can strengthen the health system as I believe it is at least needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For these questions, Árnadóttir's annual daughter's stone. She is certainly right that we have often taken the same steps. The welfare committee. We have a pleasant and satisfying cooperation there. We're interested in the country, the Soul Guard, and a call for more money. For example, I've seen that there is also more money in the nursing homes and more things that we're not talking about right in those words. In terms of raising taxes, I say that I think it's most important to us that we add to the social value. It is the task of increasing riches and making the cake bigger. By doing so, the matter is not necessarily about how much we take of the cake but about how valuable we get from the food we have divided. It's not necessarily 11% of the cake. It may be that 8% of the cake will be much higher than 11% today. I don't want to talk to any more taxes because I think there's a lot of opportunities in the community, in the business world, to increase production and value. In this way, we are expected to collect additional income for the health - care system. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u99	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his answer, although I must admit that I have some frustration. A senator I know is very interested in health and welfare matters should not exist in order to prevent a rise in taxes. Not all taxes need to be raised, but there are a number of tax reforms. Because of it. I must admit that I believe that the political origin of the 21st century is quite narrower than the generations before us in politics. It's simply my belief that if we're going to master the big environmental issues that are moving toward us now, e.g. By global change, global warming, and climate change, we cannot allow ourselves to extend the cake indefinitely. Now it's only time for us to split equal shares. That's my point of view. Hv. A senator certainly gave me an honest answer, he doesn't think we need, if we're serious about it and we want to look into things in the big context, to think of other ways than just to try to expand our economy, thus creating more money to include the welfare system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For these questions, Þóra's annual daughter's Árnadóttir. I don't think she should be disappointed that I don't really want to raise the taxes. I just want to point out the way I mentioned, to increase the value. In recent years, we have watched the seabed in Iceland increase its value in a vastly larger way, while we are walking on a global change in that regard. There, builders and fishermen have taken the lead, and new sea resources are much better than any other nation does. By doing so, we increase our value. I also remind you that we have a lot of renewable energy. I agree with what. There is still considerable opportunity to increase the value we make in the country. You say I'm just looking at the growth of the cake. Do we, though, more likely to invent new taxes? I think it's very important that taxes are moderate in our people and in our jobs, and then we enable them to increase their value, produce more, as we have done in our health. Part of the values we have is to produce more valuable things in the health system with increased efficiency and production that are so important to all of us in the business world. I think we could make a lot of money together without adding a price on the people in the country, at least While the opportunities are so great.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u101	So do I.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u102	Of course, everyone has to participate. I completely agree with that, the companies and the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u103	A respectable president. I've had a lot of strange feelings while I've been going to the council. Now we sit here and talk about 1st. A fine language that is both important and interesting and certainly valuable to the discussion taking place here. When you start to get deeply involved in the situation and start to form a lot of opinions and are really interested in it, you hear the drums out there. You look out the window and you see a group of people with the red card. It's come together, not to protest this case, but to protest our seat here. I think it's a strange feeling to sit here and look into this important thing as we're used to getting used to it, like the job we're doing here, which is important, should get used to being always in protests.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u104	A respectable president. I am glad that this matter has entered the council. I think this is a good step, but again, it's just a step in the right direction. I agree with what has been said here in talks that the roof is too high. It may not be for everyone, but it can be very easy if many family members get involved in it at once, for example. in one year or the period in question, need to have tests and medical care. I think the job we all have to do must be to reduce that cost. But it's totally unacceptable, as the situation is today, that there's just some hippos depending on the disease it receives each of its costs in the system. There is something that we have an obligation to respond to. That's why I'm actually happy about this. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the people on this committee. I know it was a lot of work. In the bright future, we had a member of the Committee. It's unpaid, as is often the case with a job like this. I'm reading the report here, and there's been a discussion about the others and these editions. This is logical, and I like to read this report, a new system of payment: The main points to study in the development of a global health - care system, in March 2015. You can see that there are various ways in which you have been examined, and there are logical support, and since then in some cases you have just voted that the result of the group should come. What we all agree on, all classes, and the highest. Similarly, a minister has emphasized that it is extremely important to promote health care and to look for the resources to be the cheapest option. There are some attempts to do so. I don't think it's an easy assignment. I think all classes are ready to come to that and put ideas in that place. I like to put psychologists in the clinic, I think it's very important, but I'd also like to mention other experts, which I think are as important as these are nutritionists. We are, like most Western countries, in effect, that life - style disorders are common. They are costly, obesity, and other factors that may be caused by the wrong diet and immobilisation, the diseases that can, in fact, be prevented but have both health costs and, of course, harm to those patients involved. When you read about people who managed to change their lifestyle to eat from drugs, you wonder: " Why don't we put powder and money into it right away? No matter what they do, some may need to be on antihypertensive medication, but we also know that life - style is important. Not that everyone knows what's healthy and what to eat, and everyone can just go for a run tomorrow. People need help, and we're supposed to give it to them. We could say that these are prevention measures, and there I would like to see the health care system come in much stronger. I never remember that anyone I know was sent to a nutritionist, someone who has come to health care with their problems that even in some cases are caused directly by the wrong diet and the wrong way of life. This service is out there, but we should bring it into the clinic and be much more effective in helping people to help themselves. Not only must we assume that everyone knows what is good. I could conduct a long lecture here on what food means often incomprehensible, and in some cases the availability of the situation is almost better than that of wholesome food. The food is also often less expensive because sugar is an inexpensive filler and tax on it was reduced here, happy memories, I wasn't quite satisfied with it. This step seems to me to be an attempt to take more control of children I also think is a step in the right direction. I don't know if I'm supposed to talk about a reference system, but it's supposed to direct people to the cheapest resources, to a good alternative that would be then health care, and from there people would be steered into other systems instead of today being able to go where they choose. Sometimes what is going on may not be too obvious. Perhaps there were doubts about the medicine system when I was recorded at the time when I experienced that it was then effective. As explained here, there is more uncertainty about the route decided to take than the payment process, i.e. The path that has been chosen is the way of which Blöndal H. Senator, actually designed. Also, his part of this must not be forgotten. It has been an enormous amount of work, and it seems amazing to me that humans have, though more and less, managed to resolve a solution that was reasonably acceptable, even though there are certain members here who support their stand on this matter. It's also good that then only a vote was paid to reach a conclusion. It's democratic. It's decided to follow a path that goes along with some uncertainty issues, but I think it's inevitable. We need to take this step and be prepared, since some bait may have to be removed. I think it's worse if we're going to be incredibly critical at first. If we don't see the baits, they'll probably show up in the narrative process, we'll try, but we'll be prepared, because we may need to change this. The General may have to make some changes, and we will. It's worse to always be so afraid to do something that you're putting off everything. Thank you for getting this case into the council. I am happy about this, though, that, as I repeat, I feel that the cost to the full is up to 1,660 thousand that a person may have to pay to a maximum in one year, which is then both for drugs and for other aspects of the health system. I think we all agree that the project is reducing that cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate that it's a little strange to be standing here like being a senator, which I don't think they do. I briefly mentioned earlier that it is a special feeling to read this fine thing and to form an opinion of it and then be disturbed by the drum beat here outside and red cards to us, and pretend that nothing ever happened. I feel that it is worth mention of at the outset of a talk that I am going to try to keep more material than ever before on the subject under consideration. We're on 1st. So there's not always so much to say about it unless, of course, you celebrate the issues involved, end up having a pretty big case of health insurance. As I understand this bill now, the idea is to reduce the number of costs of people experiencing extreme fluctuations when they make use of health care, so the goal is very positive in my opinion and as far as I can see it. I find it logical from the ideologies that we as a community should help one another that people who need to use the system a lot and often get more help than people who need it very little and rarely. I think it's a fine and respectable thought. I had a short conference before. 3.m. Reykv.. As for reference systems, and I have to admit that I do not know that seminary very well yet. But I find this solution in the reference system interesting and demeaning though I have little concern that if they develop suspicions about how references work, they can have some negative side effects about how people use their ministry. Of course, the goal of the bill, as far as I can see, is to make it easier for people to find the right course within the medical system to make the most effective and practical use of the ministry. Therefore, it is not concern that in itself would oppose me but, rather, something that would have to be drawn into and guided by the work of the bill, so that we will be prepared if it comes up. I hope it doesn't happen. But we are a small country, and there are a number of things that happen in the small community that do not necessarily happen in larger nations. A person's relationship, especially in smaller places, can have some effect there, and it is worth the fact that we can discern in advance what can happen. Then we will likely react, either in committees, in the discussion or in the event of any such anxiety. It was mentioned in previous talks that the system was out of control, which I find an interesting description. It must cost a lot, not just in money, but in the effectiveness of the system, and eventually get down on the service itself if people go to the wrong places to get help. In fact, when I began to read about it and to listen to talks, I was a little worried about it and still a little worried that people would be reluctant to take advantage of the ministry. But after closer examination, they become less anxious. I agree that this is the best case that comes with a positive review of comments. I look forward to reading reviews, for they often shed a very clear light on something that you do not necessarily see when you read a subject, even though many times you assume that you have knowledge that you do not necessarily have. In my answers, before what? 3.m. s.. The reference system was called a land minefield, which I find interesting and is in line with my earlier concerns. After my brief review of the matter, and after hearing speeches, I did so. I find the matter logical and obvious to be the result of a lot of work, for which I respect it and understand the need to make changes in the chapters. The bill itself is not very important. Rather, it is the paper and the accompanying documents that make it a bigger matter, rather than just the legal branches themselves. Here are some things that are applied to Regulation and not by law, which is normal. Yet, there is one thing I would like to mention, just to have mentioned it, and not because I have no particular concern about it. It is a health - care arrangement. It is a health data or a basis for central health care laid to become 29. B in the health insurance laws. It gives the responsibility to operate a health insurance database with information on the health insurance payment needed by the health care system and for some totally legitimate purposes as far as I can see it. It gives you comfort to see that this appears to be the same approach as in current 29. a in the same law on the central medication database. The first time I read that, I wondered, " Why didn't men just change 29. a. According to one report, people wanted these systems to be separated. I don't know if it matters what information technology is used or how rules make it necessary to be two separate articles for this. But it gives you comfort that this is really a copy on when an updated way of handling these data, which I assume is okay. Of course, saying so, we are following the Persian protection. But after my brief review of this article, I see no danger beyond what is expected from the collection of personal information in general. Then, of course, there is strong stress that this is in accordance with a personal protection law, and there is no need to mention it specifically in my opinion, that is simply probably. I wanted to draw attention to this because there's always a tendency to use information technology a lot in our society. It is basically good when it comes to solving a lot of problems, but it is always important to keep in mind that the more we use it and the more we gather with it, the more difficult it will be to see over time how much information is available about us all over the world. This does not mean that we should not use technology, which means that we must be on guard. As mentioned earlier, I do not have any particular concern but will be able to observe the history of Perconteurism and the discussion on this subject. Another thing I don't know is whether there's already been a snout in places I don't know about the information that's been going on there. It is important, then, that we also keep in mind the phrase of a new law on the use of information technology, that we realize what the situation is then and immediately. Although it is comforting to note in paragraph 29. a is a central provision based on implementation that is expected to have been tested for a period of time, but does not automatically mean that everything is okay. There are a wide range of pots in the management of community data, including the state and all countries using information technology at a different level. Therefore, it is worth keeping in mind where you already have information and how it will be used. It tells itself that there are also some information on the type of service that a person or a member is seeking and that has become very fragile. Again, I agree that this is a good thing. People have talked about taking steps. I think it's normal for these things to be taken step by step. I think it's easier for the discussion. When new total laws come in here into large cans, it makes it much more difficult for me to deal with than if it's in pieces that change the law. Of course it can be reasoned, but at present I find this logical step. True, I would like to hear more about the criticism people have, especially 2 Corinthians. After reviews have been received, she has been given the opportunity to speak with experts and others. There's not much more for me to say about this matter at this time, a respectable president. I appreciate the discussion, but I'm afraid if we're going to get used to the challenge of continuing counciling on such matters as these that are important, under the beatings and protests from the East Field. This is important to me because these matters are important because it is important that we talk about them here and have time and space to discuss them. We should not pretend that nothing has happened, and we should not act as if there are no people outside protesting. We should not act as if we are sitting here on account of all the people of the country in order to continue our affairs in the circumstances that have been created by recent events. I think it's important that you have regular talks for me. Senators. Clearly, we need to be able to handle such matters in such a situation to reason them out, not just with one another in here, but with the people outside. I think if I went out of the house and was going to talk to individuals out there on this matter, it would be very difficult. I don't think the focus will go into the public case when there's such a disagreement. And the trouble is because we're sitting here. It's not necessarily because of everything we do here, it's because we're sitting here without an election. It's distracting. It bothers me, when I was reading the case. I don't blame the protesters, but it does, and we shouldn't pretend. But, as I said, I was going to try to hold this speech more materially, and I think I have. Given that it will not be under the endless appeals we are sitting here, I look forward to discussing the matter further on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u106	V.E.G. President. That bill for law to the highest. Health Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson has proposed a change in health insurance law, No. 112/2008, with subsequent changes, is about the maximum pay of health care and services control. For one thing, I'd like to say that I am very happy that this bill has been released, but I must also express my sadness over it in terms of the situation in society and at the General Assembly. After an amazing last week of Iceland's political history, I'm afraid the General will not be able to complete the bill for the rest of his time. It's a big, important bill, a lot of good things in it, the idea, and more, even though I'm initially going to describe my warning of further implementation, perhaps especially from the fact that the bill shows that the health insurance pays 6.5 billion a year as a part of health care in the country. When we read comments to the bill - very good in my opinion, a lot of information is packed up after the work of a committee as a boy. paritaprevir The late Blöndal H. Memorial, blessed as his memory, worked long as it was - shows that in November 2007, the current health and insurance minister appointed a committee to make suggestions more righteous, simpler, and beneficial participation in drug and other health - care costs. There was a controversial senator, Dr. Pétur H. Blöndal, in charge of the committee, who worked until the end of 2008. Then the collapse comes. In May 2013, a new system of medicinal products based on the work of the Committee was set up for the pharmaceuticals. I'll get to it later if I have time. On August 28, 2013, a health minister appointed a committee to see if the medical, pharmaceutical, research, physical training and other medical costs could be met under one subsidies and decontraction procedures. I think it's so exciting at the bill, that we're gonna take advantage of creating a system like this, 330 yous. a nation, a number of people in small cities, all around us. This is exactly what I think it should be so easy for us Icelanders to do, to create a whole, complete system. We have an enormous amount of human resources to create all kinds of systems to be just a computer system. When we go to a doctor or have to go to a hospital or a specialist, it is actually possible to do so by means of the only lack of health every Icelandic person gets, an electronic card, where there may be various grounds in it, that when the person comes to a doctor or a specialist, that information should be complete and that the person doesn't have to tear up the wallet every time he comes in, that it is simply the payment of that section, is done in a central system. I believe, more dignified President, that this is possible. I'm going to quote one recent example, which was a wonderful transfer of the tax system to the governor and others regarding the system set up at the time of their debt to the country's home by means of these payments on what was available there. I'm not going to discuss it any more, nothing to go into, or anything like that, but it was very good, and it shows what we can do, this small nation, in the tax system. It is enough to remind you of tax returns that almost everything is programmed in and that the person needs only to agree with the tax returns, and that is the result. I allow myself to think, more honorable President, that we are among the best of the world in this respect, and at the correction, it was done as I said. Then I come to that and say, " Why shouldn't we be able to do so in the health - care field too? ' I think it's possible. But I reiterate this warning that the cost of the event is, you know, 6.5 billion a year with people, it just seems to me that it's too high. I agree with what some of my fellow members have said today: I think our goals in Iceland and our peers are, and we're supposed to be able to unite about it, no matter where they are - I see that two senators outside the hall smile very much and look at each other, and others - we're supposed to be able to unite in a certain number of years, we're going to go down to have it as it is in Denmark and Norway and other places, as is done in the paper project with the bill, to the bill, to get away from these 6.5. A respectable president. What number is 6.5 billion? In a quick mind account, I think it's about 7.5% of what the governor of state told last night that there was a tax cut in Iceland. He thought it was about 80 billion bucks. The figure can be inserted into a number of things without exaggerating political wounds or political discussions. To illustrate, this figure has disappeared from the tax system during this terms in one way or another, in various adjustments made or modifications made, so the amount is not higher than that. The bill refers to what is referred to in the report of Pétur H. Blöndalur, i.e. what it's like in the North. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In Norway and Sweden, users pay a fixed centennial for health care based on medical records covering the total cost each year. Finland has a similar arrangement, but the share of the services of independent experts is paid. In Denmark, general health services are free of charge, but such as the cost of pay is needed. for expert services if brought without reference. Compared to this, the current network in Iceland is complex and relatively omnipotent. I'm sure I agree. This is also seen in the report on the Regulation published on the health - care price payment of health care professionals. A respectable president. May I also remind you that I used to do this council earlier, reminding me of the work of the council, that there were a few cases published in the media of the payment of cancer victims in Iceland. May I also remind you of the words that Icelanders living abroad have had that they were so lucky that when they were sick, they lived in that country, not in Iceland. I took numbers here that I'm sorry I didn't have at hand right now, but there were very high numbers of participation. Hv. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir did this too. I remind you that this is one of the biggest vices I feel in Iceland today, that when people are diagnosed with cancer or other serious diseases, it depends on the economy whether they can get to a doctor or not, or whether they put their accounts upside down against getting sick. We must be able to unite in what I said at the beginning that the payoff will be zero. It's the perfect Scandinavian Norse Health System we want to compare with. Let's do this over the years. Let's see if we can work something out to make that happen. I'm just going to shoot in here, a respectable president, because in the discussion of the cost of cancer patients, I was so scared. I had, in fact, done this once before that a panel after a meeting held in the Harpa with an organization there, i.e. sick young people, very good meetings, and then I made this a subject, and I say it's supposed to disappear. I have proposed to the General Parliament a bill for an increase in the balance of the beds approved during the last term, which is 100 k. Nightly, bedside unit. That's 300 million. K. My bill was about raising the host's fee to 750 bucks. and record 300 or 350 k. fees for homemaking and other accommodations, such as camprooms and other items. This was to be given $2.3 billion. It was thought of as a first campaign because so many years have passed that nothing has been done and a part of it was needed to go to rural society. Why am I bringing this up right now? Yes, because when I made the bill, I was just as determined when financial contributions were made at this council to make a change proposal to make 850 million. K. which the government provides for the tourist fund, because the government has not agreed on or could not, will be the ultimate scandal. We're going to get this tax from the people who come to the country to build up wood - that's 850 million. K. which the government has twice, in two budgets, added to the tourist fund, would fall down and run to reduce the payment of cancer patients and other long-term patients immediately. That's where I'd like to point them out at 850 million. K. And 850 million. K. Of the 6.5 billion, approximately 15% of these are in quick mind accounts. A respectable president. I'd like to say about the bill that these are good ideas, and it's worth it. We need to give this time. I'm afraid of the Generals' time shortage to finish this big deal we're supposed to make. I told you before about dates that, of course, it's taken too long. I've also been preparing queries to the highest level. A health minister I haven't been able to contribute to Iceland on a number of pharmaceutical purchases. I say it because I have heard of someone I know who knows well so that a stent purchased for Iceland is used in heart compressions where blood vessels, arteries, are at about 90 yours. K. Iceland, but a similar network in Norway, rather than Sweden, costs about 30 measures. K. Then I ask, "Who gets the difference?" I ask the same questions in my mind as to what it takes to buy the Land hospital. At times, it has been discussed that the National Hospital should simply move in himself, take up cooperation with a large hospital in one of the neighboring countries, one of the Scandinavian countries that we have a great deal of cooperation with. I ask what would be the cost of the government, the Land Hospital, much by doing this and by passing medication, perhaps putting too much on, perhaps too little by their opinion, but the state funds pay the bill. These are some things we should include in the discussion and see how we can cut down without cutting off the service, such as the cost of buying medication, to include it in reducing the expense of patients, this 6.5 billion. A respectable president. I have mentioned two points in this 15 - minute talk. I don't have a place on a welfare committee, so I haven't put myself in much of this bill and a nice memo published by ASI. But I had a place on a welfare committee when the cost of medicine was changed. I'll be happy to admit, sir, that I think the timing was bad, especially in terms of elections, and I can quite say that at that time the government would become a major campaign and trouble answering questions to voters who would normally want to know about this new system of payment. Now I don't know if a welfare committee has taken that up to review the experience that this has proved to be, needs to improve something. I say for what I'm saying, I'm still hearing people who don't disagree with the climax, it's not 45 yous. K. Something like that? But I hear people talking about all the drugs that aren't in the credit system. Antihypertensives, heart medicine, I don't know what the whole thing is, I don't mean to go into it, but there are certain groups of medicines outside of this that make them people who need them have been severely elevated. No doubt others had a shrink. My last words, a respectable president, are: This bill is worth all the attention. It would be better if we had more time to win it. [[The president calls.]] I don't know if we can finish it, I'll let me doubt it, because it's a big deal. But hopefully it will, because I think we're taking a step in the right direction, but restate my opinion that the ultimate goal is to cut down the patient's credits and that the health services will really be free of charge for individuals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u107	Madam President. I'm glad we're here at the Generals to discuss this matter and to the highest degree. A minister has already made that effort after all the previous hard work. I'm glad we're discussing it here. I hope we can do it fast and fast and that we can accept it by the end of the council, i.e. If so, there are no marvelous flaws. We in a bright future have long known about this matter. We've had a good agent, Sigrún Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, who has informed us about the situation and developments. I believe that the committee worked well and in a very enlightened way on this matter. We have learned that the members of the committee agree greatly and were able to resolve their differences successfully. Without talking to them, I understand that they were happy with the results. What it's all about is that my knowledge is that we're primarily here dealing with a system modification of a bad system. I'm glad we're attacking her. The payment program is too much for me, but there may be other discussions. Here we are discussing a system change that involves equalizing the load, equalizing the cost so that the person with certain diseases, such as has been discussed, e.g. cancer, and having to go to imaging and treatments for some reason, I don't know why, end more on the patient than if he had any other disease--I'm just not well enough about who doesn't have to pay, but we know that, for example, those with cancer have to carry up to 1 million and pay from their own pockets. What has happened is that many kinds of medical funds have come to grips with the weather to help people survive this expense. Corporate unions have added to a medical fund so that people can access it. People buy higher health insurance to earn it if they get sick. It's not supposed to be like this. I think we agree that we want it to be like that in Iceland that people don't have to pull out their wallets all the time and even take drastic measures like selling houses, or what do I know, if they detect certain diseases. That's why it's good for us to have this bill that's suggesting a change in it. There is also another matter that we need to discuss, and it is urgent that the payoff is too high and that it needs to be detracted. What I also read from this bill is -- I hope I read it right, or I hope to the highest. Minister, come here and correct me. He's at the discussion, and I really appreciate it -- that it's a bit of a dual. On the one hand, this system change, and it seems to me that a certain reference system is being introduced. - I hear that's a yes. That project has lay ahead, and you have not really understood that it has not come through before. I am so happy that I have come to see it. We know that the system today is too costly. It's too expensive for Icelandic taxpayers. Although it is most convenient for each of us to consult the experts we want, that service is too expensive for us as taxpayers. In the end, it's the taxpayers who pay it through Iceland's Medical Insurance and it's important to direct access to these more expensive systems. To that end, we have clinics and family doctors who are to filter out, and then continue to point out if they see that their illness is bigger than those at home at their table. They're referred to correct measures, and I'm glad it's in here too. What's not in here and I miss a lot is psychological and psychiatric cost, all the expense to those who get sick from mental illness. We know that one third of those in disability is there because of mental illness. If we were to save and at the same time make people feel better, how wise it would be to help people better and to have that medical cost free, psychological cost, for that would bring the more active members of society back into society! People want to pay taxes and shoulder their duties, people want to be active members of society rather than in disability. It is extremely important that this service and this cost be included in Iceland's Medical Insurance. This is what I feel is missing in this bill, but I know we don't do all of a sudden. The fact is, it's such a big deal, and we're always getting more aware of it, but it's not just a good thing to change the way I've talked about it, but it just makes us feel, uh, sens, sorry, Madam President, that I'm hanging up, just on our books here. I don't have a place on a welfare committee right now, but I spent my first two years there at the council. Of course, people there are very aware of this. I'd like to refer to the committee after this discussion if she might be able to offer some additional suggestions that have to do with the expense of mental illness. We know that it may cost them something extra, and I know that the suggestions on the table should not have extra money for the state fund, but also, if we think a little further, we might argue that if we direct people more into the clinic, into cheaper resources, we should be saved somewhere else, i.e. with expert experts, and while the people here often don't like the idea that making money out of a government fund, I would feel that there would be good reason to believe that the estimated savings would be going to pay back what people pay for their mental illness. This is an introduction to the work of the Committee, and I hope those who listen to me and sit there can take it into the committee. There's one thing about this bill I'm staying at, and it's in 1st. 1st par. I'd be the best. Minister would appreciate it if he came up and explained something to me there. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The decision to obtain a higher price for the service goes to a health - care center or to a medical clinic that has been registered. I'm sure it's some staging point, but I'd like to roll it up here. We know that the situation is so difficult for people above the family doctors to get to the home clinic, we know that if you are going to go to some service at a clinic, you have to have a registered health care professional there. I can tell you one good story about myself. I've moved to another neighborhood. The health care center is better for me, and there I am with my children on baby care, but no family doctor can welcome us there because he is not there. There's something off there, nobody's gonna work there. But it's not in the country. It's just up in the Whale Search. We won't be able to find out. If I don't get my service there, if I take myself as an example, am I in danger of paying more, or what? It's stuck in the eyes right there at 1st. 1st par. and we know that this is not an isolated situation between me and my family. People find it hard to get to a family doctor. You can certainly hold on to it if you're in one place. Because I came down from Bishops, I didn't let my family doctor go, he knew me and my medical history, and all that. Although I was in Reykjavík at 16 years of age, I was always there. If I hadn't shown up to him and it would have been done, wouldn't I have had the right to get this tournament from health care? I'm thinking of some who are then in a situation similar to what I was then. I just want to hear about this from a minister if he wanted to be so kind as to respond to this. If this is not a problem, it is something the committee takes into its work. I'm going to state that this may be a bit written out, that I haven't had time to do enough over all the data of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u108	A respectable president. I decided to say goodbye today because I'm on a welfare committee, but I have to agree with them. Councilmen who have spoken before and mentioned how uncomfortable it is to stand here today discussing these matters in the light of the unprecedented events that have taken place in the community. I also wondered how we should handle this matter, as I now find myself in trouble. Its well - being committees, with 23 cases on the table and many of enormous importance, are merely the housing and action plans and the mental health policy, which is of utmost importance and that we complete at the spring Summit. Therefore, it would have been very appropriate today on the first day of a new government that it was announced how a work programme should be conducted. There is no work schedule, and it's all up to the point that's really hard. It's very hard to see how we're going to split it. What issue does the government emphasize? I naturally know that this case is an extremely positive and positive step because the system we have lived under is natural and has resulted in enormous costs for many families, especially for those who suffer from severe health problems. That is why it is extremely positive that costs should be down, although I feel very negative that no money has been added, it's just moving, there's a system modification in this. It's not like they're putting more money on the system that's really depressing. I also rejoice that I will not promote the health care that is naturally one of the most important things we can do in Iceland's medical affairs. This has been shown before in the matter of why. Parliaments to improve, e.g. Psychological services, along with nutrition experts on health care, deal with the problems we are most facing today, mental health, and even obesity and other lifestyle - related issues. It would probably cut long-term costs, e.g. reduce the cost of expertise, which is enormous. There's a lot of superfluous money that goes into the specialists and specialists in Iceland, adventureful sums that could probably be lowered if this were done. These are actually prevention, too. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir named before the psychiatric disorders, which are enormous today. I'm really worried about them. Although this positive step is being taken, there is an overwhelming large number that lands outside the park, including 6 you. children who suffer permanently in Iceland, as reported in the UNICEF report. This is the very group that is reluctant to go to the doctor. That's four of you. Older citizens living in hunger zones. They also hold back from seeing a doctor. Although their medical expenses may not be very high, they do not go to the doctor. In all the haystacks before the New Year's Eves, you got calls from older citizens who said they didn't have medical care and medication because they didn't have money to do that. I'd like to agree too with what. Congress officials who have come to see us in this country should live in practically medical care. A nation so rich in resources both for the sea and for the country should not have to let people pay large amounts for medical expenses. For example, you look at Denmark. I remember when I lived until a short time, the first thing we had was a map you showed every time you needed a doctor. Of course it should be in Iceland too. I also wondered, because there was no more money involved and money involved not only these changes but also because they were supposed to be system changes, how we get more money. This government has been extremely busy giving up money. It is the resource payment in the fishing road or the fishing fee, the reduction in income tax, the fortune tax laid, 80 billion in debt corrected by absurd decision, instead of using it to build up Iceland's health and welfare systems. We should be in a different position today, and we shouldn't even have to be talking about it. This bill should be long done if we had done this. But it's like this. There are different priorities. The government has set priorities for those with enough resources. That's a fact. Sadly, those with less possessions and including health care in the country will be affected. I'm still gonna be positive. This is a positive step. We need to continue in full - time service to reduce this cost, to reduce payment, and to allow everyone to have the best possible service. We've been able to do that. I'd like to point out your six. The inhabitants of the country are waiting for action, so there are a number of steps to take. There's plenty of work to go on. But this is a positive step, so I'll say it one more time. It's also positive to install a database, I think it's extremely important to have it all on one hand. I had a question for Ministers not long ago, since we were just talking about a database that held, for example. those who need tools, car parking cards, and so that they won't have to apply forever. I'm saying we're also supposed to go to the end of the game, catchin' tax collections and embezzlers from Iceland's taxes. It is said that there are 80 billion a year of fraud from taxes, only in Iceland, apart from the most recent discussions at the council, the Afghans, and those who make money in Iceland. How shameful! That is what makes it impossible for us to run a decent society, a perfect welfare society. If there's something we're supposed to get together about, they're gonna attack this disaster and get the people who have their money in the islands and the tax machines to drive them home to join in the community and build them up with us who are trying to run a good community. But we do not do so when we are with people who are willing to betray the nation by having their money elsewhere. That's what we should do. If we did, we should be able to run a perfect health and welfare system, free of charge, and take it easy. We need money from those who own it in Iceland. There are plenty of people who have money in Iceland, and especially those who have access to our resources and who do not pay fair money to society. That's what we're supposed to do. Then it's not a problem. But I'm worried about how we're gonna work this thing out on a welfare committee because there's a lot on the table, like housing and other things. I especially mention mental health policy at the highest. Minister. We'd have been able to finish this week if this wasn't all there would have been. I'm not gonna lie on my team to do this whole thing. This is good. It's a good first step, but we can't relax, we're just going to keep going on a big beat.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u109	V.E.G. President. In my first speech, I said that I wanted to come up here and discuss a little more about the witnessing system. I went over it earlier that Iceland has called attention to the special status of not having any service control, but with the bill it is being authorized by the Minister to implement such management and under the regulations provided by the reference system for children of the Icelandic Health Organization. There may be many reasons for such things. I think it's very good that we start taking that discussion seriously, but I'm also concerned that the health insurance law gives the Minister its own high power to make policy decisions on health matters, and here we are moving clearance to the reference system without knowing exactly when it's supposed to happen or how it's going to be thought. It has been welcomed in the discussion that freedom of service will be provided for children. Today, health care is free of charge for children. There will be no change. The training is very positive, and it will remember the families with children who need training. This is physical therapy, therapy, and speech training as far as I know. But then comes the part of reference. Today, children pay 9/11 full price, and that's at least 890 bucks. but if they have a discount card of 650K. In general, it is inexpensive to bring children to expert physicians in Iceland. The change is to be made so that if there is no reference from a family physician, it will increase tremendously. It should then be noted that the availability of household doctors varies from one country to another. Some are at a clinic where they only have to wait a few days before meeting with a family doctor; others may have to wait up to three weeks. I understand it could be even longer. So there's a situation difference. Just as this is true, three clinics are being offered without any financial involvement. The Medical Association makes comments on this. Thus, all discussions about reference systems must be managed by the system in which they are to unveil. While we do not have enough intensive medical care, we are putting family members in areas of great difficulty and making it easier for them to take their children to specialists while those who are less wealthy have to rely on a much greater amount of money to obtain such health care. Of course, this is something that we will need to consider very carefully on the committee, how the change will affect the availability of children, that health care services are not increasing or creating any differences in access via this system. There is a short period of time that we have in the second speech, so I can't go further in my discussion of the reference system, unless I believe that it is difficult to give permission to the introduction of such a system when we don't know exactly how the trend will be in the clinic and when we have no information about the current budget of the government is going to enter the medical system. Although I kind of wish for them, I do. A health minister cannot provide this information. But it has to be said at the council's scene how the government budget should look because it's too important to discuss it without knowing what the development of the budget is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u110	A respectable president. I thank you for the much and fine discussion that has been conducted today on this important matter that I think has been brought together in the case of every senator who has been dying to make changes in the affairs of patients in the Icelandic Health Organization. At least I'd like to say "persuade." paritaprevir When Skarphéðinn the Össur of Skarphéðinsson looked over the scene and brought it together with a very simple and nuclear structure that he had hoped and referred to when he presented the key points of this important matter. First of all. It is a large group and a number of people who live with the shocking fact of landing in a payment trap and who have had to report to the country for business with the Icelandic health system. It is our primary obligation as a social welfare union to make matters happen in a way that people enjoy justice comparable to the rest of us. Second, a suggestion is made that 40 of you are involved. Family members have the opportunity to free their children from the expense of health care. It may be strange, as it did in the case of a man. Ingibjörg Sigrídíðu Ingadóttir, but the thought is that it will be done in such a way as to adopt a reference system. There is absolutely no need to mix it with any conclusion that comes from the Iceland Medical Association, which largely based on a certain misunderstanding at the head of the ideal society, since the funding of the programs available in the clinic at the capital area on the increase of three clinics is fully financed in the budget approved by the council, to say that one more trip. This is the first step toward simplifying the system. The first step in staying away from laying some extreme spells on people who are extremely sick. We make it a point to protect children and long - suffering, and I believe that we are going to speed up the progress of the situation as much as we can so as to be able to make budgets for 2017 on what has been done in the case of many speakers today, i.e. They need funds here and until subsidies on certain aspects of Icelandic health care. However, I would like to say about the mental health and mental - health services mentioned in the discussion and in the talks of many members of the council that the main convention I have presented in the field is that a psychologist has entered every health care center in the country within three years. We are starting our first tour of this year by increasing the mental status of psychologists throughout the country, driving it on a British model in order to aim for the establishment of a psychological status on every health center in the country in 2019. I expect we'll do just fine. But I can also put in the right to information that I was getting that information from the head of the Land Hospital just before I got into this session waiting in a walking ward of Pediatrics departments has been a significant link in between the years. So something is being done well in the ministry with our fine employees. What, then, are some of the benefits of free medical care? People here say that it is given in many parts of our next neighboring country. This does not match the information collected from OECD. I have not seen a single neighboring country where my home does not have some percentage of medical expenses. All right, I'll hold on. The council to inform me of a country where the share of health care spending households is zero. It's not in the information I've been given and a long way from. It should also be maintained when discussing increased modalities for patients in the Icelandic health care system that their share has been falling. It is now at the end of 2015, 18.2% of total, and has not been reduced since 2009. Since 1998, where it was very high, 19.4%, it has been the long way to 19 percent since then. It goes down to 18% in a few years. In the United States, for example, the main stock has contributed to the health costs of Iceland, especially in the past four years, to the slow, biting, and to a significant decline between 2014 and 2015. I want it to be taken care of when people are discussing it and indicate that patients in the health system are increasing each year. That's not right, considering what we're doing. In part, it is because of what has been good in these sales to pay down the dental costs of children and teenagers, and it is often forgotten when a person is involved in health - related expenses. I especially rejoice when I hear the voices that people have a great understanding of this matter. We have the same understanding that this is a system modification. I believe that we alone at the council will be able to resolve the matter at this spring council with special consideration that we can run the system when the year passes and amass the minds of the Parliament in what is left of the budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u111	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend the fine discussion that has taken place at 1st. The case in which various viewpoints have been expressed, which are the best and most favorable to the welfare committee where the bill will be worked. I can also make the wish to settle this matter because, as I have previously said, it is my first step toward the condition of health --free health care, but I believe that we Icelanders should record it within a few years. What I would like to do is make this brief answer to the highest level. Minister is the thing I didn't come to before or, quite frankly, forgot. The expense report says that in the bill there are no more than two - thirds of the bill's payment on the health care of the elderly, the disability of the elderly, and the children. I'd like to make a subject of conversation and link it to what I said at the outset of my talk earlier that I have some kind of health card that each Icelandic person would have and would use when he needed medical care, medicine, or other items. What I want to ask the highest. There is the group that is not listed in this and should not go down, i.e. little lovers in Iceland. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: How about an ordinary person who has 200 you'll pay for it? K. in a month or even less? Let's hope, more dignified President, that our plans all for minimum income in Iceland will be 300 of us. K. in a month in 2018, 210◯220 you. K. By tax, by reality, the question is, What are we going to do for these people? When these people get sick, low - incomeers, they can turn things around. I feel that we need to take this into account and that it should be a role, including, of course. The welfare committee is considering the group of members with minimum pay and medical services, high drug use, medical research, or other factors that can put them on the head. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why don't we grab on to low-class people?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u112	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I'm gonna ask you which way. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller what he thinks to do because we are in this discussion right now. What does what? A senator who chose that we are today high in 40 medical pay systems? One reason is that we always try to get social factors involved in the registration. I'll give you an example of an abdominal resection at 17,600 bucks. If you pay it with a discount card, it's 7.100 bucks. If you are elderly, it is 9,900. If older people have discount cards, the procedure will be 6,400K. For disability, that's 6,800 k. For microchiping with a discount card $3,500. That's how you could continue. Medical therapy has ten currency groups. Nobody's gonna see through this. The health system has to be one currency, and then we have to provide social support in another way, otherwise it's gonna be the grass everybody's been trying to get out over the years. In terms of this map, I'm not well at home, but the systems that are trying to work and put up with the drugs and the health - care system link social security numbers in some way that I don't know. When dealing with the system, it's real time update. You don't exactly need a map. They're just typed in and the system's holding it. These are technical features that I'm not well acquainted with, but I'm told that the system is being built so that it will be real time entries.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u113	V.E.G. President. At first, I wanted to guess what I could do. Minister spoke of earlier, according to OECD reports, where to find land free of charge. When I spoke of cancer patients'issues earlier in the winter, I became a subject. I took an example that I could take, a personal example of a person who lived there who has published on the website of his caring organization. There he briefly said: In France, I never had to pick up my wallet. He never had to do that during his chemotherapy. I quoted earlier in a paper with the bill, which contains examples from Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Finland. In Denmark, a public health service is free of charge, but it needs to be paid for, for example, a specialised service if it is attended without reference. All right, I'd love to have it exactly the way it is. These are countries that have been highly controlled by peers and built up by their own ideals. This is the system I want to get into. I made low - income professionals a subject of the past and the highest. In many ways, a minister answered me in this regard and entered into a system that was being created and referred to again into the wonderful system, the tax system, and the information there. I'm quite ready to say it's fine if you can do this so that when low-payers, people with the lowest salary, need health care, they'll be on their computer, and thus they'll be on my credit card, as I thought they would be the highest. Ministers are talking about with all the budgets published here as a copy of the bill. But we know, more dignified President, that even though it is, that there is a natural part of the 6.5 billion that is being paid, we have a lot of examples, I'm sure everyone has had these examples to himself, that there are some people beyond the reach of people when they are starting to come in. It may be that once it has been confirmed that the sufferer is a long - suffering patient, he goes down by class, but somehow the system has to put their arms around it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have the same hope as the highest. A minister that we can monopolize ourselves to finish this case, because this is certainly a step in the right direction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u114	A respectable president. When discussing non-employment health care and whether it is available in France or Denmark, etc. it may well be that individual diseases or groups of individual patients are protected, but it is wrong to indicate that health care is completely free of charge to people in these countries. According to my information, the share of households in Denmark in expenses for health care is 13.7% and in France, since it was specifically mentioned, is 6.7%. It is the year 2013. That's how I could list every country in Europe. All over the world, pay factor is authorized by someone in charge of medical expenses. It is wrong to indicate that this is totally payable for homes in the next countries. This is based on the information I have. But I hear the Conspiracy speaks very much for the free health care that would make us unique in the world or in the vicinity of us, which is a good thing to do. However, we are in this matter dealing with changes in health care services estimated at 6.5 billion. In addition to that, the estimated cost is high at 40 billion dollars. various factors. Likely, the public dental service there is the highest currency share, estimated just less than 10 billion dollars. Medicinal products range from less than 9 billion, etc. Overall, this is a total of 30 to 40 billion dollars. which, at least, are besides the 6.5 billion that we are dealing with. I would like to emphasize that in a discussion of non-employmental health care, I challenge the problem. A senator's giving an example of a land with zero share of health care costs. I haven't found it, and my experts haven't found it yet. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u115	V.E.G. President. I didn't intend to extend this discussion, but because of the highest recommendation. The minister and the figures presented here I have to say, as it is, I don't think the data that follow the bill are detailed enough. On page 18. 6 discusses the report of a committee directed by Blöndalur H.. It says: In Denmark, a public health service is free of charge, but it needs to be paid, for example, for expert services if not brought without reference. That's what I made myself a talker. These articles discuss specific aspects of health care and other forms of dentistry. But then I think there's more work to do at the top. The welfare committee and those sitting there are going through this to get the truth out and to decide about it. I went to a very nice press conference. Minister of the Ministry on Health Care Factors here in the capital area. It was very interesting to me that it stated that the number of people in the capital area are not even registered to the medical doctor, but it has been observed at work that men are even double or trigraphed. I just have to tell you right now, Mr. Honorable President that the system doesn't really have enough control of this, so we have detailed information on what's going on. Then I'm going to ask you about the number expressed in the expense report, about 6.5 billion. It will be the role of a welfare committee to take a closer look at an example in order to determine exactly who the payoff is. I took out all the information that has been presented here like a new network. Of course, on May 1, 2013, we knew about the cost of medication and other such activities. I wanted to make this come out, a respectable president. I'm not going to extend the 1st. More than I've already done. I wanted to talk to you about this. I think it's a step in the right direction, but it seems to me that a lot of work is being done at a health - care committee to go through this, and especially to collect detailed information on cost-making, and to realize what the state would do and what would have to be done to make health care available, as I said it was in Denmark.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u116	A respectable president. It is with great pleasure that I recommend a committee party with a change in proposal for a concierge of national security policy for Iceland. Most of us in this hall and who work in this house are familiar with this matter and do not have to be traced to its long history and why it is presented and stated here. It is worth remembering, however, because a major step is taken by discussing the matter. This subject is what the United States and the United States have long considered about the importance of establishing national security policies for our country. Now that it's done, we're talking about it. Not only has it been successful but it has succeeded in a brilliant reconciliation, which is not necessarily in as huge international as foreign political subjects as this one is discussed. Therefore, I would like to make this a significant part of the discussion of foreign affairs and, in particular, how the matter has been handled and how the council, the Senate, and all members of the Parliament have the discussion and the committee's work done, show what is so often called, and including, in the Middle East now, i.e. a specific consultation and conversation about things of great importance to the nation. I feel that this time I've done a lot of good. The story of the matter is, as most of us know, that policy was first submitted in this form, i.e. Suggestion to be agreed on by the highest level. Secretary of state at 144th. Then a meeting was held, and the subject was discussed at the moment. A foreign press committee at nine meetings, but it was not possible then to complete the case. It was then put forward again by the sieve of the world's highest power. The minister of this council and the State Department of State has now discussed the matter at six meetings, as well as other meetings outside the traditional meeting period. Foreign Directoring Committees have taken steps to ensure that the matter could be done well and safely. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee, why. Council members of the Foreign Affairs Committee for Cooperation in this matter and for the good and upbuilding discussion and for the common will there to ensure that this will result in a good and important solidarity. Hence, the committee is submitted by all causes. Councilmen who are in a state of shock. State Department, with the exception of a representative of the left green, huh? paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir signed the committee's opinion in advance. On the other hand, it became very difficult to find out, but we know and understand that the left green and white attitude. The members of this party are basically different from most of us, and most of us sit here. Of course, we respect their position and uniqueness. I would also like to mention just one reason why as a politician, when available, I have long been impressed by the way of finding solutions and mutual solutions. That's why I think it was a perfect example when the then foreign minister, hasn't it? Össur Skarphéðinsson, appointed ten senators to make a proposal for national security in its time for Iceland, on the basis of a hearing from the Council of the Council, as known by men. Then a minister hid it. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir's daughter led by the Committee, and then members of the Committee represented all the groups working together on the project. I believe that such a start to an important job is usually and maybe always the reason for a good deal of things to be done. The committee took the time to review the huge issue, and it is described as a proposal for action that we have had here since the time it was submitted by the Supreme Court. Ministers of foreign affairs that describe the work of the Senate committee and the emphasis it considered most important to measure and emphasize. I'm not going to review it in any detail today, but I want to draw attention to what is contained in the letter of the Committee, i.e. The report on the shape of national security policies for Iceland and the paper and all the information involved in this project is a large and comprehensive overview of the main events that are taking place in the national states at any given time. In particular, I would like to draw attention to what was done by the Senate committee, which are new threats and new risk factors in the foreign political environment we live in. I also think it's a great example of how it is endeavored, which, of course, is a national security policy project but can be a problem and a turn, but I think it's done well here, mixed up with what it is at most times an internal matter that is a public security subject and then what has to do with foreign political projects. Therefore, the project was successful, so this aspect of the Senate committee was met with agreement. Every group of senators had seats. But, of course, as I pointed out earlier and as predictable, the representatives of the Left Green had a different focus than the rest of the Committee, and especially with regard to Iceland's presence in the NATO, the Atlantic Alliance, the position on the defence agreement, which is also another among them. The council, but most of us, here and here, are reflected in this. Naturally, however, it's the basic and main tone of this piece of paper. So, of all this fine work, this proposal is born for Congress, which is prepared from this committee's work and submitted to my opinion of a broad and clear national security policy for Iceland. We have some problems. Of course, a foreign committee, the six meetings I mentioned, is based on the fine work being done at ease. The Foreign Affairs Committee under the top of the line. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of a year, came to a good work there and a great deal of preparation that we took into our arms and tried to work accordingly. This committee, at this assembly now, has discussed the matter and has been contacted by many guests, and they are listed in the committee's list, i.e. Jörundur Valtýsson, Arnór Sigurjónsson and Axel Nikulásson of the Ministry of State, Þórunn J. Hafstein and Sigurður Emil Pálsson of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Hugi Ólafsson of Resource. I just want to say that there was some discussion in earlier stages, i.e. At 144th, the legislature and then back now. A foreign press committee, whether it would be clear and clear enough to address the environmental pressures we face and be able to face, whether it would be able to meet enough in this suit. In order to ensure that this was the case, visitors were asked to review, as well as, I'll come in on it afterwards, the committee contributed to that factor, and it was also done in the 144th legislation, to conclude that it was taken into account, and set to the first point on national security policy that there was special attention to environmental and security issues. So it was added to make sure that it was clear. There has also been a meeting of Ásgrímur L. Ásgrímsson and Jón Idir Guðnýjarson from the National Reservation Service, Jón Hjartarson Svanberg of the Landbourg Society, Stefán Pálsson of the Joint Military Opposite, Guðrdon Guðjón IMI, an international agency of information and expression freedom, and Júlíus Sigþórsson of Great... [[Take it up to us: Sigurdórsson.]] I'm sorry. I'm sure you're right, Júlíus Sigurþórsson. He is very entertaining, of course self - educated, a person who has arranged a meeting and sent in a discourse for a topic related to foreign political relations, especially if it contains information on the Soviet Union and Russia, he is meeting with the Committee and often adds to good and important information. Then came the commission from the National Guard, the Association of Military Resistance, IMMI, an international agency on freedom of information and expression, and the person I mentioned earlier, Júlíus Sigurþórsson. As indicated in the motion of the Council of Iceland, the general government is charged with enforcing national security policies in ten complex teams as a guarantee of independence, sovereignty and privacy of Iceland's border, safety of its citizens, and protection of its systems and infrastructure. The policy is based on the proposal of the Parliamentary Committee on the tournament of National Security Policy for Iceland, which the General Assembly commissioned the Secretary of State to set up by Congress Recontraction No. 45/139 of September 16, 2011. In the suggestion that we have entered the second round. This means that national security policy will be based on the commitments established by the United Nations Convention and will be guided by the nation's baseline values, democracy and respect for justice and international law, humanity and protection of human rights, equal to all and sustainable development, disarmament and peaceful solution to issues. The key element of policy is Iceland's position as a small island nation that has no authority or willingness to control an army and ensures its safety and defends by active cooperation with other countries and international institutions. Then the main focus of the national security policy is: The need to look particularly at the environment and security of Iceland in the north in international cooperation and domestic services. In Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Community will remain a key factor in Iceland's defences. That the 1951 defence agreement of Iceland and the United States will continue to ensure Iceland's defenses and continue to work on the development of cooperation on the basis of the contract. To promote and further develop Norwegian cooperation in terms of security and protection and other neighboring activities. To ensure the global security benefits of Iceland's active international cooperation on the basis of international law and peaceful solution to issues, disarmament, respect for human rights and rights, sexual equality and the struggle against inequities, hunger, and poverty guided. To ensure that in the country there are defenses, equipment, ability and expertise to meet the challenges Iceland faces in security and protection. Government policy in public security and security is part of national security policy for Iceland. To promote greater security. That Iceland and Iceland are emancipated for nuclear weapons, taking into account international commitments. That the National Security Council shall be established as a regular assessment of the security and security status of the national security board at a minimum than every five years. Then we will see exactly what work this is based on in the aforementioned Senate Committee, as well as the importance of this work. In the opinion of the Committee how much we really are happy that this has come to pass and that the General will agree to a national security policy appointed by the government. It is, however, a respectable president, and it is good to make a decision that when such a large matter is made, then, of course, it involves compromises. This was done in the work of the Committee. This was done not only after the service that took place at the 144th legion but also again today, that both of us, as members of the Committee, are on certain compromises to make sure that we could all be on the basis of the committee's views and in this direction. But then it also included a conversation I would like to thank for with the former Supreme Court. A minister of foreign affairs, which also helped us to accomplish this effectively on the committee. What I think, too, is wrong, and that's why I think it's a very good and exemplary course, that only on those sides a few months I've sat as president of a dog. The Foreign Affairs Committee and the years since the election for a new assembly have made amazing changes in international environment, foreign affairs, and foreign politics in general. Nevertheless, the policy taken by the Senate committee I mentioned earlier has been basically in its place. There has been no need to make major or major decisions about change, stating that this policy, in my opinion, can survive the passing of time and work in the way that we consider important. Finally, I would like to mention that we make some adjustments. The committee suggests some changes, and although they do not appear to be large or dramatic, they include the brilliant, satisfying changes, such as changes, such as those mentioned earlier, that in a richer and more powerful way we take into account the environmental factors and noses. We feel that it reflects better than when released, the work that was carried out by the Senate Committee. There were also some factors listed at the Senate Committee's work that depend on what I mentioned earlier on the factors that shape the threats we face today and the key risk factors and are placed in certain categories on page 5. 5 of the proposal for interpretation. We thought there was a reason to make certain issues there. We felt that they needed to be added, and there were threats related to climate change, natural disasters, food and food safety, health security and epidemics. This would fit into the text of number 7. Also considered important, and it may have been particularly prominent after the recent discussions, that there are new numbers in which we add: the government's policy takes into account other threats that require full attention, such as terrorism, organized crime, and threats to financial and economic security. This was also important, and each of us agreed to take it. This will go in after the 8th count. Then comes the following words of the 10th national security policy: Reflecting the broad vision of national security reflected in policy. Other than that, they are the ones listed as unchanged, but we are correct, and we think it is very important that in the listing of the proposal for Congress, each step is considered as as important as the other. We do not stress that those who read or apply the policy feel that this applies to the importance of the factor, i.e. that number one would be the most important thing, and that which was down would be less important. We brought it up, and I'd like to make it very clear because it was a very important part of the discussion. The Foreign Affairs Committee that all the emphasis is equal to that of 5 mg. The suggestions are made: Following the words ◯If the following emphasis comes: which has equal force. This was of utmost importance to achieve a solidarity of the synonym and to achieve a solidarity over the proposed policy. After the work that, in my opinion, was so brilliantly written by all the members of the committee. Councilmen on the State Department, under the motion and under the opinion of the committee. State Department, except for a left-green representative who'll sign in advance. Also, Jónsdóttir, the daughter of John, made such a statement in a formality that she accepted it. So there was great success and wide harmony. I think we can be proud to pursue this policy, proud of it if, of course, it will be, which I hope it will agree and then go on being the support it's supposed to be for an Icelandic community. I make rights, and thank you, which I have earlier directed to those who worked the case before I came to it, and there were many. I hope there's a good and broad solid solidarity in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u117	Madam President. I have no question. The head of the State Department, but he took advantage of my right to an answer to a small statement. I believe this is an historic occasion at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Here we are in the final stage of agreeing for the first time to national security policy for Iceland. Almost political miracles are followed by all groups of the General Assembly, from both sides, and above the center, to agree, with the warnings that one particular group will explain below. That would likely have been a story to the next town at any time in the republic. Especially today, though, when there is a great deal of attention in the community. I believe that it is a great gift and a sign that the legislature council will succeed in this way to shape a future policy in such a dramatic matter without its being removed. I especially want to take this opportunity to thank you. The head of the committee for the successful management of the case to the final outcome. It would have been successful only because certain compromises were agreed. In fact, I believe that these compromises give this conclusion added to and further breaks into paper because we are in effect putting into the motion the consequences of a significant expansion of the traditional security concept and now agreeing to the policy for the future security of the nation, unorthodox threats such as environment, food security, and health issues. You see, we must always think of things that are impossible. There's men trying to do it. I want to thank you. A senator and president of the State Department for the successful management of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u118	A respectable president. I'd like to take a moment to celebrate the particular opinion of the State Department on the proposal for Congress on national security policy for Iceland. I would also like to say that I consider all the changes made in the Committee to be of benefit and further support of national security policy. It is a special pleasure, then, that the committee should be brought together and represented together. It is not by itself, but it is a testimony to what it can be done if a good will exists and in full accord with the parapolitic road that began to shape national security policy for Iceland in 2011. Unfortunately, the disaster side has been overrun in our nearly environment of security. Last month the terrorist attacks in Brussels reminded us that security is not default and that incomprehensible atrocities can happen near us in time and bed. These events, and unfortunately the others in recent losses, remind us to pay attention to national security, close up strings, and make as much peace as possible with key lines of security and defense. I have full faith that national security policy and the premeditated opinion will contribute to that. That the European Parliament's approval of the Council will be held in hand, including with the establishment of a special National Security Council. It is therefore intended to have perspective on policy implementation and to promote increased information on safety and protection. A respectable president. Here is a significant and important step at the Council. It will show that Iceland's national security policy, the first of the Republic's History, will be adopted in the General Assembly in broad harmony and solidarity. I want to use this opportunity to thank the State Department and why. Her boss for a good job, huh? paritaprevir Valgerður made a Bjarnadóttir for leading the Parliamentary Committee back in 2014 and making proposals. Well, I'd like to thank two of my officers for my job, then what? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor and the highest. Agricultural and marine Gunnar minister at Gunnarri Sveinsson Sjögnsson for carrying out the situation. I agree with what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson that this is indeed a historic occasion, so it is time to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u119	Madam President. The 10th point of the original motion suggests that a part of the proposal, if agreed, is to be set up by the National Security Council. As it says, it has to be done with certain laws. I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of state, first of all, whether to the highest. The government intends, then, to take its own initiative, to submit such laws during the present council. I believe that it is right for the government at least to show such a bill. In fact, I believe it should be possible to have it approved here at the General Assembly. In this case, three foreign ministers have worked or come to it. It has been done in a time of three governments. There is evidence to show how to handle complex, tricky issues that are essential to the nation and should be given long - term care. I believe that the way this matter has been worked out has truly been examined in the discussions at the council and by the committee as a result. paritaprevir A fine example of how to handle such projects is the Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. I feel, however, that our community should be at my place of solidarity and should use the landscaping device to bring it all the way to the final docks. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does she give such a bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u120	A respectable president. What a joy it is to stand here today and hear how this matter has been handled! I intend to contribute such a bill to the current council and to use the pro-conversity that seems to exist and will aim for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u121	President. I would like to agree with others who have spoken before that I think it will be a rather historic moment if we are able to accept national security policy at the National Assembly of the Icelanders, even if one group is writing in advance. I think that shows the most about how much the world has changed. The Cold War is over, and the world has seen that it is better to stand together and see the future from the same angle than to be always in a great conflict, although, unfortunately, conflict is still very well known here. The second reason why this is possible is that while the classic defense and security policy is, of course, a major part of this policy and a suggestion that we address is a broad definition of the security concept. Then, in the Commission's Committee of Foreign Affairs, we have to view all the woes that are around us and think of them all in a very large context, state of state, and foreign affairs. It's not that it's all in the drawer anymore. It has been a great privilege, a pleasure, and a great learning experience, to direct this committee and to introduce ourselves, as we had to do, all the factors discussed. I've said before, it was a pleasure to be at the time of the time. The minister of the State of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson took the case, so to speak, into a new term, since we were unable to submit the report during the terms it was submitted. As we have seen, it is now becoming a matter of great pleasure. It also shows how the world changed that we had divided threats that we thought were present in three sections, three categories. I remember thinking that we were the least of the dangers of what was in the third category, with threats of terrorism and war. Now the number of military threats left, more than one group of terrorism has been brought, even before the great terrorism that we have witnessed during the past few weeks. But it is in that very relationship that I would like to mention that the Senate proposals were, if I may say so, a respectable president, the idea of a national security Council is up. We did not say so. Rather, the idea of having such advice was wondered whether it was right to have it. Now just moments ago, the Supreme One said. Secretary of State that she is willing to offer a suggestion for the kind of advice that would follow and then perhaps have to be revised every five years for the national security program. One idea of national security, and what we learned about it is that it is a regular meeting advice that everyone is accustomed to dating, for example, on Tuesday morning or something, in the National Security Council. And the National Security Council should not only gather when it comes to disaster but always be active. For example, you need to get together once a month. This is not a National Security Council that should merely be convened when something comes up. There must be representatives of the central, political, and official scene of society. People need to learn how to work together. That's one of the things I thought I was going to notice about this job, i.e. how difficult the Icelandic government seems to be working together. In our little country, we've got a lot of ministry, and it's getting a little windy about whether this is my job or yours. I think the National Security Council is very important in trying to pull it together. I think it may be possible to help us in our daily routine, if that is what I can say. I specifically mention this because in the Commission's Committee on State Security, it's about national security policy, with the permission of a president: During the short time since the former Parliamentary Committee on National Security Convention has been established, international security has been high, particularly in Europe, making rapid changes in the final losses. Conflict in Ukraine and the Indent of Crobyga [...] A respectable president. In this production, the classics of defense are still highlighted, but climate matters are also important. It's a financial threat. The hurt caused by the 2008 shock is not healed. The classical defense projects are important and we must not lose sight of them, of our fellow workers in NATO, Europe, in the United States with the 1951 Convention. It is all very important, but we must not focus on it. We need to realize that we are living in a completely different world. We need to work together. We need to work together within the country, and we need to work with other people. And hopefully this will be a policy to help some country in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u122	Madam President. We're here for a second round. to propose a synopsis on national security policy for Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, spoke in his speech here very well of the work being done on the committee and there traced the changes proposed by the committee to the synonym. There is no secret - everyone who followed the previous siege. on this matter, both at this council but also at the last - that when the members of Congress were left green, they were quite at odds with the emphasis they made in the Senate arrangement, thinking that changes had to be made, and that the synopsis proposal did not reflect the sufficient work of a member of Congress committee. paritaprevir Well, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir was in charge. In the work of the Committee, however, a tremendous debate was made, and as noted, adjustments are made. Like what? paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir was taken in well, mainly by class number two, and can be seen in an appendix, or follow the original Parliament's arrangement. These include economic and economic security, organized crime, food and food security, health security, and so forth. Taking these factors into national security policy has given us a much broader view of national security, which, in my opinion, is essential. Not only was this my opinion, since, as mentioned earlier, other members of the committee not only agreed but they fully agreed that this improved national security policy and would improve. But it remains that we in left green have a different view of what this looks like, i.e. When it comes to military and defense and the role of national security. This was made very clear in the publication of a branch representative of the left green member of the Parliament's Committee on the shape of national security policy in Iceland and is presented in Article IV compliance with the Constitution proposal. It explains that the VG policy of Iceland is a military country and is outside military alliances and that representatives of the VG committee are therefore unable to support the proposals of the Committee to direct or lead to the involvement of Iceland into the Atlantic Alliance; but, in other words, they supported the proposals of the Parliamentary Commission. As I went over them, we felt, when we saw the Senate resolution, when it was distributed, that there was just too much emphasis on this factor. But as I traced before and also the president of the night. The Foreign Committee, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, made changes in national security policy to the work of the Committee. Because of the many proposed changes, it would have been absurd for me that I had not signed the committee, but I do so with this warning because of our uniqueness in the left when it comes to NATO. It is taking a huge step toward greatly expanding the security concept, and its emphasis is no longer limited to military defenses. In fact, they've taken in and mentioned factors like Iceland's environmental and security interests in the north, and the original proposals were factors that we in the left green have considered as an extremely important factor, which is involved in Iceland and Iceland's immunity as a non-terresurable form of nuclear weapons. But there are many other factors that are taking place just as well as in our national security issues. So we in VG will support the changes proposed here. But we will sit next to the final payment on the case. That, as I entered here, turns to our vision and course of motion regarding our being in NATO. Perhaps it was a long time ago that we arrived in this place. This conclusion is possible, on the other hand, due to a good job that was first done at the Senate Committee - under the leading Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir, where we may have said that the seminar was an enormously well - documented map, since the threats that Iceland may face in a very large way were put forth - and on the other hand, because of work. Foreign Affairs. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee's Committee, Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who was willing to make compromises and have the preeminence to propose to the Committee that more factors are included in the national security policy. The case has changed to the work of the Committee, since we in the left movement were highly opposed to the proposed policy, with the exception of counting that individual articles there are very good, we have come to a place where we are standing. The Foreign Affairs Committee for change in policy, so we will sit by the final payment. I don't think it was the very conclusion that we came to that place, and I think this is going to matter to the future. It is important to have a national security policy that in a gross way is such that the entire political spectrum here at the World Council can and at least not oppose it. So I think we did quite well in this work, and I hope we succeed in further matters. Clearly, with good intentions and a measure of solidarity can be achieved. Of course, that requires hard work. There is no paper about it. But at least I can't help but say that I'm very comfortable with the way this case has come forward and what land it looks like I'm reaching. I admit I was very negative here at the first. But the work has been good and has been extremely important. I'd like to finally thank my partners on the Foreign Affairs Committee for that job and, eventually, again - I'm getting a little smaller. The chairman of the Branch Committee Birna Kristjánsdóttir - thanks that she was ready for a discussion on making compromises, talking for change. It is of utmost importance, and we will make it happen in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u123	V.E.G. President. To continue in places similar to those of today's population. The final speaker concluded his speech, and I'm going to be a little perfunctory and thanking all those who have been involved in this work over the years, since the time of the Supreme Court. Secretary of State, Össur Skarphéðinsson, set up the members of Congress, the members of the Council and then the members of the council on the foreign committee. I agree with those who have spoken and have described this as a turning point where the council is setting up national security policy for the first time. Of course, we've had a policy, and, as it were, policies about most of the lawsuits there, but these things are put in a different context. I think it is also good for us during our discussion to expand our sense of security, as is done in this work, so that we look to the factors that can pose a threat or danger to the country and the people and try to see how we can deal with them. It is then reasonable to agree with the different factors being done in this proposal, both aspects of traditional land safety and economic and environmental protection, as well as aspects of the environment. True, we are completing a milestone by putting this proposal to completion. It is also interesting and interesting to see how far - reaching harmony has been about the factors discussed. Of course, this involves certain compromises, but the conclusion is not necessarily a doubt about solid factors. Actually, the only factors that reveal a real difference in opinion are the attitude toward the Atlantic Community and the defense of the United States, and there is no new news about it. Of course, there's been a declared left-green policy and a prefect that Iceland should stand outside of NATO and cancel its defense agreement with the United States. So that's not new news. It is a joy to learn, however, that there is wide agreement between all other categories on the main factors of this matter and on these two factors, in defense, and in the membership of NATO. It is interesting to see that Piratars are signing this way because they may not have always been able to explain their new level of position. About how we proceed with the project, I say, we've certainly reached a phase here. Tomorrow's vote, and accepting this policy is a major stage, but of course work needs to be continued. There are areas where policy needs to be developed, and it is only natural to wonder how this will be done best. I support the idea of the establishment of the National Security Council, but it's going to talk about how it's going to work out. But I think it's important to have some kind of setting, if we can call it that, to continue our policy in which, as men have described, a representative of both the government and the political systems can be assembled to continue working on policy. I think we both need to fill more fully into the policies that have been established here and as if to have a range of changes that may occur, and they have truly been seen in recent years, changes in environments that have a major impact on our outlook on safety and on our global situation. I don't have to get further into it, not in detail, but I wanted to mention, as more have done in this discussion, changes that have occurred in Eastern Europe. The changed and aggressiveer governments in Russia have raised unpleasant memories, reminding us that peace in our part of the world is not self - centered, and it does not take much to make things go into flames. We also see an increased threat of terrorism. Then it is seen that the vast transport we see today at the Mediterranean Sea and the refugee stream to Europe is affecting this context. Europe has developed pressures and pressures, which can lead to some less sensitive political conditions. We can see this during discussions, including those of the European Union, how countries have reacted in different ways. It is quite clear that this is one of the factors that are currently under intense pressure from the European Union. All of this can and affect our evaluation of our security in the broad context. You will also have to, although keeping your Internet security in mind may have been less important in this discussion and perhaps more relevant at home. We may not be aware of this much from day to day, but the fact is that Internet attacks of various kinds, backgrounds, and for various purposes, are commonplace, and create pressures, can pose dangers. Despite the fact that these issues have often been raised during discussions here at the council and on the U.S. Senate committees, one has the feeling that we need to do much better in defending ourselves in that regard. Internet attacks can come from various sources, with a variety of purpose. In some cases, it is a matter of organized crime. In other cases, there may be attacks on the basis of terrorists to create or paralyze some system on the part of the government. But Internet attacks can also come from states and can have the purpose of creating confusion. This is a point that I think that we need to add force to our policy and following incidents of spending more money on; spending more money on the institutions that are responsible for protecting the various network systems of our community, various online infrastructures, whether in the management system, in the financial system, in the area of energy, and so many other areas where important infrastructures can be vulnerable to Internet attacks, as it were. Similarly, there is a need to consider, and that is not to say, to bring reproach on the work that is behind this Senate resolution and to take further discussions and markets on the issues that we would normally define in the field of work of the State of the State. Then I think of the reaction to terrorism, organized crime, and the like. I have long noticed that the changed circumstances we face call for certain law enforcement agencies who have a role in this area, such as the border police, the U.S. Marshal's International Department, the field of analysis, and other organizations, to need better circumstances to do their work. There's been a step towards furthering this operation by the police, but I think we need to do better in that area. For various reasons, pressures on these institutions have increased greatly, and there is no appearance that will change anything over the next loss. So we need to act. We need the tools and manpower we need in order to create the security that we can make. We will never create complete security in all things, but there are certain factors that we need to keep in mind in this regard. It's not too hard to let it go. V.E.G. President. Other than that, I agree with the good words of a public speaker here today regarding the work that has taken place at the scene of the foreign committee. That is correct, which was shown in the case of the highest. The head of the committee, that during the last winter when I was on the State Department of State, we did a lot of work on this, but circumstances were in such a way that work was not possible to be completed at that time. I don't think waiting like one of our councils has gotten any worse. It seems to me that the changes that have been made are for improvement and that in order to make more peace with the final outcome, I believe that this is a positive conclusion. I want to make it my last words, tops. Mr. President, I believe, while it is indeed the end of an approved national security policy here at the General Assembly, we can put the matter in the drawer and let a conversation of national security fall asleep. We need to keep them awake. We need to do so not only when we deal with the established element, which points to the establishment of the National Security Council and the arrangement of everything, but also when we consider the contents of the material. We need to be alert to the fact that both the politics and the government systems are involved in handling the situation that exists and being present, as we have seen, very variable; events can occur that are rapidly changing, and then we need to have some kind of transportation or arrangement, a setting, to discuss the changes, and to take a position on the issues that arise. Generally, at last, at the highest. President, then, as I said at the outset, we've had a policy in the areas in which we're dealing. But by putting it in this suit, we are likely to agree to fit our long - term policy together. It is unfortunate when national security issues are discussed that there will be big fluctuations. It is better to have long-term policy, and it does not necessarily take swing changes according to the outcome of the election, so when a policy can be established that remains for a long time, it is very positive. It seems to me that all who have come to work with this work were guided by it, and therefore this work brings more satisfaction than most expected at the outset.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u124	Madam President. I have previously described the historic importance of the synopsis proposed in final form. It is also historic to achieve such agreements on these policies at the International Assembly that no one will vote against the conclusion. It has been a considerable lengthy expedition that began with my appointment, in 2011, in which I proposed a decree to shape national security policy by a special committee to represent all classes. That committee worked very well under a most excellent lead. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, worked a lot, drew a lot of data, and finally, it was a synthetic product. However, it did not succeed because of political circumstances, I would say, to take the matter absolutely to port. As is true of those who came to this matter, political gaps were about a unique number in the current proposal. You might want to think about it because you're feeling better. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra Arnad's Árnadóttir took a very serious interest in the advance of her company, the left movement of an offer of green. She is absolutely correct in saying that the fine class is taking a big step by being involved in putting the matter before the Senate after work on the State Department and also stating that he will not interrupt the approval of the proposal. It is essential that this should be noted, not least because there were more than some differences of opinion between the members of the committee to which the matter is so well - prepared for the council. I believe it was important to overcome opposition within the committee that worked under the leadership of the committee. paritaprevir For example, Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir daughter that the left movement ◯ green supply gave high priority to the issue presented in the 9th count, i.e. ... abouttheNationofNation of Iceland's Nuclear Objects. There are certainly more categories than the left movement that support it here, but opposition was on the committee at the time. I think it's right, and it's time to move to the top. Seafood and agricultural minister and former secretary of state, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, special thanks for the task of putting the case in this form to the council in order that it is possible for everyone, at least by warnings that have been attributed, to the proposal as it is established. It's very important. It is also important to realize that this conclusion is a logical continuation of the traditional policy of safety that has nearly been followed by the Republic of Iceland. From the very beginning of this development, it can be said that a key group of members of the Allied Council of Iceland did not fail, no matter what has happened to political weathers. It is important that there is clear evidence that this policy is part of it, as soon as it is emphasized, by me and others, that not all classes of the Council agree with that element. However, this proposal has also changed in the affairs of the foreign committee. A certain compromise has been made that I think will significantly improve the proposal. If the original proposal for Congress is compared with the findings of more and less on the part of the committee. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir is a few different lights. The figures available in the original proposal focused primarily on the safety threats that can be said to be related to war. This was considerably different with the initiative's report itself, and especially the widening of security that took place in committees. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir's daughter was based on; which was the risk assessment report under the lead professor Valur Ingimundarson. You may want to look back at the story a little. The beginning of this case, which may be said to be part of the feeling that there were new threats, while the old fell, was a report by Jón Sigurðsson, later president of the forward party, worked for the then foreign minister Ásgrímsson Ásgimsson, and came out to remind me, 1998. In any case, it appeared just before the year 2000. It was the first time that these issues were to be tore from the government and the need to take them into a security policy that was expected in the report that would be developed at some future time. It was not until more than a decade later that it was attacked by a former government. So I am very pleased with the changes. A senator, president of the State Department of State, has recommended, taking into consideration attitudes that existed, especially within the opposition, but that also included more, both in its prehuman existence and during its long history. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson was presided over by the committee. It is clearly stated that policy measures should take into account threats related to climate change, natural disasters, food and food safety, health security and epidemics. It's important that it come in because it's in the spirit of the new security concept. Such a course must cover all of this. Hv. paritaprevir A year's Birgir Ármannsson said that we could not leave it at all for a night. Rather, we had to continue our work. I agree completely with him on that. In time, it becomes a question of how this can be done to improve policy development, to make this a process that is constantly being replaced, and to change as changes occur in Iceland's environment occur. There I believe the National Security Council is a pivotal matter. When this idea was first to be tore up, it could be so done by many that it was hardly considered acceptable to make a suggestion. But here today it has been that all those who have spoken up, or the majority, feel that that that's a very good idea. I believe that the National Security Council, which is shaped as described in the language of the day. paritaprevir The Valgerður Bjarnadóttir here earlier today is exactly the answer to how to secure policy implementation and ensure that it changes to the rhythm of changing needs. This need to be counsel that meets regularly but is not just compatible when a potential disaster strikes. The doubts about the National Security Council were due, among other things, because they might conflict with today's public defence and security Council. I was in it as one of the executives of the European Commission. My experience was that it was never called together for policy but only to address the challenge. Under no circumstances was I invited to meet with that recommendation otherwise. That came out, Madam President, in the coverage and work of the day. The Foreign Affairs Committee, representatives of the National Protection Agency and the State Department that the recommendation had never been made directly to participate in the discussion of policy or to plan for a policy development in that area. It says here, in one of the figures of the resolutions we will agree with tomorrow, that the government's policy in public and security, shaped by the public defence and security Council, should be part of national security policy. All right. In order to discuss this, however, the council must meet together. And I'm gonna use this opportunity to pay attention and criticize that it isn't. There is nothing I'm accusing the current government of because there was almost no change in her time from what was when I was in the government. But it was a matter that I reviewed, and I attended a government meeting. I also believe that there are many improvements in new numbers that take into consideration government policy threats that we also need to take into account, such as atrocities. I believe that government must always try to prepare for what no one is going to do. Such atrocities are a threat. I also believe that Iceland is not well prepared to deal with such threats in case it happens, as well as at the international commitments of Iceland, the international agreements available to Iceland, is an opportunity to trust them. I feel completely clear in the way the times are changing - we've only seen this winter in what way the threats we thought were primarily attached to other parts of the world are beginning to divide into communities that we're close to - have to put more emphasis on Iceland being prepared also for what we might call in our minds impossible. I believe that this addition has provided clear instructions on how the National Security Council should include considering matters. When the development of the new security concept began in the past decade, it was quite different than it had been for decades. The Cold War was about to come down. It was a second period, and they sometimes said it in their descriptions that it had broken out peace. At that time, it was felt as if both of us and other nations were not likely to be seen in our part of the world. Well, like a whisk. paritaprevir A Birgir year's farm Ármannsson described it, and in a moment it was completely different. In less than two years, this changes with microphrase speed. This can lead to a lot of changes for Iceland. For example, there must be some form of government that, if necessary, handles it with care if a new danger assessment is needed if the situation changes. Today, according to the rule and law, it is the governor who should have it. In the winter, a new high - risk assessment was fueled by the terrible atrocities that occurred in Europe, but for the most part it was generally adopted from other foreign institutions, such as the Atlantic Alliance and other countries. An independent sovereign state needs equipment to make a personal assessment of how the situation may be changing. The Ukraine conflict produced many discussions. There we saw a new kind of war - related conflict, a kind of hideout that was unclear when the war broke out, for example, would fall below 5. In the Atlantic Convention. This definition problem has been solved. However, in connection with that discussion, it was apparent that there was great fear that something similar might happen in the Baltic States. They're members of NATO. Then it would be 5. enabled. That would mean that NATO might then be involved in a conflict with Russia. It can immediately change Iceland's state, although it happens in a part of the world that even we feel is distant from us, even though it is part of Europe. If we examine the story, we will see that the moment it happened, such as Murmansk, it would mean a struggle about ports. We see that every time the Russians have gone into conflict, it has led to the end of Bososporus. All the wars that Turks and Russians have fought, 17 of them, have always been around Bososporus to some extent and traffic there. Petersburg was literally built because the Russians could not trust that they would cross into the Mediterranean Sea. And it is quite clear that if conflict were to develop in any way associated with the view of the Atlantic Community and Russia in the Baltic States, Iceland would also be the same, due to Murmansk's defense, became a developing state. This is how things can change really fast. We must always think what is impossible. This is one of them. Therefore, this is part of a national security work that should be done regularly, can call to the Academy if necessary, in order to obtain data and explanations, and any experts. That's where I think it's worth everything. That's why I applied it at the highest. Minister of State whether she could not remember, in the short term of the council and the election season, as things have pleased, provide the bill needed to establish the National Security Council. It is indicated in this proposal that it must be established by a special law that will then be implemented in the cooperation of the State Department of State and State; at least, I believe that it should be submitted by the Supreme Court. Minister of Foreign Affairs and I encourage her to do that. I'm convinced that any generals she has in charge of the State Department are already ready for that bill. Although this may be a short time for the Allied Parliament, I feel that this case is not to be used in order to complete it. This is a case that three foreign ministers have encountered, which three governments will achieve before it is fully completed. I think it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs should set his sights on this process by promoting the development of the bill. It is very easy for a person, as it were for him. Group member Ásmundur Einar Daðason to make sure that peace is reached by the government's opposition to its success. All he has to do is put into practice that the date for the next election comes and then everything here falls out of the door, I promise nothing about what happens outside the door. Finally, Madam President, I am pleased with the work of this case and the number of people involved. This indicates how the Allied Council of Iceland is involved in carrying out a complex task. It's a matter of longterm life. A lot of work has been done, and it's been done well in all places.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-12-96.u125	A respectable president. I'm going to give a brief talk about national security and its factors. National security is a very unpleasant word to say. The reason is that since the turn of the century and more terrible things have been done in the name of national security abroad; things such as spys, wars, torture, and so on. When speaking about national security, it is vital that we remember that terrible things can be done in the name of someone else that is important. It is very important to have national security policy and to get it started. However, by keeping people afraid of terrorism or other security situations, they can accept things that they would otherwise never approve of, for example, a decrease in civil rights, postponement, or even disqualification. This has been done many times through history, for safety reasons, in fact. Happily, Iceland's military culture or intelligence or the culture of violence is not the kind of culture that gives the Icelandic state a chance or interest from such violations of human rights or the like. You don't worry that such things would happen here. But we live in a world, and we work with other nations in that world. In that world there can be security events that affect here, even if they are not here. In fact, it might be reasoned that no one really has long - term interest in dealing with the threat of security by limiting civil rights, freedom, democracy, and the like. But when you talk about things like new threats, I find it very uncomfortable words, even if it's true, even if you find something new in new threats. War is not a new threat, terrorism is not a new threat, but the concept of a new threat sounds as if it would require a new reaction. Especially at the beginning of this century, people were remarkablely open to what they meant, and they were dealing with a permanent emergency, the so - called war of terrorism, which no one could explain when to end it, what conditions or where it was dependent. This would be some kind of permanent emergency that made it necessary for us to grow up and give up the vision of our freedom that we were to enjoy. It's a real danger. I mean, it's a real security threat. You see, it is not that terrorism and such threats are a mere threat to people's lives and members but also to freedom itself and democracy and the rights that we take for granted. When terrorism or any other safety event requiring a quick, clear, and correct response, it is very important that it is answered with a more balanced, unsatisfactory response to safety issues. That's why it's important that we have a plan. Such devices must not produce a permanent emergency, and they must not produce panic or nervousness in response. But the prerequisite for preventing such panic and permanent emergency is to have a regular revision plan and is essentially official, as it is. My fear of these and other terms, such as a new threat and all of that, is not an argument against having a security policy but, contrary to the evidence. We need security policy, and it needs to be clear. What a joy it is that we live in a community where we can keep a public discussion about how we are going to have a security policy! There are a number of countries where this is out of the question, where secret thinking is a prerequisite for security. That's when men are on slippery ice. Unfortunately, it happens too often, but fortunately it doesn't happen here, at least not now. As for international cooperation, there is one particular kind of - well, let's call it a new threat, for information technology. It's a threat because we're far closer to countries than we've been used to. The Internet is essentially without borders, and everything is more and less online now and more and more. This also means that important structures are also linked in one way or another to the Internet. In fact, infrastructures that have not been linked to the Internet have been found burglary. This is because the elements that specialize in computer fragments have become so strong that it is difficult to exaggerate. Some of the technology you read about got up there sounds like something that would take an alien to create. When security experts describe some things that have been found, you find it hard to believe that it really happened. That is why it is clear that there is a very well - funded, highly trained, highly educated, highly educated state - a state such as the United States, Israel, or something like that; a state of special knowledge and especially a huge amount of money to be involved in such violations of the computer. That's why I keep reminding you once again that it is very important that we consider the long - term security interests of Iceland not only from which people we are really involved, for example, to the United States, but also to the underlying interests that are not reaching it. In my opinion, our main concern is to look to the northern countries in that sense. Although we have the same security interests in principle as in the United States, we do not have the same information interests. The reason is that the United States does not have any authority or interest in it, such as its entertainment. This means that the United States allows for conduct that we would never, never to see, why. Therefore, our information interests are not necessarily the same as those of the United States, even though the general security interests are almost or completely the same in other ways, even if they were. When we discuss national security, it's always important that we keep this up. We have more threats than terrorism and war. This too is going on these days, unfortunately, a set rise in powerism. I'm sorry. They are a sense of security. Their rise is a sense of security. That is why the state of justice and democracy itself must be part of a policy of security. It's as far as I can see it is here. Which is extremely important. It's in the fifth part of the proposal, by permission of the President: ▪ To ensure the global security of Iceland's integrated international cooperation and peaceful solution to issues, disarmament, respect for human rights and rights, sexual equality, and the struggle against inequities, hunger, and poverty guided. It's just this kind of thing that's important to have in a security policy. Safety is not just about saving lives. It is also about saving values such as democracy and freedom from the forces that want to destroy it, whether it is terrorists, powerists, or well - meaning people, to react in the wrong way. I am here to support this matter and to rejoice that this important matter is being discussed in our good country in an open way and that we also live in a land that has no interest or birth to make this happen with us. I think it's important, though, that we always keep in mind that security can't only be about life and limb, it's also about civil rights, freedom and democracy.
