ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u1	The President has received a discourse, dated May 4 of that year, from the Council of the Congress on the switches of human society on the committees of the Parliament, as shown in Article 16. Congress, so Haraldur Einarsson takes Karl place on a Garðarsson and Education Committee. This change will be considered without vote if no protests are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u2	With letters, dated May 4, 2016, the president has requested this, according to the 8th Amendment of 1st. 13th par. Congress, to the Commission and Control Committee that it deals with the following reports: The government's work programme, follow-up report, counter-importation measures in 2007, the follow-up report, Iceland's National Registry, and the Agency and prison resources, a follow-up report.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u3	There have been three letters from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms asking for every request to give written answers to the application for your application. 227, on social security, on request. 1137, both of St. Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's Brynhi, and of a petition. 1145 on the move to the county service, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the Department of Economics where request is made in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 195, contracting community information from Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u4	Mr. President. I want to pray to the highest. Presidenting the case that this request was submitted. It was distributed on October 15 and adopted at the council on October 20th. This is a request for a report from the highest level. Financial and economic secretary on the deification of secure real estate loans. There are five questions presented in all categories of government opposition to ten members. It is May month now, and no report has been received. I want to pray to the highest. One president has arranged for the General report to be submitted by the Council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u5	The president has received this request and listened to it. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u6	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u7	Mr. President. Now they're going to have the highest plan. Health Minister to provide operating for three clinics in the capital area. At the top. Ministers have had a word on these matters before. As a minister, I have raised several questions about private business in general because there are many questions that arise when making such a big decision. For filming, the highest. One minister said that money will not be paid from these private clinics. However, we do know that from the two private health centers that are already in the capital area, money is paid. I've submitted a written inquiry to the minister and asked for this. The answer was that there were absolutely comparable demands on everyone, and I ask them: Does that mean that money is paid out or not paid out, Mr. President? V.E.G. A minister has told me in another answer to a request from me that there is no follow-up of money from contracts made by the government to those who provide private health care. All of this raises more questions than it answers. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of this in view of the fact that these plans are very controversial, and we have polls that show that much more of the public believes that the health services are primarily driven by the government, not just for public funds, but for public opinion, but by the government, and this has been shown in research. A poll quoted by Rúnar Vilhjálmsson shows that about 80% of the people in the country feel this way, so this is a very controversial decision to make. Minister's taking over. I'd like to ask if he doesn't agree with me on that, despite the highest point. A minister has some sources within his law code, that it is natural for such decisions about the basic changes in health care, to go before the General, that the General will have the opportunity to evaluate this and to vote for it. Minister has a clear desire for the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. We've been discussing this subject before under different lanterns. Whatever it is. A candidate makes it a subject of three new clinics in the capital area that all agree to be. The debate and the debate are about the business plans, whether it should be for sale. As the omission is required, an official organisation is expected to run the stations or unions in the majority of the health care providers. It's offered. I assume we're getting some offer in that business. The main point is, and the main thing is that the requirement for this publication will apply to the management of all clinics in the capital area and to the same arrangement for them. It hasn't been like this, and we've been running the Low House and the Sala Center for Private Business. Of course, when it was done, that discussion did not enter a senator's office. The contract at the Sala Station, a decommissioned and effective operation, was and has been replaced from political emphasis. In my opinion and assessment of professional people in the system, there is a call for greater flexibility in the management of the clinic. They're meeting their wishes, so let's see if that doesn't give us the money, as it were. Family doctors have claimed that there will be a renewal, and especially that younger people who have chosen to serve abroad will find themselves at home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u9	Mr. President. I hear it at the highest. Minister, and thank him for the answers, that he does not believe that this matter should go before the council, even though the case of him who is right has been reported, and I agree that this is a fundamental change. There are fundamental changes in how health care should be run. They're shooting a whole new system. Even if it is, and it is true to the highest degree. Ministers have the authority to make this decision, I believe it would be quite natural and democratic that the General would have the opportunity to discuss this, including Based on what I had discussed earlier, it is debated in the community, and many questions remain to form on the money I came in earlier. So I ask the highest. Minister, if this is a maximum policy. Ministers and hence his party, the Independence Party, and the election is short, whether it's not only natural to put the case in the court of voters and the Independence Party will only make it their legal policy to change this system so if it is not appropriate to take it into the council. [[The president calls.]] Because either the General or the public must come up with this decision and evaluate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u10	A respectable president. Funds have authority to increase the number of health centers. The operating system is not a legal case, a health care system is not a legal policy, a declaration and a definition of the requirements of professional health care practices is not a legal policy. It's all a project that the legislation has saved in the administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u11	...political.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u12	Of course it's political, the debate to take place here, and it hasn't been established in the current political debate, but the decision in the legislation is committed to the Commission. There has been no disagreement in these sales in the high gentleman's day, as I was referring to both the Low House and the Sala Station, a private health care center. Their life span is all political, so I don't understand why this big issue is being made up of right now. [[The president calls.]] This arrangement is available in the medical facility today and has proved to be very effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u13	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister only to travel services now because we're going into the summer that may be the largest. It took the highest. A minister of a considerable amount of time to assemble a natural pass bill that seems to have passed through the council without criticism because when he got into the council, there was no support. I felt that this was not an all - wise route, perhaps more positive than many others, but it has also been said of attendances and even if attendances during the rush hour are possible. Since then, nothing has happened. The natural pass fell asleep in a drawer somewhere, and all I know is that they're supposed to raise the host's fee from 100 bucks. of 300 K. Then they placed me at the Tourist Control Center, and I always enjoy it when the Independence Party produces a new public office, even though I know that it is partly paid by the tourism agency. It was supposed to be something very important and it might have been, I don't belittle it, but now I hear that the guy hired there without advertising is quitting, if I get it right. Then we must ask: What will be now? Should a new person be hired, perhaps even to advertise, try to get someone who is ready to be there for a long time? Is there any result of the travel Control Center? Might it be possible to post this assignment into a travel agency, or what is it like? I'd like to hear what's at the highest. A minister has been exasperating on these matters and whether we feel ready for the 2016 tourist attractions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u14	A respectable president. Travel centre was set up by an agreement between the government and the local communities and the article itself to be there as a cooperative and cohesion site, costing half of the government and the article itself. It's not fair to say in the case of the proprietor, that it's being raised. On the contrary, it is being done to ensure better coordination and better cooperation between partners in this grand work programme, where the touch surfaces are infinite. If there's something I'd have wanted to know when I started with the natural pass, it's just how many of those touch surfaces there were and that I'd have come up with this field that we've come now to set up strings in these cases. I'll discuss the subject we're about to discuss in a special discussion, the safety of tourists. They're under a lot of departments, and it's in this business that this project will never be completed without a contracting of strings and sitting at the same table. The Senator wants to know if results have been obtained from the command centre. Yes, for the sake of the security issue, there have been some strong suggestions now being implemented. We've started all the projects listed as top priority in Vega to travel services. It is true that Hörður Þórhallsson's son, who took up six months to set up this work, will not want to stay there, as he leaves for other jobs. The job will be advertised later this week, and I expect there will be a lot of candidates ending up in a very exciting job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u15	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. I'm glad to hear that the work is being advertised. There's a reason why we're going after a security issue in tourism and the safety of tourists. This is the country's largest business route, and I don't think the outsider is much of it. You're right. You're right. Minister says, this will involve a number of factors. Security is a major factor. We have a transport system, the highways of the country, where the tourists come in. Roads aren't everywhere in good condition. It is an appeal to sensitive areas. It's even black business. These are endless challenges, especially that there are plenty of toilets to meet all these tourists. If I hear more news about tourists making their needs out of nowhere and in a hurry this summer, that's an indication of a peak. Ministers have not been able to fit in. If we can't even get the room for tourists who come here, I'll ask: Can we take over all this number? [[The president calls.]] It's a minimum service.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u16	A respectable president. Indeed, there are many challenges and challenges associated with growth and such success in recent years in international tourism. However, a person must be reasonable and truthful. It's not all cold out there. A senator wanted to paint it earlier. There's plenty of toilets all over the country, there's also a map where highway 1 is too much distance to make up and set up. That's exactly what we're doing at the Control Center, but it's not right. A senator says that the outsider of the article is not much. Now that we've got a tool to sort out strings - I'm not tired of talking about it being one chain. If one of the links doesn't work, something goes wrong. [[The president calls.]] Now we have this device, a collective view, and a course that may have been possible some years ago, but it has come so that we look intently ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u17	President. Yesterday. 18 was opened for a database of individuals who have opened accounts for taxes. As a result of this and the discussion about tax cover, I wanted to direct some questions to the highest level. Secretary of finance. I would like to ask the minister if he has any theories on why so many Icelanders, whether individuals or businesses, have decided to place accounts in tax documents, including such an account for the Supreme Court. Minister, whether the minister hath less than this, or not. Does the minister believe that the use of taxes is a legitimate way to transfer money or hide money? What's your policy and plan, tops. Minister on the matter of a tax bill? Is it possible that Iceland will set some kind of example or take a special position regarding forbidding such actions? If not, why? If so, how should this be done according to the minister's opinion? Then I wanted to ask the highest. The minister's explanation is that those who have been enrolled for such acquaintances who have been asked, all of those interviewed, say they did not know that they had such communities, but they know that they paid all taxes and fees according to the rules of some of the bills they didn't know they had. [[The president calls.]] How is that possible, topv? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u18	A respectable president. I believe that was a great benefit because these data were made public, as was done yesterday and could have happened much earlier. The government tax manager has done what he can to demand the delivery of these data. We have a common interest in getting the data to the relevant authorities. I do not have an explanation in itself why the relatively large number of societies have been formed for Icelanders. But what you can see is that the Icelandic banks at one time were very active in their release, including counseling on developing such communities. With the tax industry in general, the international battles for them have been centered on certain markets. It's been about fighting money. It has been about removing the secret and thus preventing tax fraud. In this regard, the information exchange agreements and the campaign of OECD and Iceland have been available among the nations in making such agreements and implementing such rules, removing secrets. That is what has come first. Hv. So a senator asks: " Why don't we just forbid such legal action? This is where we come to the very point. It's against the law to cheat on taxes. It's against the law to hide property. There's no law against money. All of this is forbidden in Icelandic law. From a question of why. A senator can decide whether or not we should not ban activity in these areas over our heads. I believe that there would be little success if the Icelanders were to take that step on their own without cooperation with other countries and that the discussion of embargos must lead to countries that refuse to participate in information exchange agreements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u19	President. Recently economists wrote an open letter instigating Oxfam's Good News in favor of a government conference on corruption held in London this week. Leaders 40 countries, as well as representatives of the World Bank and the International Cash Fund, attend the conference. These economists and Ban Ki-moon show that it is difficult to make use of the kind of tax treatment that has been done because it certainly does not increase world prosperity and actually encourages tax cover. It is known that very few benefit from them, but tax appeals are thought to be one of the reasons why the rich get richer. In 2015, 65 of the richest individuals had as much as half the world's population combined. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister if he believes a tax dress is justified and used, as well as the highest. A minister would want to reassign a tax bill if available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u20	A respectable president. I once had a partner in that area. I haven't had any bills or kept money in such an area, so? A senator is now corrected here at the outset. What the economists have been referring to are quite obvious: To create an environment where money - drenched people thrive and where they get the benefits of an illegal job and can turn them away from tax fraud, to support tax fraud, to create an environment for which money was made, and where they provide the benefits of an illegal function. [[Up front.]] There is no reason to justify this. And the reactions that the nations have generally responded to are of the kind that we have been working on. I'll be in the next few days to present further actions in a special bill. We have discussed what we have at this council, groups of work to assess the extent of this problem and further measures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u21	V.E.G. President. I come up here to discuss the healthcare funding at the highest level. Secretary of health. The welfare committee has a bill from the highest level. Minister and is now in charge of health insurance, payment and services management. This involves two system changes, a change in the payment system and the introduction of the services management. One way is to express concern that the roof will be too high, that is, 95 of you. K. for general pay, and that about 120,000 people will carry higher medical costs if the credit system is not funded. It should also be said that, in general, the introduction of a new system of payment is being welcomed. But at the same time, it can be said that there is no other way to save money. However, it is a government of service, with some doctors making doubts. Health care in the capital area describes the support of this system change, but it does not feel that it is possible to carry out the task because of lack of funds. The excellent bill that is now being considered does not indicate that it is not to be taken directly from the government's financial programme that is to be said to be handled by the health system, suffers from this health - care card. As a result, I have to ask the highest. To take a stand on the matter, a minister may consider: Does he consider financial provisions to reduce payment and finance the health care department? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. That's right. In this bill, basic changes are being made both in the support system and in the health care and in its relations and in the national expert services. In that case, the first thing you do is that the credit system in the Icelandic medical service is that there are dozens of them, up to 40 systems that no one sees through. It is widely recognized that our present arrangement does not guarantee our weakest people. What are we going to do about it? Yes, we're trying to change the system to keep the insurance system around our weakest patients. That's what we're doing with this. It's always happened, and I've never felt that I've been doing this under the terms of trying to create a system so that the financial frame that the Congress has set for these matters will fall. I fully share the opinion that it would be more comfortable and better in every way and softer to keep it out of the budget. But this is what the health minister has to play, and within it he works. With regard to the service management, I believe it is long time for us to try to get some control over the cost, where it will be created in the Icelandic health system, and on what basis. I don't think we're arguing that this has been a long discussion, but it's actually never gone beyond this. Oh, no, no, no, We have a bill that assumes that it is possible to use references to reduce the cost of children up to 18 years of age. That's what I'm going to do. When health care comments are made, she seems to overlook the obvious fact that, in the direction she sent in, we assume that we will be added to three new operating clinics. [[The president calls.]] This has not been happening for over a decade in spite of a marked increase in people in the field of health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, but I'm not quite satisfied with the answer. We certainly live in a bad system of payment, and a prime minister makes it better. But the system cannot be changed in such a way that 120 thousand people who seek health care should have that structural change. That's what we have to do with tax money, so we're going to have to make a total of 320 grand. That's just the way it is, and I hope a minister agrees with me that the other one won't work. Otherwise, vulnerable groups experience an excessive rise. As for the Service Management Board, I agree with the Minister. But without more money, we will promote discrimination against people after farms and economics. Therefore, more money is needed for health care. A minister speaks of three new health care professionals. When I read the financial program, there is no direct comment about raising money to the clinic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The text is hairy, and for us who have read such lyrics before, we know that we are not running away from acknowledging that there is not to be enough money to be given. [[The president calls.]] How much money is going to take. Minister to access the clinic?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u24	A respectable president. The question is, How much money will the Minister put into the medical clinics, and will the minister make sure that the money for the rest of it and all of this? I've always been a spokesman for the Senate's final words in these matters. As a minister, I'm not leaving myself responsible for any of these proposals. Not at all. The Congress has, has, and must always have the final word in the way we finance the elements that hear under our excellent activity. It's just that way. When it is declared that it is not possible to place this on 120 thousand people, I allow myself to doubt the reality of that claim. Therefore, I would like to conclude: In this group of 120 thousand individuals who may be involved at some expense, there are people who can at all cost more. [[Up front.]] It's a clean line. I am fully aware that in the group that we reduce the curse, of these 10◯12 thousand people and 40 thousand children's families, there are many people who can't afford to live with the same system the day longer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u25	A respectable president. I'm in the same area as the senator who was here before me. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for his new bill on patient payment. I'd like to say, though, in the beginning that I think it's important, and I think all of us feel that it's equal between patients and groups of patients in payment. This is an important prince, and of course we should work at it. On the other hand, it's better to say that health care should truly be free in Iceland as we often decorate ourselves. But it's not like that, unfortunately. We're from it. According to various diseases, cost is high, and it has happened to us. That's why it's the highest. Minister is expected to contribute his bill, and that's fine. Still, do we not need to pause and look back and find out what diseases are simply more involved? It is cancer and the treatment for the patient and is to be accepted, mainly at the Land Hospital. In recent years the cost has gone up dramatically. It's basically because, isn't it, that the Landspians have had to play from a coin that's been small and always smaller and smaller, and then the organization's been so organized that people with cancer are less registered, it's put in departments. Then it'll pay more. Is that not the problem that needs to be solved rather than a global change? I'm just asking myself that. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to shut this down because we can't look at it. But the main problem is that LSH has had to raise the charge for patients. [[The president calls.]] Let us see, then, primarily. When I'm at the highest. The minister says that the council will determine legal resources, so I'm counting on the highest level. Minister is the one who's always fighting for funding in this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. You're right. A senator says that it should be possible to rely on the professional minister to fight for the jury and to finance it. That's what I've come to expect short of myself. But the money isn't in the council, at the Commission. The State is at the council. We must never hide it. Right away. One senator says that in part because in the past few years, the land hospital had to try to finance its operations, so it may be correct. I haven't seen the change in the payout of the Land Hospital over the years. I know, though, that it has been a very controversial matter now that the last couple of days or the losses that have been involved in retrieving patients in emergency departments. There is an examination in the Ministry, and we made specific comments on this and are waiting for an explanation of the Land Hospital for that payment. Right away. One senator says that it would be desirable for health care to be free and that we would speak to them often, so the discussion is a matter of time. Today, Iceland's health costs are about 18.2%, a gradual decline in the number and duration of the last few years. We're still over Denmark, Sweden and Norway, but Finland is up to us, there paying people more. I don't know about it and I haven't seen it anywhere, at least not in OECD territory, or in the nationalities it employs, that health care services or share in public health care costs are zero. The lowest I've ever seen was either France or Britain, where it was about 6.5%. So I don't know any country where health care is free. [[The president calls.]] I'm not a good man. It has been suggested at times during the discussion in this hall that a person wants to pursue it. [[The president calls.]] Then it's just a special discussion that we have to take completely on its terms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u27	A respectable president. I just want us to do this a little better. In the ground, I think it's the best idea. Ministers are good for organ change in these materials. But let's just look at the basis of it. If that's how I suspect that the greatest cost is in these diseases or for those who are so unfortunate to be diagnosed with cancer and to get their service mostly at the Land Hospital, and they're already paying so much, isn't that the problem we have to deal with and solve? It follows, and we always or almost every day discuss in this hall, that our health - care system needs more money. V.E.G. In reply both to me and to the senator who spoke first, the minister repeatedly tells the council that the council is using the financial resources. It's the administrative body that makes these budgets work. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. A government minister, and I trust that he will do his job in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u28	A respectable president. In 2007, when we discuss more flexing the situation, the work began to prepare these changes, and the council or lawgiver and the executive have been considered ahead of themselves all the time to make the legal rights for our weakest people involved in this bill. It is long time for me to make needed changes in this system. If it's the Senate, if that's what it's all about. A senator is discussing postponing the matter, but that is his view. I'm not its spokesman.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u29	I'm not...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u30	I'm glad to hear it. A senator is not its spokesman. I believe we should put this system change on. Then we should work to try to subsidize this even more money if the roof is too high and if there are any other factors to take under the roof, it is likely to be. But the fundamental thing in my mind now is that the Council concentrates on achieving the structural change of the bill as it is available today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u31	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion about the waste management status of the rural communities with special emphasis on the position of the Swamp and the state of the biodiversity of Lake Mey. In November 2014, I made a similar point of the subject, so I asked a senior officer. Environment Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, at present at the highest level. Prime Minister, to the very parallel part of the issue of emissions in environmental protection areas and the possible access of the State to help rurals with their release. V.E.G. The minister answered that even to enable a committee to review the CA Regulation and to initiate the assessment of nutrients to these two unique lakes, Lake Mice and Lakes. This assessment has now been made clear in a report, and it is well reported, but I have not heard anything from the Commission's work on the review of the Regulation. Today, the subject of Mycosis is very focused. The last loss has been a scourging for support from the government in implementing reforms to meet the established CA regulations and three-step cleansing as the nature of the case as required on the banks of the water. The plan is to start with the first stage, which is a town in the city of Rhivanda, and the hotels in the pack and Smokehön. It's only a quarter of two hundred and thirty-three million. K. and is obviously too small for a small rural society that must be faced with a minimum of 6 to 10 million. K. The cost of operating when the work is being done so that the State meets the local community as it has a wealth of responsibilities. We are now receiving an emergency call for the situation in Lake Mey, Laxau from Laxár and Crowyear, from Fjöggi, the society of the local people on nature protection and healthy environment in the Lakes, and from Land Protection. The EEA has watered its wow, redlist, continuously for the past four years. That's the situation. The water's environment has almost complete collapse. The pink stock has collapsed, the crest has collapsed, the bullet poop has disappeared from the bottom of the water, and the growth of blues, i.e. Cyan bacteria, become increasingly evident in the water each year, so that there is no clear after the summer when sunlight is again blocked to the bottom and stops growth there. True, natural variations are known in the biodiversity of CEE, but what is now happening and have been drawing up in the past few years, even decades, is new. This kind of collapse, continuous and long-lasting, has never been seen before. No matter how large a part of man's activity on the water trays, both the home and the rapidly growing tourism services, are in the lake position. There is something else that is not acceptable in close association with this vast natural bulb. It is part of man that we can influence directly. That's why I've allowed myself to ask the highest question. Environment and resource minister: 1st If a minister agrees that the State is responsible for the natural and biological activities of CEE and Salmon, compare special laws there and nature protection and peace on that basis, like the Ramsar Convention, and that this is one of the areas that Iceland has designated and committed to protect specifically on the basis of its Treaty, such as the Water Protection Directive, etc.? 2. Will the State come to a solution from drainages in a Strull with direct financial contributions? If so, when and how much? My opinion is that it is minimum that the State contributes to half of the new irrigation cost, 150 to 170 million. K. Then there should be a chance that the locals could work with users to split the rest and deal with the cost of operating. In many places, but there's nothing in the situation, and I keep asking about it. 3. Are there efforts on the part of the State to assist societies in general in bringing about the proper balance of waste? Would this make a distinction between rural areas that include peaceful areas, such as Strulls and Blue Forest settlements, another of which is more difficult to handle than those with access to sea and third - layer rural communities in general? 4. Will a minister and a government take the initiative to promote research in the area, to produce long serium research, but has not been the resources and resources to process and then the monitoring of the area? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u32	A respectable president. I'm glad that this discussion is held at the General Assembly. Water is one of our most precious natural bulbs, and life forms of water are rich and unique. We have orders to protect it. The Committee is for the Protection of Waters and Salmon in the special laws and in the Ramsar Treaty. Surely, then, we must react to negative gossip about life. I want to inform you about what the government has been doing in the past few months after information about the unusual state of the water, and that's what we've been doing since the last summer. At the same time, I'd like to tell you what steps I'm going to take in the near future, but I'll try to answer questions first. Senator. Regarding the first question, does a minister agree that the State has responsibilities, is it really possible to answer with a single word: Certainly? I wouldn't have to say any more about it. But the government has a heavy responsibility for protecting nature's waters. Special laws are in force for that content and water is on the Ramsar Treaty's list because of the rich biodiversity of water, as this has been shown. So my secretary is responsible for the implementation of these laws under the Natural Research Centre at Lake Mey, which studies and monitors the water. A little over a year ago, a government control team gave me suggestions on how to strengthen and strengthen our agencies who are doing research and monitoring. The bill on the harmony of Iceland's Natural Science Institute and RAMY, which I have recommended and the environmental and planning committee, is based on exactly the suggestions of this group. The main objective was to promote research and monitoring of nature water and salmon years in a systematic way, promote cross-cutting activities, increase understanding and development of data collections, and increase the exchange of information. Exactly what it is. A senator gathered here. Sadly, this work is on the low side of the committee. But all I could say was that there was constantly being treated in the Ministry and after the situation last summer, I had a special assessment of the influx of nutrients in Lake Mice and where they came from. The primary purpose was to better understand the situation and its causes, and especially to prepare possible measures for improvement. This year's circulation is earlier, and the result is consistent with what scientists have said in the media in recent days. It is not easy to point out one base or find a magic solution, but the pressures of man are likely to be added to natural fluctuations in the water. I interpret this conclusion so that we should take action to reduce stress immediately, although they may not be able to reverse the situation in a short period of time. Then I'd like to reiterate that we can't discuss these matters together, i.e. on the environment of the water under discussion, and on the nature of the region, which is right for the EEA to be involved in a red list. I think that's another subject. The minister standing here does not have the sole authority to provide funds for the survival of the individual rural society, but I believe that it is better to draw out all the facts and viewpoints in order to facilitate decision-making in these areas. Such work is started at the Ministry, and I hope it takes a short time. Regarding the third question, whether or not there is a government campaign to assist rural society in general, I would now have felt that the question had been addressed to the minister of finance rather than to the secretary of the environment, but certainly we are concerned and we want to take care of it at the Environment Ministry, for it is working to revise the system of irrigation, as it has already been, and I hope that it will be seen within a very short time. I find it difficult for us to mix up a discussion about the situation we are in in with Lake Moy, in another case because we have to look into a special place of protection and protection for the water and the state that now exists for bacterial flowers that call for our actions. There are also more factors to be considered than those obtained from bacterial flowers in Lake Mey. An application and application should be considered from agriculture as well as a plan for new projects in the region and more. So I think it's time to look into the subject of Waters, especially. We're evading a group of consultations that will give me the opinion of the 17th of June next. We would like to apply as a broader group, both locals and experts, to the responsibility and solution of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u33	A respectable president. This discussion is timely, long-term, because the impact of human activities on mineral life is not new. It's a history of many years and at least Three decades ago, men realized that e.g. The diuresis in the water would have an adverse effect on the environment there. At the top of that pressures, rapidly increasing transport services, which have caused phosphorus pollution in the water, since the water has now gone away, not only the pink but also the bullet poop and the toes of the water are gone. Those with knowledge now feel that there is a need for dramatic action, as mentioned by the Council's Environment and Transport Committee yesterday. What, though, can a dramatic action be taken? Is it possible for 350 people to meet the waste and cleaning requirements needed to restore life's water? Is it normal for a small community to live up to such things? people ask. Of course, all of us feel the responsibility and responsibility of the State, since Lake is a natural bulb that we feel we belong together. But I'm also going to be so bold as to consider something else in this context, i.e. On the other hand, the responsibility of the State and the small community society that has the authority to make significant decisions on heavy employment structure rather than on the basis of its consequences. This raises some questions about the boundaries of power and the cooperation between state and rural society, which I would like to improve in my second speech. [[The president calls.]] It also brings to mind the income route of my rural society, which I will come to later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u34	A respectable president. It is quite obvious to everyone that water's position is gravely serious and must be taken healthy, taking special measures not only to prevent evil from occurring but to reverse a trend that has already begun. It's got to make a good-looking person. We must do this by cooperating or at least sharing both the community, which is small and powerless in many respects, as well as the State. I'm the highest. Minister of the environment to action in its own time. But this is also another chapter in our very tragic history, especially when it comes to environmental matters, that we will never handle matters until we are all in trouble. For a few decades this development has been warned of building around the lake, in connection with the diatom, etc., but somehow this has always been ignored, saying: "It seems to be all right, it's still water there, until it's all gone wrong. It is thinking that we cannot allow ourselves in the environment, especially here in the north, because we live in a very delicate environment that is difficult to recover. We know that the damage to our natural world in Iceland can take decades or centuries to repair itself, which happens in fewer years elsewhere. This is a warning example. We are to put forth great effort to do all we can to save this important pearl of nature and of Icelandic people, but we are also to learn from it and to look for longer when it comes to nature. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u35	A respectable president. Iceland's unique and delicate nature is under increasing pressure as a result of a high growth in tourism. This may be the dark side of another person's good news that is generally coming out of the more and more professional sector. We must fail, and it is quite clear in the case of Mey Lake that infrastructure is designed to cope with such pressures to protect Iceland's natural and natural marvels, which are too much for small or small rural communities. We don't want to go into the radical operation to close zones, I presume. What is so loud about the situation in Lake Mey, as is so often the case, is that there is not one agreement on what causes, but it is clear from the information in front of us that there are certain things we can do and others need to be examined in further research. Our response to this situation must be very selective. There's a lot of money, and I'm happy to be the highest. A minister has proclaimed here that a group of people will be put together to evaluate these circumstances and to offer suggestions. But I also believe that we need to respond promptly by what we can do. Then we come to finance these projects. Of course, into that image comes the payment of tourists and the availability of rural communities, such as the Lake Country Society, how we can finance these items. I've previously described my opinion that I think we should start reimbursement by tourists, build a fund that can benefit us under these circumstances. [[The president calls.]] I believe that to protect these places, first and foremost, we need to consult the communities in which most of them are staying, not necessarily. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u36	President. Although the occasion is very sad, it is good to discuss these matters at the council. How tragic it has been to observe the decline in the number of life in the waters of CEE over the last few decades! Now there's a little debate as to whether it's man-made or not, and I don't think it matters in itself. What really matters is the conditions of the life in Lake Moriscos, and reactions are expected and demanded. If this is not the case today, it is clear that it will soon be too late to do something. It reminds me of the climate discussion, the climate change. Many people want to believe, not that they are man - made, not many, but very loud, and that they have prevented us from experiencing the great woe we are facing as mankind, instead of looking at reality. It is unmistakably true that there are climate change in the world, and the result is becoming more and more frightening every day. So I hope to the highest. At the same time, a environmental minister exerts himself vigorously, exerting himself to the highest level. Secretary of finance to contribute to the reporting process, which is essential for immediate action. Then I feel that it is just as important to keep in mind and listen carefully to what will be presented in the next talk. Þorvarðardóttir Kjerúlf can't eat from both ends at once and you can't take responsibility for the decisions you make in a small rural society. [[The president calls.]] The same is true of large rural areas. I feel that it is very important to listen carefully to what is going to be presented in a talk. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u37	President. I like everybody else to thank for the discussion. In addition to the ones mentioned here, there are some factors. First, there has been a long period of supply of nutrients into the water. There's a measure of man - made pressures on the water. We do not know the extent to which it is to blame when considering the condition of the water. On the other hand, in the new protection laws we agreed on in winter, we appear in 9th. ... withauthority of the President's permission: If there is a risk of serious or irreversible damage to the natural world, the lack of scientific knowledge should not be used as a reason to postpone or delay the use of effective measures that can prevent or reduce damage. This is what we all agreed on at the Allied Council of Iceland for the winter, i.e. The safety of the Rio Declaration. This rule says that we cannot keep in the dark that we do not know how much to teach marriage to man, how much to teach natural rhythms, etc. It's our duty to intervene, and it's our duty to give the benefit of nature. And I want to pray to the highest. Minister to comment on these matters at the end of this discussion, i.e. Whether or not we fully agree that our obligation to the water will be affected by the new disposal of nature protection laws. I'd like to say about the ongoing activation projects on Theist smoke and in the Bear farm where they're drilling, that we also know that it might be an impact. I wondered, " Do I not need to look at such matters further in the eyes of the water's interests? '
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u38	V.E.G. President. The reason for this discussion is the Laxár and Crowyear, which recently appeared. In 2010, however, the protection area of Laxár and Moyces was an orange list by the Ministry of Environment and Resources. In 2012, the area was placed on a red list and has been there ever since. Many factors have been achieved and investigated, but better if necessary. As a result, there will be a failure to respond to the damage to ecosystems, and everyone will lose. The birds cease to come, the tourists stop coming, and the population is disturbed. It's all under control and we've got a system to replace. What else would be irresponsible? Therefore, it is necessary to be reasonable in the discussion, not looking for those who are guilty, but to evaluate the situation and to reach a conclusion. Environmental studies have been done systematically since 1974. There have been extensive fluctuations in the environment both natural and human. However, there is a lack of research on man's local ecology. It is vital to examine man's efforts to the environment, since it is the size we know and can easily control. There is no schedule to follow to react. The population of the area, the local government, landowners, and all of us are facing the issue of decision-making. First, the old thinking must be overcome for a long time. Second, consider, map, and resolve diffusion cases at Lake Mice. Well, they're trying to get the best of it. Secretary of finance putting money on a cooperative project. I think there's some local partnership over action and we're supposed to use that together. I would also be delighted if the minister of travel took the initiative in this difficult matter with financial contributions. At the same time: A small rural society with various conditions cannot live up to the cost. The locals need help with the solution. At the same time, rural governments that use power in the area must show responsibility, e.g. When it comes to the distribution of weights and the demand for various buildings, if at the head, such buildings should be allowed at this point, as conditions for Lake Þingvall should be met. As a result, we need to take the discussion even further, e.g. With regard to the reverse of the ring road. Let us now imagine that a loaded oil truck would come out of the Kölastran Bay.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u39	A respectable president. This case illustrates the problem of Icelandic tourism in a nutshell, i.e. what can be achieved when quantity threatens quality and when future vision and long - term plans fail. Iceland is one of the big, delicate, natural bulbs that are not suitable for the mass travel that seems to be around the world. This is a concern, and this is a water business of policy management that makes us more concerned about the separation of employment and the environment. But also about the responsibility to follow authority. Small rural areas have the power to make dramatic decisions for the environment and nature. They can allow a large amount of work without the resources needed to meet the consequences for the environment and natural quality. Of course, it is sobering to think about whether or not it is time to increase the cost of our rural society, e.g. their paypells for travel services so that they will be able to take advantage of its potential. Now it would be good to have a resource fund that'll profit from tourism. Yet, there has been no courage to do so, even though this discussion has been loud for quite some time here in the halls. Of course, it must be the responsibility of the State to be someone when it comes to a place like Mice. But the question is also, How is the Kingdom best involved? Does it have capital? Is it by opening income resources for rural society, by other legislation, by restructuring planning legislation and other policies that the rural communities can use then? [[The president calls.]] Of course, it would be most successful for many people to come together to resolve this matter, but it is clear that measures in the case of Lake Myy cannot wait. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what experts have said. This phosphorus in the water must be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u40	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I am so happy that this situation is so decisive in terms of the council and the environment and transport committee as well as to the highest level. Minister has the case on his level. I can only agree with everything that has been said in previous talks. It's urgent to go to the spills. There is a cost, and we have heard, members of the district, that the local community feels that they do not have the resources to take action without assistance from the state. I understand that at some point the state has helped some rural society in the same situation. We would do well to examine that example. I trust the minister or committee will. We know that not all humans are involved at Lake Moy. The problem may vary, and in a very delicate way life may be that man's growth is the grain that fills the measuring line. How important it is that we make sure that we are not adding to the problem by what we can control! I just feel really sad that bullet shit is gone from the lake. It was a unique phenomenon. I think this natural phenomenon just exists in Japan. Somehow, we watched the bullet shit disappear from Lake Mice. Maybe there was nothing we could do about it, I don't know. At least we can take action now. I agree that we don't have to blame anyone. It just happened. But learn from this and take action now. I trust a environmental minister will do everything she can to ensure that the life of Melancholy is as good as possible. If something has to be done to push a financial minister, we must be able to go to the highest level. Minister of the team in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u41	A respectable president. Yeah, we've got a serious situation at Lake Lake, our one major natural bulb. I'd put a lake of Mice in a pack of nationalities like our manuscripts. Such values are involved. Inestimable. Clearly, the situation will be rapid and certain to the point of action. We could see that, without immediate intervention, everything alive in the water dies, with the effect on nature and bird life. According to scientists, over the last 10 to 12 years, the so - called blue - green bacteria have become a complete transformation in the life of Lake Myy. Humans debate what's man-made and what's natural. It doesn't matter. If we can stop what is man-made and reduce the effect, we should. Visions focus primarily on emissions and agriculture, and a new cleansing system has to be installed for the smokers'habitats. It is estimated to be 300 billion. K. and that annual operating costs will be about 10 million. K. A scaffolding trick cannot depend on these costs, and then the government will have to deal with the situation. The hotel being built at Lake Moth will be asked to meet the strict requirements for waste cleaning equipment. Such demands must also be made to the hotel buildings that are already there. But will this do? That's totally unclear. The water needs extra tests and monitoring. I challenge Congress to stand together to avoid this natural disaster. The case is urgent and I want to begin immediately and with full weight. [[The president calls.]] I want to establish a special task force group of officials, scientists, and locals immediately. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u42	President. It's been a very good discussion, and I'd like to encourage the highest. To the edifice and challenge the minister to take decisive action, the matter cannot be waited. It's just that way. If we find excuses, as the minister does, that makes it in some strange way as if it were not a member of the government with a financial minister - of course it should be that if they work together in the government, the Environment Minister will discuss with the secretary of finance finding solutions for the case. This is not really supposed to be part of the council. If there is a great deal of effort to find solutions to the matter immediately, it will direct its own recommendations to the minister of finance to address the matter promptly. It's just that way. Then I thought it was a little strange when I heard an interview at the highest level. Minister on these matters and including The challenge of landkeeping. You would have thought that the Environment Minister was eager to point out and put pressure on something to be done, that she would listen carefully and work closely with environmental organizations rather than be a part of it. I just think it's embarrassing, I have to say right now. It is not an option for the Environment Minister to reroute one of the most powerful environmental organizations in the country. I would rather stretch out my hand and work with those who tend to our country the night of our Common Era as a useful day. There's a secretary of the environment to do it with sincerity and determination. Then I have to say that after this discussion today, it is perfectly clear that there is a parapolitic willingness to handle this matter. And now the Environment Minister should enter his Ministry and enter the Council of State and demand that the funds for the project be placed into it immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers give the answers and prepares the questions. Councilmen and sharpens, and agrees with the last speaker. It has crystal into a political scheme for the State to come to the solution, and it does so right away. First of all, I want to say that research and monitoring are primarily about money and humanity. It's not an arrangement, it's a administrative arrangement. Everything can be solved. Second, I'd like to say that Strulling Stumps is taking their responsibility very seriously in these areas. The country government of Struggling Stumps, the one present, is very ambitious of the environment and wants to see a successful solution to these issues. I have reason to believe that the Scurvy Strategies Strategies Leader will not allow implementation for further building on the water bank unless it is assured that the drainage case will then be in order, in the first category. Of course, the issue remains to be addressed that humans can join them in such action. That's right. The reports do not produce any one cause, but there is evidence that increased pressures from man and extensive tourism are a synergistic factor, as well as perhaps. weather warming and disturbances, leading to that the richest and the algae may be made rich, the clay as the inhabitants call it, is gone out of the water, and pollutes the waters, and the salmon into the sea. It's right next to the highest. Minister for Ministers cannot by itself a financial guardian, but a minister has a suggestion. The business is in place, and it's been done this year, and last year at Ministers and Funds. The minister can suggest to his members in the government and to us at the General Assembly that we immediately decide to do what must be done in spring, named Strulley Strategies 150-170 million. K. contributement to the first phase of the spills and 10 to 20 million. K. in extended studies and data processing. That's what this is about. [[The president calls.]] Let's not make things difficult. It's the highest. A minister willing to offer such suggestions? She has the support of the council here. [[The president calls.]] We're in a hurry. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u44	A respectable president. The Minister of Environment is very ready to make such a suggestion. A senator and a former secretary of finance, who now knows how to buy the money on the island. But I am very happy for the solidarity I sense here in protecting the environment of Meysteries and the encouragements in this matter. I believe that in my case, in itself, there is no need for much encouragement, which I have been trying to say recently in the media because we have been handling these matters in the Ministry. I started research and reporting more about Lakes over a year ago because we were worried about the Ministry. I'm very glad we're making this team up to get the funding for the Mý water project, to get some help. With reference to Lake Mice, a special research center has been there for decades, so you would expect that we would have more perspective and more knowledge of this water than many of our other pearls. On this we must naturally build. Regarding the locals and what we would like to do - I thought I was improving my research work, and I can expand it so that it would be more united with the RAMY and the Institute of Natural Science, but it hasn't quite been affected. I'm excited to find out if we can make some kind of nest, or maybe a home of knowledge, or a New World on Lake Mice, because we have several research centers there, e.g. Four Environmental Ministry Substitutions plus Minja Protection. [[The president calls.]] Why not try to do so in order to improve the situation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u45	A respectable president. First, thank you for this discussion at the council. It is still timely, although it is not the first time in this case. This time, I want to discuss the matter in the light of the government budget submitted and presented here last week. As we have discussed earlier, the number of tourists is often tested by various infrastructures, such as the road system, law enforcement, rescue teams, and health care. The accident rate of tourists increases, and the number of deaths in traffic is increasing in addition to the problem we've had previously discussed at tourist locations, on the mountains, in glaciers, in tryouts, etc. That is why the government's efforts to strengthen the infrastructure that now stems from stress have been eagerly called upon. The responsibility is for the administration of tourism in the country, however, the government has a prime responsibility. The government has been called upon for a certain indiscretion in this case, and the case has been repeatedly adopted here. Hence, in March of the month, it raised hopes when a travel reformer's management programme was proposed for improvement in designated sites, holdings, and traffic control. True, money did not follow them, but the news promised good news as far as they could go. The next thing that happened was that last week, a national budget program was submitted to the council for the next five years where investments and projects will be expected to be greatly reduced during the period along with continued government cuts. It specifically states that the recession will take on the transport system. Of course, the current financial agenda is yet another reason we have to worry about the state of the country and especially about the security of tourists. All recognize that the road to transport will not cope with the pressures, since road traffic is very dangerous and dangerous. It is also a fact that in recent years, a great need for investment and construction has been developed. During the collapse, governments were forced to close their sails, and since then public investments have been drawn together by about 47%. Therefore, there must be a real concern now when the local market seems to be extending legal measures to the next five years, where further cuts and control of public projects are being proclaimed. Of course, you ask yourself, " How will this affect the plans that have already been introduced in the security of tourists and especially because of the transportation system? ' This is the concern of a respected president, who I wanted to speak to the highest. Minister. In a recent report, the highest. Industrial and business minister requested travel, you can see how unfinished tasks arise. They had become 122 last year, but the project completed last year was only one third of the one completed in 2013. In other words, some plans have been put forth in words, while the real plans for the project have been made for the next five years. That is why we take the matter up and discuss the progress with the minister. It might even be considered in the context of what was killed in the previous discussion, i.e. Travel and financing, resource or resource fund to facilitate, e.g. The local communities are coping with this tremendous, growing pressures that are not going anywhere and that are especially shrinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u46	A respectable president. The safety of tourists is one of the most important projects that have been used by governments as well as at the scene of travel management since its introduction. The safety issue may be the most clear example of projects that work best in such areas, where all parties meet and work in broad cooperation. It takes note of what happened. This conversation was directed to me by the advocate's inquirys, but I heard that it may have been more correct to direct many to the highest level. Minister of the head of state who handle road and transportation and is responsible for the policies presented in the financial programme. I'm gonna talk it over with the tourism services and the things I'm facing. I appreciate this need for discussion, but when we're talking about this sort of thing, we have to handle the facts correctly. When it is claimed that the accident rate of tourists is increasing, such as during the period of travel. A senator did so before, is simply wrong. According to information and statistics from Landsbourg, in 1998-2010, the number of people in every 100 thousand who arrived here died in accidents each year. Over the years, the proportion of tourists who die in fatal accidents has fallen from five to one per 100 of them. tourists. The fact is, the accident rate of tourists in Iceland is well below the average of the countries around us. Although we should always do better and strive higher, we have been very effective in recent years. It is important to remember that the safety profile of tourists is long distances, and one of the most important factors is to work well in prevention. My agency has designed to develop successful cooperation with Landsbourg, the transport organization, and the rest of the world. which can be traced back to 2006. It has been turned toward high - level operations and since 2010 to the 2010 task of Safe Travel run by Landsbourg. The key to the success that I mentioned earlier is a targeted prevention and information gift. Last year, 500 of you were visited. Travellers' website Svere Travel for information about the situation, weather, and responsible tourism. Each month, another hundred tourists provide a number of travel plans resulting in a reduction in the number of callings and saving lives, and these reports have minimized the cost of survival and search. An example of a successful operation was to map a crack site on the glaciers, and since the release of maps, there have been no major accidents. During this ideal period, since we are discussing infrastructure, huge emphasis has also been given on the construction of tourist facilities, especially by the safety of tourists. During this average season, nearly 2.5 billion have been placed in the European Commission budget of tourism at 650 million during the last term. These cohesion measures are increasingly aimed at improving the safety of tourists and ensuring protection by nature. As we have seen here, and I do not get tired of mentioning it is not in the hands of one minister to ensure the effectiveness of this sector. The first steps toward improving the work in this area were in progress recently when the government adopted proposals that have been implemented for extensive consultation with the Ministry, Police, Landsbourg, National Parks, Environment Services, Transport Committee for Transport Errors, Guidelines, SAF, and Travel Services, to name some. That's how we have to win things. The government then assigned the stewards to put the suggestions first, and I can assure them of what. The senator says they're all on the move and they're being processed. For example, in my department's cooperation with the tourist trade, there have already been some significant improvements in 24 tourist attractions, a number of projects related to improved information sources also depend on me and have been carried out, the government will be increased by environmental Ministers, and the security of the country's roads, of course, is a huge project, and will not only focus on tourists but on all the people of the country. It is initiated at the State Department as well as organization has improved law enforcement for the summer, and so on. [[The president calls.]] The course of course. After all, a senator called after at Vega to travel services, and using the tool Tourist, we are in a position to know where to go and how we are going to be there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u47	Mr. President. An ever - increasing stream of visitors comes with the responsibility and responsibilities of the government. We both need to think about taking care of our country and securing the safety of tourists. This requires large contributions to law enforcement and transportation, as has been done here and generally to infrastructure. Unfortunately, this is not reflected in a national budget until the next five years. Despite the highest reputation, determined inaction and inaction have been experienced. Minister of this task force together. We are not responding to the large number of tourists that have also resulted in the increase in prominent tourist areas in travel accidents. [[Up front.]] To prevent this, we must do everything we can. Even if certain measures have been taken, we need to do much better there. The country's roads are often dangerous for tourists, and there is an increased risk of accidents. A treatment plan does not reflect the fact that we are getting involved in it. That's where the money needs to be. This calls for the great wealth this article brings into the country into the interior, for its failure to finance and who is responsible for what is to happen. Each minister will refer to another member of this suit. I just remind myself of a proposal I am the first importer to take it along with members of all groups, about the risk-benefit risk management of tourism where a U.S. Marshal is required to risk Iceland with regard to tourism, and then will be checked for the need to set specific rules for high-risk areas. [[The president calls.]] This is the third time that this proposal has come before the council, and I believe it, and I hope we can get it approved and settled because it is a good entry into all this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u48	V.E.G. President. It is estimated that with increasing tourist currents in the country, pressures on the whole interior of society are increasing. In recent years, that stress has improved, and it certainly calls for action. The country's road system cannot resist an increase in traffic weight, since its condition has deteriorated over many years. There has been an increasing demand for international services, both for ourselves and for tourists. All I can see is that we have to make significant improvements in the maintenance and construction of the road system. Therefore, it is very important that we accept the existing transport programme to carry out our work ethic. Then there is the need to make good use of the budget that has been established by the wealth of the Kingdom and that is made available. As mentioned above, the public has set out a number of projects to improve the safety of tourists and to place more than 2,300 million in the seminary. At that job, there are a lot of people, and that's a good thing. Many people come to see that the services of tourists vary from time to time. During the week, I drove for terrified tourists up on the Highway. A young couple were stopped at a forward - driving car on summer beds. In the mountains there was a winter storm, so it was moved. Happily, I was able to turn the car for the people and guide them to the settlements. Sadly, this is not the only story that can be said to be true, for it is the fact that some rental car rent direct tourists on the road to the country's underprivileged vehicles. I can't imagine that these travelers have a good story for the country, just like many others who have been stuck on small white cars in high - towering, unable to manage the country's roads. I'm sorry, but some companies are spending time with those who do well. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there are any resources available in the tool box so that amateurs who seem to be putting more emphasis on profit than on safety matters can be stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u49	A respectable president. Thank you for your important discussion. I agree with it as the highest. A minister has said, of course, we would also need to have the highest power. Minister of state here, even the highest. Health Ministers, for this group of paints into so many departments. However, the safety issues have been focused on. There was a report, I remember 2012, which sadly ended up in a drawer. If I had to criticize the former government for something, I thought it might be a bit of a powder to market the country. I would've wanted to put money in security. I don't necessarily think it's a goal to have as many tourists in the country as possible, but that we can receive them and that the country has a mass. We're not really ready for the number of people here. I'm very concerned about the security situation. I'm very concerned about the law on the street. We know that visitors from some lands do not like seat belts. They don't even know the signs, as revealed in the discussion of accidents on a single - story bridge. I think it's a lot of concern if there's meaning here that foreign tourists don't even understand that they're entering a dangerous chapter. Could it not be just a red - foundation whistle sign or something other than some unique symbol, meaning a single - build bridge that we know and even know where? It is not to see that law enforcement is being added on the basis of financial and financial programmes. That's a huge concern. This summer, highways should be filled with patrol officers watching too fast, driving cars, driving under influence, and so forth. The fines of it would actually return to the state's funds. [[The president calls.]] It's a little too short, but thank you for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u50	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion, and I really thank the person who speaks the language. There is one thing to consider when talking about a number of tourists who were killed by an accident on their way through the country, and that is that there have never been so many tourists in this country. This has increased over the past three to four years, so talking about percentages is really not anything that really matters. Last year, one of the most terrible traffic accidents was for tourists. Never have so many tourists died. In turn, there have never been as many tourists in Iceland as last year. We're not only talking about fatal accidents but also about fractures of the arms, broken leg, tugs, and more about the behavior of tourists. It's important that we try to get better acquainted with tourists who come to the country. I know of my conversations with ambassadors of several countries in Iceland that they are very concerned about the situation here for tourists. Many come to them to look for information about things. I think and believe that a much closer partnership could be made with the ambassadors' offices here in the country, in order to translate the information that is available, e.g. On, by permission of the President, Iceland Academy, produced by Promote Iceland, which is so called the Europeanprivate partnership, I do not have a good Icelandic word for it. That's even. ... witha governmentabeyondance. 15 ys. A positive visit to Iceland last year, and a lot more people in this country I believe well. The same with e.g. for the Chinese, the Germans and the French, their ambassadors' offices would be willing to translate Iceland Academy to get more comfortable with these tourists. I think it's very important that this discussion has begun. [[The president calls.]] Not all tourists speak English, but we need to try to reach them all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u51	President. I can't begin this discussion without saying how frustrating it is for me to see here as if there was nothing to be done about it. We are waiting for the greater part of the council to make peace with the less part of how to continue the Senate work and to complete this council, whether it will be a continuation in August or not. I must spend one fourth of my time protesting that we are not being reconciled so that the council may have some peace with the people we are serving in this house. V.E.G. The minister who spoke earlier in this case has been leading this class for three and a half years, not getting tired of telling us how complicated it is and how many are involved, and we need to get along with it. There is nothing new in this world that we need to coordinate our work with counseling or to coordinate the work of people in general. It seems more likely that something will happen here. People talk a lot, and they write reports. But then nothing happens. I'd like to mention the difference that may be in the security of tourists and that is, for example, the kind of thing. The safety of the tourists who travel in groups and the people on rental cars. I want it to be directed to the highest. A minister, whether it was right to make some special campaign on the rental car rent to provide information, to have a good map, and to make sure that people do not go on the road to almost disabled cars according to their circumstances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u52	A respectable president. Thank you for this very important discussion. At the same time, I'd like to say that I have this dream that a case like this is put into place that all the data is collected and analysed, and that they're working out that nothing needs to be talked about, it just happens automatically, there's a certain amount of funding that goes into the traffic system. So there is always a question of how much money we have and how best to prioritize by where the accidents are, where the risk is, where the pressure is increased, and how we can deal in advance. Money does not have to be worth much. But it's true that we've lost a whole decade in transportation. Building up there is a great deal of work. Meanwhile, we need to determine what is soon to be done to improve. Everyone has a responsibility. It's not always the government, the government's coming and paying, and the government's supposed to take care of it, etc. This is the cooperation of all the parties involved; tourism, rentals, insurance companies, and society needs to come up to this. But what you can do and have been put first now, which is good and hopefully will remain that way, is that it has been 430 billion. K. This year, the Road Building, the Association Room, and the police are to prioritise on road projects, including road transport projects. ... intheexperience of police surveillance. It has been found that four out of five accidents can be prevented if the surveillance is strong enough. These include the transfer of special traffic monitors from the Grouping Agency to the police, which will increase the summer demonstrations of the police. They work with a black spot, meaning on single bridges that have been very difficult for tourists, underways and resting areas, and so on. There are also data processing, automatic monitoring, and many more. There are many of these things that you can do without going on major transport projects that still need to be followed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u53	Madam President. Surely all of us agree that we want tourists to be safe here and feel safe here. As a result, it is tragic that accidents have taken place that would have prevented them. In many respects, the same dangers exist for tourists as for Icelanders in general. So much of the same factors help tourists and local residents to be safe. There are good examples of increased traffic security, transportation, and road transport. As a result, the local security of tourists is greatly improved and the safety of the locals is combined in many ways. Therefore, I feel extremely concerned that the process of transportation is the way it is because it involves nothing more than a plan for neglect of community and transportation keys. The same is true of a government budget. I think it's a good idea. Kjerúlf Ólína of the Þorvarðardóttir to discuss the safety of tourists in connection with a national budget. V.E.G. A minister is found, at least in part, to be directed to another minister. But I do not agree because in order to be successful in security, both general and specific work is needed. It's a matter of working against the Ministry. There should be a budget at the highest level. Further, the minister of travel is concerned with what she is supposed to do specifically toward what is going on in her case. [[The president calls.]] I'd especially like to mention meaning, i.e. to have them designed to be understood by tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this discussion, just like anyone else who's spoken up today. This is an extremely important issue, and when we talk about security and travel in Iceland, it is rarely too often used. That's perfectly clear, despite the most beautiful words at the top. A minister of a lot going on and being doing a lot of work, which I have no reason to question, that the situation in this group is very bad and very serious. As we have seen in the case of the Minister, these matters are all in the custody of more ministers; the health minister, the Minister of the State, and then the secretary of travel. But maybe the situation is best described by a challenge that came to us members of the Parliament today from the National Contact of Fire and Medical Transporters. There, at the General Assembly, they challenged the more serious and rapid situation that has come up in the Southland treatment trades and suggest that money be made up of these medical supplies. In fact, they express great concern over the tremendous pressures that have taken place in hospital transporters. Now I'm talking about our district of the Minister who I think is all right with me for this reason because it's the ideal thing to take with most tourists. The situation in the district is very serious. If they don't get caught right away, I don't like the situation. Of 16 deaths in traffic last year, six were in the Southland. This letter shows that the total number of patients since 2011 has increased by less than 50%, the number of emergency calls by 90%, and the distance from miles is also about 90%. One out of every seven medical transports has to do with foreign tourists. I don't see that the financial program assumes that this is going to happen. It is clear that there is serious problems with the South American Institute of Health and with regard to transportation this year if significant funds are not added. If funding cannot be added to the Southland medical transport business, other services of the health care facility must be cut off. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the minister of travel to get involved in the government to raise funding for this group of litigators.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u55	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking you for the discussion. It is too late to cover the well when the baby is dropped into it. As it turned out, we were not prepared to get the entire number of tourists to live in the country. Instead of immediately setting up a plan, e.g. how we planned to manage the nation's heavy tourism and protect our country at the same time, we put even more emphasis on creating opportunities for tourism and recreation for tourists who come here. Of course, it's good to take advantage of opportunities and create employment, but in this regard, we completely forgot to keep all the innovations and occupations that came up with it, so you don't talk about law enforcement and security, both tourists and localists. First, the tourist season over the summer was over the summer, but with more marketing, it began to stretch over the winter as well. North light travel, engine travel, skiing, and other things that mean we don't just have to make better footpaths by hand to improve the security of tourists, there are so many other things. Are Roads OK? How is their service to them? What is the information given to tourists? What are the cars they drive out there? Have these individuals ever driven to snow and sharks before? Do they know how to read in the weather and conditions in the wild? Are the rescue workers ready to carry out this assignment with us? Is the police well - prepared and prepared? I want to agree with what. Árnason It's not all on the shoulders of the government. But if we are going to increase the security of tourists and continue to emphasize the need to get them to the country and travel around, we have to prepare for it. As the minister considered, we need to continue with all the fine assignments that have been started. Today we don't have the number of bunks or rental cars, and last morning we heard we were losing the number of horse rents on the land and horses used in it. There are no rules about mini cars with sleeping positions, which places they use when sleeping, and almost impossible to collect tickets written on rental cars through speed cameras. So I say none of this is a new problem. However, this challenge has been taken into account in the work of a new law enforcement program, and surveillance agencies have been fully exploiting their resources. [[The president calls.]] Now it is our turn to go on and block the well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u56	A respectable president. I've got to start by saying, "What?" paritaprevir Páll Björnsson Bearsson in an ambulance in the South, where it is the largest or most popular tourist route, including About gold Falls and Geys. According to the information I have and as far as I know, there are the most difficult days, the largest days, up to 10 of you. A man who goes the golden ring, or the Thiingle. If we have a ten. e.g. in Reykjavík, at human conventions, we also have aid workers in the area to shorten the time to react. When it comes to the use of medical care, something that the public is about to deliver, the sooner we can get the person under medical care, the greater the likelihood that he will recover as soon as possible. By shortening our ability to react, we are naturally increasing the life expectancy of people who suffer serious accidents. So it is absolutely necessary to have ambulances at the top of the tourist attractions. According to this, we need to place some burdens on the rental companies and the tourism companies. One simple solution that would undoubtedly solve many problems, especially in Icelandic winters, is to have the tourism companies and rental cars buy human resources for all tourists and a duty to use them when they are on trips e.g. to Kappus or Gold Falls and Geys when it's slippery. Now I've done a very short research job, and I can't help but buy a human point for $1, if not less, if you order a thousand pieces from China, which is approximately 140 to160 you. A call for a thousand. It's something that's quite possible. This is also something we could assign the tourism companies to do. [[The president calls.]] And this shouldn't cost much. 150 up. Security call 150 yours. Call to prevent fractures, it's worth it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u57	A respectable president. I still thank you for this discussion, but I must say that I would have liked to see the highest. Minister only a cheerleader, and perhaps more progressive in his tips here. I'm sorry that she has chosen a way of minimizing verbal abuse by questioning the information presented here on the accident rate of tourists. In 2014, three foreign tourists perished in accidents in Iceland. A year later, in November 2015, that number had reached nine. Nine foreign tourists had died that year. As a result, the number of deaths among foreign tourists had tripled in one year. This is the information that was available when I asked for the discussion, and I think it should be handled. Other members of the Parliament have also called attention to the cry of hospital transport because of an increase in 50% of the hospital transport in connection with the migration of road transport. This is a concern, and this is why the subject is being discussed here. Hence, it would have been desirable to be able to take a deeper date and sincere discussion of this problem that must raise any concern for us. I don't think it's quite good at the highest, either. Ministers to indicate that the Minister of Internal Affairs was closer to bringing in the discussion about the conditions in the transport system because the Ministers work together in the government and the Supreme Court. Minister of Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir is responsible for the safety of tourists, which are linked irreverently to the transport conditions we must discuss in this context. We've long been aware of the impending increase in tourists. [[The president calls.]] It has been discussed for decades. This is not a situation that needs to be unexpected, so it might have been more effective to take steps to increase the income flow into the state fund, e.g. with the establishment of resource funds or some further payment in the tourism service to deal with the more urgent problems that are still unsolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u58	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, which has done much to do in a practical and perfunctory way. I'm sorry if an apocalyptic doesn't feel happy enough. I have to do something about it. I don't think so, and now do I look into my own heart, that I have been minimizing a proverb. On the other hand, I carried facts and statistics from Landsbourg on accidents, which are official figures. There were numbers and we must and must consider it in this context when the increase is just as it has already been. [[Up front.]] What has crystalred in the discussion is what is characteristic of the tourism service and which I keep repeating, i.e. that it is the industry that most people have in touch with the other jobs, with the whole association, with the institutions and the public in the country. If there's something that should have been done ten years ago, it's to secure more fully the cooperation necessary to complete this mission. Hv. paritaprevir For example, Þórunn's Egilsdóttir asked: " Is there any tools in the tool box to prevent rentals from sending cars to a pagan background? Yes, we have established new rental laws that make clear demands, conditions, and are guilty so that if you do not comply with the above recommendations, fines can be taken. The information and need have also been discussed, and I agree wholeheartedly with it. For example, to produce information in more languages, also in connection with the rentals, I can mention that the so - called steering cards placed in rental cars have been available in a small number of languages. [[The president calls.]] Now we're putting it out and making it more graphic. It's part of the Board of Directors. We're working on a number of things all over the board, and we're all responsible for this matter in one way or another. We're talking. For the first time, transport plans are being discussed with regard to tourism. It hasn't been done before. [[The president calls.]] We do these projects one by one, and I'm really impressed. A senator to study on the board what is going on because it's where we're putting information together, including what we're working on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u59	V.E.G. President. I recommend this adjustment proposal submitted here at 3rd. This is a slight change of word, so instead of the word '- Kingdom, 'a-team 2 mg. a-arms 2. The bill comes in: origin. This is consistent with the other articles of the bill, and I really hope that these adjustments will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u60	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Commission's list of changes in bill proposals to legalize the house - to - house subsidies, No. 78/? 2002 (heat strength). The bill is brought by a professional health committee that has been discussed and contacted by Guðmundur Davíðsson and Klara Árnadóttir from the Kusar Jeep. The bill suggests that if certain conditions are met, stock strengths for new heat plants will be allowed at up to 16 years of the estimated electricity subsidies to house heating in the heat - supply system. According to Article 12. The current law is based on 12 years. Regarding the case, it was said that there was work for a heating plant in a spider's scaffold. The committee proposes a change in the bill's translation section to make it clear that the laws of the law apply to thermal irrigation if preparation has begun or done ports. At the same time, the Committee proposes this change of 2nd paragraph 1. The bill that the heat source should demonstrate the ability to fulfill its commitments by means of a management plan to 16 years of age. This suggests a slight change in the rendering of paragraph 1. Under this adjustment, write why. The members of Jón Gunnarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir Björt Ólafsdóttir, Kristján L. Möller, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson and Þórunn Egilsdóttir. The case has been given by a professional road committee, as I entered earlier, a respectable president, and is designed to meet smaller rural areas in cold areas so that they can go to the great deal that heat - management projects can be done in the local community. This is especially the country society in Korea, where after years of searching, we can say, there was enough hot water to be distributed around it. This results in a tremendous change in quality of life, but it is as in the past that many smaller rural communities often said to attack such a great deal. Other rural areas are underneath, and this is why the committee agrees to suggest that this also applies to the areas and rural communities where infrastructure is already being performed. There we looked to the northwestern district or the Hun Assembly of Westerns and Tattoos in particular. We also know that in Hólmavík, there are ideas of trying to run a heat supply, and the Cape of the Hornfjord has recently found enough hot water to help us try to win it any further. It is our hope that this case is a meeting here, such as the Committee, that we have found nothing else, and that we can take this important step in trying to increase the population of the country through the scattered settlements that can enjoy the quality of life that we all know to follow natural hot water. We know well who live in such areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u61	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of police law and law on the rights and duties of the government's personnel for police education. This bill suggests that there is a new order for police work here on the country and a proposal to bring police education to a university level. V.E.G. President. One of the basic roles of the government is to uphold law and order, to ensure the safety of the public, society, and the State. Police are the institution of a society that has law enforcement in the wide sense of that word. Police education is a key factor in improving law enforcement. It is important that it answers every time for public safety and is comparable to the education of police in other European countries and especially in the North countries. Factors such as Internet security, the growth of organized crime, and the increasing threat of terrorism are the dangers that European countries see and call for increased knowledge and training of police officers. The objective of police education and training is to ensure that at any given time the police can handle their most important tasks; to ensure the security of the citizens and the fundamental interests of the state. On May 14, 2014, the Allied Council adopted a bill to legalize a change in police law No. 90/1996, which became law No. 51/2014. In accordance with provisional regulations, a group was appointed to review the State Police School organization and the proposal for the future police orders. That group returned a report on September 15, 2014. Later, in February 2015, another group was appointed to reevaluate the content of the police study, including its role. reviewing the content of law school here, both basic and advanced studies, and offering suggestions on how to improve the study could take into account the needs of society. It was strongly decided that both groups were to transfer police education at a university but also that special unity within the police would be responsible for the linking between the theoretical and practical parts of the study, as well as the doing of research and educational work within the police. The bill aims to introduce the proposed changes to the report of the latter work group, in accordance with the September 2014 report of the above. They were implemented to consult with a representative of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The bill puts up a new order of police control here on the country. According to the current U.S. Department of Police Education, the State's Police School has been trained by police and is an arrangement for the school to be found in the VII. of police law, No. 90/1996. Police School is now measured on the third to fourth level of education, i.e. in high school and in a college phase. The arrangement for study has been two years in high school or a similar industry. Those who graduate from school have had it measured to over 60 high school units, and these units have become very limited in high school and even less at a university. The current education is not recognized by other educational institutions; therefore, it is not easy for police officers to pursue further education, either here or abroad. It has to be said, just as it is, that it is a great flaw for police officers to find it difficult to pursue advanced education. How important it is to provide for their education to enable them to do so! In other parts of the North countries, police studies are being held at a university or at special university police schools. The bill suggests that the State Police School will be laid down and therefore its activities. It is important to note that the new order of police checkups in this country does not affect the rights of those who have completed a State Police School test for the implementation of these laws. V.E.G. President. The bill's main changes are three. First, it is suggested that police education be taken to a university level according to the standard in other parts of the North countries. In this way a secretary's authority is laid upon the course of a university case in order to establish a university learning and research contract in the field of law, in accordance with the regulations of Article 21. law on university and in collaboration with police educational and evolutionary centres. It is a fundamental change in police education at a university. In this way, the State School of Police School is moving to university, but according to the university law, the school is responsible for the work of the school and therefore has the authority to select the teachers who will take care of it. Regarding the academic and professional development site, the Ministry assessed that there are many tasks to be carried out different from those carried out by the police school today, even if there are similar tasks. The experiences of the State Police School and their knowledge are of vital importance to the continuation of the case. The Ministry has worked and will continue working together with the Police School and his staff. Second, it is suggested that police staff conditions will be subject to a double test in police studies equivalent to at least 120 standard college study units. Part of the study should be conducted by the police. Third, it is suggested that the school and development centre be established by police within the office of the State Marshal and that the State Department's Police School will be laid down. The function of the network must take care of police students as well as the educational work. It is expected that these will be a contact with the university community on police work. Education and occupational development site should handle the planning of the ongoing education of police officers within the profession, including the planning and supply of specialized training procedures. Then, in order to improve the development and professionality of the police, the estate will be responsible for other work at the education of police officers. It is also expected that the Agency can serve other law - enforcement agencies with a more advanced education, training, and education of employees so that they can handle their tasks with increased skills and in accordance with the demands of the day. V.E.G. President. As previously considered, the bill aims to introduce the changes proposed by two groups of work groups organized major stakeholders and specialists in police education. The society is rapidly developing, and it is inevitable that the police have educational and job development opportunities to solve multiple tasks. The legal environment and the outside working environment of the police are constantly changing, and the education of the police needs to be adjusted accordingly. During the transition to a university police course, a platform should be established so that the police can better carry out their assignments according to the urgency of their times and thus serve in the way of society as expected. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the main subject of the bill and suggest that it be referred to in the highest order. General and educational committees for the proper treatment and treatment of 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u62	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of this case, which is a long time and would have had to be made sooner, so I agree on that, at least From the dates listed below. There's two things I'd like to ask the Minister about. First, it is the location of the study. Colleges, as noted, have been given reviews on the bill, and most people are positive. I wondered, " What is the most important thing for us to keep in mind when we consider education police officers and what school was best for us to attend to in the scattered areas? ' Does the minister think that it is desirable that this study be offered in some way? I may see that if the study continued in the capital area, the majority of the police would be to educate themselves in order to stay here alone. So you watch that police age and are at these one - person stations or perhaps few stopping in the scattered settlements and those who have been temporary or otherwise would be more likely to attend the study if they could take it away. Then I'd like to ask about the academic and professional development site and if the Minister can see that the police officers who are now at the State School can work there while they're getting it ready. It seems to me that there's not a proper explanation in the bill that specialises the work programme, the training course, and whether they might have been better equipped than many others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u63	A respectable president. First, because of the location of the school and the preconceived university. As I said in my speech, it is, of course, the decision of a high school minister in the end is what it will be. He is the one who will make the deal with that university even though I have a natural opinion of it, and the Ministry has a natural wide range of opinions on that subject. Then I'd like to say that there's school food, and there's a lot of interest in this matter with them, that time is enough to prepare this matter. I know exactly what the senator is doing, of course, you always want more time. It often takes time to complete a case permanently for treatment into the council. Now it's here, and we think we'll keep our time limit. Schools know that the matter will work out and will be able to prepare accordingly. Without my wanting to go very far in this speech, I'd like to state that the police are naturally active all over the country. While heavy police work here in the capital area, it is vital that we get police officers to operate in the scattered areas and that we think of them as well as when we organize these matters. It's quite clear, so I don't go beyond saying it in that way, that there are colleges beyond the capital area, and there's no premise about it, so I'm saying it needs to be in the capital area. But this is just an examination now and must try to make the best possible outcome. A letter to the school mentioned that at least Part of the study may be taking a long course. I think we should take advantage of highly advanced telecommunications options. This is of utmost importance to those who live e.g. in the most widely distributed regions of the country, we organize the study organization in such a way that people can apply what will be done to some extent in their community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u64	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. How satisfying it is to hear that there is a positive attitude about having the study in the country! I've been thinking about it a lot. Then I'm also thinking it's a little school, but these are few students. And if this is a small unity, if we are talking about maybe 40 students, then perhaps in many respects it would be reasonable for the study to be conducted at a small school that could keep such a delicate study as the police school is. I agree, and I am very happy that the study is on the way, i.e. Going to college. I'd like to mention, though, because I don't think it's happening here, it's actually just stated that there should be a fee that should be paid to the staff at this school, that it's not exactly spoken of how the training is supposed to be done. It's only supposed to be under the education and development site in some form of cooperation. Now we know that we lack police officers and are able to carry out the goal. So I ask if those who have been doing this, including... This training program at the State Police School, who is expected to have quit or at least assuming that they could be willing to take care of this. Then it's also just thinking about the devil in it. Where should we get the men to do this? Yes, we regularly hear that they need people for the work. We're now graduating now 16, so I guess we're not going to be out for two years or about to be written out, and that's when it's going to be over again. Of course, that's what the police department is worried about. [[The president calls.]] These are my speculations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u65	V.E.G. President. For the study organization at the mansion, it is naturally what is being worked out today. The idea is that the study itself passes the police department itself, i.e. that the officers can collect the knowledge that comes from them. That's what I'm thinking. It's the thought of having it spread. I hope it's going to work. I think it's very important that we make it. I would like to think of it this way, even if the mansion is one thing and another, that it is, what I'm supposed to say, a red thread in between. For the police school and the employees there, I can't answer any different now than it is doing there planning on how to do this. Of course, we know that there are very good people there who have served school and the police very well. I do not doubt that there is much knowledge at hand that we must not shrink down. That is why I think that when we make such changes, we need to think about the future but also make the best use of what we have experienced.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u66	A respectable president. I rejoice in this day of joy that this matter has come, but it has a long history. In 2004, I was reminded of this in the police school report. The National Association of Officers had been discussing this for a long time within their ranks and formally set out in 2008 to prepare for this. So this is a big deal. Much work has been done in preparation for this matter. I've had the privilege of coming to that job, of course, first as an officer of the 2008 National Association of Police, where I watched the work and then in a group I led in 2015 to determine what police school should be. The first question for many is, Why are they moving the police school to a university? It may not have been my goal at work to move the school to a university degree. Rather, it was to increase the study of police officers and to respond to the social developments and see how the professional police and her trust might be guaranteed in a harsh society. There are much more demands and projects to become more complex and so on. Also, to run a powerful educational agency, there must be certain infrastructures. In 2006, I personally attended the State School of Police, where I have a great and powerful work. In many respects, that work prepared me very well for the work I later performed as a policeman, and I have nothing to complain about. However, it is not to deny that this school did not have the infrastructure that a normal educational institution has and may not have the same opportunity, although it would be best to study police studies and develop the study from day to day. It is also ideal to move the study into the education system so that it is assessed by a different study. This may add a more diverse group of people to our study, since we have assignments in many lands. A lot of attention was given to how both donations could be financed and, above all, that of police officers in the scattered areas of the country where it is often difficult to obtain police officers. Part of it is having the study available and worth it. Similarly, to open the police just to get a cross-cutting approach to the job, the police know better what is happening in other areas of society in order to cooperate with it. This is also so that other areas of society know what the police are doing and know the problems and can help the police solve it; change procedures, bring criticism into things and all that. All of this is important because we know that the police are one of the highest powers in the state, that they have great legal authority. The use of professional authority and responsibility is of vital importance. A well - trained policeman would then have much to do with that subject. We also know how the environment has changed and so forth, so we began working together in this group when we were preparing for this matter, i.e. What's the role of the police? We sent the case to the various members of the community in order to get them to see who should be the role of the police and how they should be prepared to handle that role. We also went to the State Police School. We went to police schools, researched inmates in many countries, had visitors at a meeting of the Committee elsewhere from education society and other such, examined law enforcement programs, a security plan for Iceland, a network security plan, and other such programs. This led to a conclusion as to what the average policeman would have to make in order to carry out his job according to the demands of the public, professional life, and other institutions of the State and society organizations and the like. There were two outstanding features, i.e. The role of the police is varied, much and wide, and much change. Hence, we felt that the police study was very important to us on the basis of the ability to seek knowledge, i.e. how you can constantly update your education and learn a certain methodology and things like that, but not why we should do things the way we do them today. But the major factor was the spiritual factor, the human factor. He's a bit of a multiplicity. It is not only how the policeman treats himself in the work he is doing in a variety of, stride situations and other things as well as how he prepares for it. Also, how a policeman is acting in his work under difficult circumstances, under diverse groups of people, and under different circumstances. That's one of the big parts that had to be updated. The conclusion was that the schools that are below the university and we have here in Iceland - we don't exactly have a professional college here, but we have high school and this kind of education, but it doesn't add anything to the missing factors. However, when most of them were present in the university community, we were able to change existing systems and to use existing career courses that fit into this work analysis, as we did. Hence, the study was suggested to be a university degree, but although it was a diplomat, which included two years of study to 120 units, along with training. Then it makes it possible for police officers to enter the education system, get a little more vision of the material, make use of the infrastructure, and experience, and so forth. Then those it votes for take the third year and graduate with a BS degree in police studies. By doing so, they have had some experience in the ministry and have seen what privileges are in place, and they have dealt with specialization. They can also do research projects related to the work. I think it could be very effective for the police in the future. But we cannot deny that there are strict demands in the police today. 68 units is already required. It is being increased only by age and by other factors at the same time. We know from the university community and in general that people can gain professional experience. They can go to a university bridge and various ways to go to school. So I don't think there's a lot of police personnel being cut off by this arrangement. Not at all. I think this is gonna call for us to get people with experience. That's what's most helpful to the police, i.e. An experience in the ministry in order to care for it in the best way possible. In this context, it is also important that the demands for policemen have become much greater. Hence, it is reasonable to expect a little more from education at the same time. However, today's changing world has become a fact that every police officer needs to be able to secure an electronic field. In almost every language the police come up with, some so - called electronic field or technology. The police have begun to analyze and address more complex matters at once, in the early stages, much more than ever. I can mention such matters as domestic violence. If so, it is important to have a certain knowledge of it. It can be noted that in judicial cases, the first report by the police, written by the general policeman, who is always the top document, is one of the most important documents in the case. When you look at these points from many points of view, it is clear that you are going the right way by moving the study to a university degree. That's why they also have an educational and professional development facility that has multiple roles. It's to ensure a connection between the police itself and the educational system. But it is very important in such work - related studies as police studies that this connection is very strong and active. There will also be a center of education and employment that collects information from foreign sources, from the community and from other sources, the way the police have to develop, where their weaknesses are within the police, where they need to be strengthened, and so forth, and being a little bit upset about what's going on with the police. I have high expectations, as well as how other law enforcement agencies such as the National Guard and the ultimate system in prisons and other activities might be involved in future education and development. That's how they look, for example. Modern industrial education is built up. It is a very good arrangement, although it may not be quite like this, but it allows us to work better together and to share knowledge there. I thank the police school personnel for the great effort they've done by training the police here and doing well. Police School has been widely recognized as a well - educated, well - educated institution. He has shown himself to be a mighty lawgiver in this country, and he is very trustworthy. I still think this is the right development to create the infrastructure that has not been present in the police school. I'll agree with the highest. Minister of the state that it is very important that this knowledge and experience be used by police in the police school and other staff there. I have no doubt that the university that will cooperate with education and employment center because of police teaching will seek that knowledge. I'm sure the Chief of State and Education and Job Development will also seek that knowledge, as well as larger law enforcement agencies. They may want men with this kind of knowledge and experience in training and education for them. I think the future is bright for police personnel at the school, but of course I understand that uncertainty is bad. Hopefully, we'll be able to handle this situation with great peace as soon as possible. Then you can go straight to work and eliminate that uncertainty. But it is also good to know how much consultation has been made with this bill. Main stakeholders have been in the work groups involved in preparing the bill and this change. It's very important to keep it in place. That's why I hope we succeed here at the council to settle the matter quickly, but I'm sure I can't wait to deal with it. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. There was also one thing I'd like to guess. There have been a lot of discussions about how many policemen are missing and many unskilled men will be working with the police for the summer. However, in the fall of the year, likely 40 police officers will begin their studies, and after two semesters in college, they will be much better prepared for the work than the unskilled ones that begin their jobs in the summer. So we're going to get a lot of powerful people to go right back to the next summer. Also, during times of stress, they will be able to work to some extent while studying in the police. I don't think this arrangement will lead to the lack of officers in the future. Other than that, I welcome the day and hope that we will see the matter taking a successful turn.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u67	V.E.G. President. It's true that the police mine has been an island. It's like the highest. In fact, a minister of the local ministry introduced his talk, and education has been extremely useful if man has pursued a further study or more. The units don't count in there. As stated in the objective of the bill, the law is to ensure that the police's education and training procedures can be used at any given time by the important work that comes to the police and ensures our safety as citizens and, in fact, for the interests of the State. The nature of the police work has become quite different today with the changed times. There is a harder world today, and much thrives, e.g. On the Internet, money fraud, hackers, mansales, prostitution and smuggling. This morning's news from Iceland was about the fact that there are Web sites that have even been offered. improved access to drugs, drugs, prostitution, and sale of stolen goods. The progressive changes that have resulted in a much more specialized and more educational process. It's been discussed in this bill on the application of the school whether it's the right thing to put into a university I believe is. High school does not add much to general education. It's good that students are done with the basics, they take the Icelandic, math, and what they need in high school, and they're also better developed and they know what they want to do after that. At that time, the university will be more useful in training and specialization, as well as for the many smells of the resulting field of activity. We have new types of crime that are much more extensive and tough, and by specializing individuals along the police mines and training, we can get a much more powerful team. We could also make use of linking between other areas of the university that will fit into, such as psychology, sports, nurse, and law. That is exactly what the task force called for. He said that there was no doubt that the current police school was lacking, especially in the fields of other subjects that are still connected. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen came into the telecommunications class earlier. I'd like to mean that telecommunication is the future, that students should be able to choose a course that is entirely independent of their population, and that they should rather take courses in the school rather than sit day after day, often far from their family, and not return to the smaller communities we have since felt it is difficult to get police officers to work. It was a pleasure to hear the grandest. So a minister is interested. Hv. paritaprevir In his earlier speech, Vilhjálmur Árnason made it clear that there is a rather uniform group that attends the study today, but just as with better cooperation between different areas of college, we can get a team that is better equipped to deal with these new crimes immediately, i.e. They do not have to come out of the study today and be thrown straight into the deep pool, train them to deal with the problem, that they have knowledge to do so when they come out of the study. Similarly, I agree with him that we have been deeply concerned that there are rather young people who are taking part in summer police activities. These are often people who are gathering experience with e.g. Legal school. There, students who had a set base could work on the experience they need with the study. By doing so, we could make a much better link to the physical and academic study, that they are not just standard tests while at school and then come out of it into the deep pool, but they have already had their noses sniffed by what is going on and how things work. This may not be the way they are moving it into college, but they may learn to turn on a radio or report it to the other person. I'm very happy to see the bill come here, despite the fact that you may have been French at the outset when the discussion began about the application of this study. After seeing all the work involved and the need that has come to this end, after talking to a police officer around the country, the warden, and the police officers who have described to you the nature of the problems they are dealing with today and how rapid the change has occurred in the last two decades, you can understand that this bill is being discussed here. I'm so happy to win it on a universal and educational committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u68	Madam President. I'm here to discuss only the change in law and law on rights and duties of the employees of the state, i.e. Police education. I'm also glad that this case has come to pass. I think it's a long time, as I said before, and the best. I hope that we will be able to take care of it quickly and safely so that there will be a way to get ready to choose the place where it will be best for the crowds and the professional states that are here trying to move the study even more quickly, which is a long time. We've been talking a lot about the police position in general, and this is a summary of a police study report, we've discussed a police plan and security report, and earlier we were talking about the safety of tourists, and things directly and indirectly related to the police. There is reason to wonder about it in this context, and then, as I said before, I feel that instead of paying a reward, it is a reason to use the workers we have in whatever way it would be done, e.g. in the form of making a deal with those at the State Police School today to initiate the operation, including In this educational and professional development site, or wherever else it would be best. I think we're here with a lot of knowledge and human knowledge that we need to keep. It is worth noting that in 2007 police officers in Iceland were 712, this year 653. State Marshal's office reports that they should now be around 840, so it is clear that we still have enough people to operate in a way that we prefer and as planned, security and so forth. Law enforcement is one of the basics of society. Sadly, the ministry in society is not satisfactory, as we have seen, whether for safety or for much else. Though everyone tries to do his best, we still lack human beings, including in view of increased tourist currents. That's why I feel that we should use these workers instead of spending millions for a reward. Some have a short period of time left, and I think there can be a way to find it rather than recruiting new people, expected, which, however, is not at every turn by proper education to care for those jobs as the educational and professional development centre is supposed to do on this bill. It's very extensive, so I don't think it's a lot of money. I'm going to ask you something about it when it comes to the Committee. I want to know what's behind these numbers because I feel like. 13 million. K. in cost of expertise, living and travel, research, equipment and material, and housing costs of much more money, as well as 36 million. K. at housing costs only for the local facilities of the police school. I'll only ask about it so the Ministry knows about it. As the moisture is in the bill, I felt that what the mansion was supposed to do was very extensive. They're to take care of scientific research and their practicality for the work of the police. They're supposed to plan and oversee the training and training of police students. It's to serve all the law enforcement and prosecutions in the country and to re-evaluate basic and advanced education in changing society, as is said here, and to consider the ongoing education. It also includes contact with those who are working on charges and law enforcement and who are dealing with the educational community. That's a lot. It's being made, it's going to be a development project, and that's why I think it would also be extremely good to have someone with experience and someone new in there. As I've said, I'm worried that we don't have the man or he's taking it from somewhere else. I've been working as a student and professional counselor, pointing students to the State Police School and what it takes. I think it was the principle recently that students had to have a student's test to get in because the application has been beyond this 16. That's the best thing, it's okay for students to be a little older to know that my age when they go to so much heavyweight school and a job that makes me feel that it has led to the learning of students, of course, that they have learned more and have been able to add to another kind of study in the future rather than to the fact that this study, as it is now built up, has not given the opportunity to do so. So we're changing, and I think it's really good. I agree with the National Association of Officers on Education. Hv. A senator before me said that we wouldn't have to worry that there was a gap, but the president's permission says: ▪ Police culture is the basis for each officer for the future within the profession. Moving a police course to a university degree and thus extending the study is a very good step. Putting down the police school in the present picture is crazy while the first year of the police class is in the new study. Three years without renewal in class simply doesn't work. The book is longer, but I'm not going to read any further. From a conversation with the police society, I understand that 12 ends over the next two years, i.e. Twice, 12 times and deports the class so that, of course, there are gaps. If 12 stop and 16 come in, we'll have almost a status quot. Then, in 2017, there are no more, but we make sure that 40 apply and study. In fact, I don't know how many people have applied for every year to tell how many are dismissed because of these limitations to 16 people, but this is assumed to be 40, but not until 2018. If I understand correctly, we've lost at least 12 and even 24 who quit during this period. They're missing in. I think there's something we can't afford, but I don't know if there's anything we can do about it in any way that we can work it out but that's suggested in these conclusions and comments that have been presented in the process. I agree with what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason speaks of what is missing in the State Police School and what this study should be done to students today, i.e. In terms of information and teaching on human rights, that all who go through this study, as stated in the review of Iceland's Human Rights Office of Human Rights, learn about gender equality, gender differences, race, etc., that police know the Istanbul Convention, the European Convention and the Lanzarotre contract. All of this is very important, especially now when we are faced with ever more people entering our country from abroad through all kinds of ways that require people to have a more comprehensive approach to things. Here, too, it is noted that it is desirable to engage in multicultural teaching and education in the affairs of immigrants. I think that is also part of making the study even better and will likely be guided. This is not the position of the men to whom this might mean, but since I have recently received an answer to the police pay, I thought it was a little strange to read the following, with the permission of a president: To the long future, police would want to establish their status at a class with comparable university education. Experience with similar changes in other occupational groups shows that this will be included in the treatment of parenchymal situations in the future. Then it is said that police agreements are free in the spring of 2019 and say what each percent of the increase in pay would mean for a government fund of 58 million. K. each year, probably based on what they are today. Based on the answers I received about pay and the comparison between officers'wages, they are already well - paying and feel that they are normal, especially after that information was available. I have faith that this will be an even greater leap when the study is attended at a university level. We cannot, based on what they are paying today, because I think most people can agree that they are way too low compared with similar classes, responsibilities, and what the police are doing. There are certain aspects of police training, tactics, firearm training, specific methods of research, and so forth. One minister earlier said that if I understand correctly, I would have to try to do as much of this at police stations where it will be placed. I can't see that this training can actually take place in a number of places, but maybe it doesn't extend beyond my knowledge, so I would have thought that there may need to be some specific training here. I agree that it would be desirable and good to divide it to the bigger office, if possible. Apart from the day - to - day work training that seniors receive, as with other training in school, there must be some special point to be taught here by a single person. As I say, I'm in favor of this matter, looking forward to dealing with it, and hearing the comments of the people who come to bear the opinion that I expect to get rich in some way. I look forward to winning the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u69	A respectable president. We will discuss one of the fine things that are being discussed today, this time on the education of the police. I just want to say right away that I'm celebrating this bill and I think it's very good and necessary, not only because education is generally useful but also because it's also going to have a very positive influence on police practice, especially police relations with citizens, and I think it will contribute to the better rights of the citizens. In human society, good rights protection is not achieved simply by good people working. Good people can do very bad things if they lack knowledge or understanding views that they may not have experienced or that they have only experienced from one side or another. I think this is a particularly dangerous tendency for people in positions of authority. The police are the institution of the land that can legally exercise physical authority. So it is extremely important that the city's rights protect be extremely good, and I repeat, it is not enough to want well. It is not your mind, it is the way things are done, and the processes made to ensure that right protection is the best. I believe that if the bill becomes a law, which I strongly expect it to be, it will make policemen better for public work, first of all because it is likely to be simply teaching things that are not taught now, or taught better, and at a university level that is not just legitimate, but necessary in my opinion. That, in my opinion, will increase the sense of rightfulness of police officers. I suppose, and I know that it always gets a little irritated at the highest. Policemen when I talk about it, but they need to talk about it, that a lot of police officers just don't take care of the city's rights and are well-created in situations where they may not necessarily have the training, education, and tools needed to deal with the problems that are different from the very least tempted to push in somehow aside the rights that citizens have. As noted earlier, the police are the source of physical authority under certain circumstances and, of course, rules. I think that by improving education and setting it at a university level, it will give the police different ways to cope with situations other than power or power. Furthermore, I believe today there is some kind of educational ability available by the police in Iceland, which this bill is designed to fix, and I think that this will result in an inevitable generation in which men adopt methods that are useful, e.g. how people are moved to accept a search that they do not wish to accept, but they are put in such circumstances, using some form of speech that somehow convinces those who do not want to be searched for for for reasons that are not relevant to them. Still, it agrees with a search because of the way it is spoken to. I strongly assume that within the police there would be an experience where police will learn over time that by saying certain things, by suggesting certain things, by directing information in a certain way, they will get their way. Of course it's better than pure force, obviously. But it's very bad that it's not because of education such as the one suggested here to be updated. That's why I welcome the bill very, and I think that if it becomes a law, it'll make a lot better because the rest of it -- and I know that this saying is very annoying to the police, it's just gonna be very sorry to have it. What I know is that police officers up to the audience want to keep this okay, they don't want this speech, they don't want to be under this criticism, they just want to keep it okay. Then they must have the tools too. They need adequate education, and they need a good salary. I think this bill will further help with that, over time, at least. Of course, it is always possible to wish that the other and these important professions receive a higher salary, and there are other professions that deserve a much higher salary, not only because it is fair but also because, in this case, it is important that the rights protection be the best, in my opinion. It is very positive that this is a proposal, which, for the long term, will have to at least raise the pay of policemen in a very natural way, without simply raising funds, it is done in a way that it must be a normal development of the work for a long time that the pay is rising. That's a good thing. It's very important. Bad pay for unappreciative and difficult work and the need to sit up for pirata's speeches, and there's bound to be trouble with the way things work. So I find it extremely important to keep your salary in order and that education reflects the requirements for the work that is very rich. I think the current education, which is probably fine in relation to what is available, will not be sufficient. So again and again, I welcome the bill and wish the police good luck with their legitimate and important work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u70	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the legal modification of criminal treatment procedures. The bill suggests changes to the laws on phonebands and related resources. A respectable president. XI. section of the criminal treatment guidelines allow conditions and monitoring of laboratory measures which are compatible with the fact that those involved in their lack of knowledge of them. These measures are phone service, as is 81st. The law, the recording of sound and signs and photography, as well as the a- and b-joints 1. 82. gre, and the use of the follow-up equipment compare with the c-line 1.mgr. 82. g. The law. Since these measures focus on them, they are ignorant of the privacy of the individual's private life, and there is therefore reason to set strict conditions and monitor their activities. In recent years, it has been criticized that the use of these devices, especially those on the telephone, was beyond what may be necessary. The requirements for the application of these measures are vague and espionage, and it is not clear what reason the judges have in their home, and they have specifically discussed phone calls. It has also been criticized that the monitoring of these measures is lacking. The bill responds to the above criticism and suggests that the criteria for the application of these measures become clearer and more narrowed and monitored on how to be maintained. I will now consider details of the bill. First, it is suggested that the criteria for this action be changed. Today, the requirement for study is either a violation of an eight - year prison or a state of public interest or personal interest that may require it. Then there is always the requirement that there is reason to believe that the information received in this convention can be of great importance to an investigation. It should be noted that preoperative court decisions should always be made. The bill suggests that the condition of the study will be targeted at a fracture that may carry out six years of imprisonment as well as the need for public and private interest. The reason that these measures can be used for the violation of a six-year penalty frame instead of an eight-year line in the current law is that these measures may inevitably be taken to inform the various fractions of a six-year penalty frame. These include chemical and drug abuses and various chemical offenses. These measures have been conducted in such cases but on the basis of the requirement for public or private interest. Have such a thing been vague. Therefore, it is suggested that these measures be allowed to be used in the investigation of these specific fractions. In addition, it may be inevitable to use the requested actions for fractures that may be less than six years of age. The bill suggested that these regulations be listed specifically in the law. This is a violation of organized violations, or it is contrary to privacy, freedom, and personal protection. It must be unchanged that the information has to be important for the investigation, and, of course, a court order is needed before the operation. Concomitant conditions of the penalty frame of the relevant fractures need to be available for public and private interest. Thus, a judge needs to weigh whether the limit to privacy resulting from the action that will be justified by others and important interests to inform a criminal case. The evaluation of public interests or individual can take into account the penalty that would likely be judged if the offenses were proved, the extent of the case, the level of interest in a case, or the prevalence of a crime. However, an overall assessment of the situation must always be done. Second, when a judge receives a request for a telephone service or an obligatory operation, he is appointed a lawyer to protect the interests of the person involved. When the lawyer confided in everything he is learning about in the ministry, including those with interest. The reason for this suggestion is that in this way the rights of those to whom the procedure is directed are better guaranteed, and as such, a judge is not in a position to take special care of their measures in terms of the case. In this arrangement, it should appear in the early stages of the case that contradicts the claims of the police or of the prosecution that a judge would have to take. Third, changes in monitoring of measures and loss of data are proposed. This day the data provided by the requested action will be deleted as soon as they are no longer needed, unless there is communication between the defendant and the defence, which should be destroyed immediately. The bill continues to assume that data will be removed as soon as they are no longer needed, but there is a change in the need for a criminal case to be appealed to until the final judgment is passed on. Is this suggested by the conclusion of the European Court of Human Rights since 2009, which made it possible for a different procedure to be carried out on the right of the individual for the treatment of the righteous. It is unchanged that the defendant's communications should always be deleted. Today, it is stated that the police officer should notify the surgical staff as soon as possible after the operation has been completed, although this would not damage further investigation. Especially should the district attorney observe that this is his duty to the marshals. The bill suggests that the state prosecutor's surveillance role will be increased, and he will not only observe his duty to the police officer but also monitor the removal of data in accordance with the law. It is also commissioned to set rules for how the surveillance should be conducted, and it shall explain how to inform those who have had access to the data. A respectable president. I believe that this is a great legal step and that criticism and monitoring of such burdensome measures have been met, especially when considering telephone calls. So I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to the General Committee and 2rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u71	A respectable president. A paper with the bill shows that a change suggested in Article 1. The bill remains largely unchanged from the bill submitted to Council 141 otherwise than what has been added to the list of the standards of the 210 General penalties.g. a 210. g. b. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, where 210. gr. The 141th Parliament also included the 4th material involved in child pornography: It is now up to two other teams, 210 p.m. par. a 210. g. b - what is the purpose of having 210. as it stands today, which forbids the spread of pornography, the prohibition of printing pornography, and is not about protecting children except in very limited cases, in this list? That's what we're talking about. That's six months. It's very controversial whether this 210r is. not above his head to be present. These are laws that haven't changed, they're verbal, from 1869, as far as I know, and I don't quite understand why they should be in there when it comes to the phone barn or the listening. I'd like to know what the reason for having this thing inside is and if it's something that might be worth taking a closer look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u72	A respectable president. I'm delighted to know that this bill is based on the bill of the former Minister of Internal Affairs, the son of Jónasson, whom he proposed during his final term but failed to succeed. We have continued to work on that matter and to make certain changes in it, increasing the emphasis on my own supervision. Here's a request for a 210 str. In this respect, this is being linked to organized violations, since the article is very likely to relate to such fractions. It is with the eyeglasses that need to be watched when we look at these pieces. I can't help allow my conservative to act: The fact that legislation is from the 19th century, so since the 13th century, it doesn't have to argue that it is a good price and that it can last for a long time. While the law may be a law-made problem, it does not have to fix what works well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u73	A respectable president. My concern is that it's difficult to define 210 grams. By the 21st century community. I understand the effort to resist organized violations, but for example, about 210. Gr., no judgment in the Supreme Court due to 2000; it wasn't judged for 210. gr. Until 1975. We're talking about an article that's been used eight times, if I remember correctly, everything in the Supreme Court and a little more in the provinces. It's dangerous, as far as I'm concerned, to get 210 gr. into the requirements for telephone barns when it is not certain how pornography is defined. It's not defined in a report - it's actually defined in one court of Supreme Court and I can tore it up why it's not a good definition, but it might take a long time. However, it may be worth changing 210. g. to help control the misuse of human beings. So, as this is here, the article as it really is, can refer to text pornography; there is no victim there; it is our imagination. 210 g. has also been used to justify drawing shadow pictures of people in sexual positions and in other ways. Then we are not talking about organized wrongdoing, we are not referring to any victims. So it would be good to review this article and to make it more focused on the victims of sexual abuse, both of whom are mindless and organized as well as on organized crime and prostitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u74	V.E.G. President. In my previous answer, I tried to explain why this article was inside this article. I'd also like to say, as with other points and all the points suggested, that I suppose the General Committee will get done thoroughly on the bill; bring forth the arguments behind the proposal and follow the events that are thought to improve. But let us not forget that, fortunately, the conditions are very strict for the start of this series of events. I would like the committee to view this matter in their dealings that there is action that is very internal, so to speak, when it comes to personal protection; there must be very clear conditions for such an operation and very strict supervision. I would like the committee to look at the situation with the eye that we are caring for the interests of individuals who may face this situation. As soon as it is extremely important to use all normal and legitimate means to clarify matters - and that is the purpose of informing serious offenses - this balance must be taken care of. To me, it's important that there's a warrant that people realize is extremely difficult to handle. It is from the point of view that the bill was submitted and won. So I assume when it comes to 210. gr. and even other factors, of course, will be covered by the Committee; it will have the help and counsellors of the Ministry for what is desired.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u75	A respectable president. Here we discuss one of the important issues that concern the rights of our citizens today. I must say, I'm very happy that the case has come to pass. This is in harmony with some ideas that many, at least some, have been doing over the years. I think it's a lot of justice, but with just one note I'd like to talk about, and a little bit. Tenth. Smoke. As a matter of fact, a little bit, but I think that's where the bill went too much. Other than that, I feel that there is something I would like to see in the bill and that I intend to bring attention to the discussion. We will see how it works on committees. Telecommunications are things in Iceland, including the source of access to other online communications, which, of course, are of all sorts. It's in the text, it's in private chats, there's different kinds and ways. The way people communicate is becoming more and more diverse, and new technologies are being developed. Today, Snapchat has become very popular, and it offers its pros and cons. But it remains that this is a major intervention into privacy, that is totally undisputed, and directly presented in a report correctly and by the highest degree. The minister went in on that earlier. In the presence or implementation of such an invasive procedure, it is very important that for a very legitimate reason and for good reason. There's one point in the bill that I don't think will do. (b) How can we avoid being misled by Satan's wicked system of things? ...but it's coming out, with the permission of a president: ▪ In addition to what 1st mg. the requirement to be in place to take action based on the Eighty-one. and 1st. 82. g. to aim at violations that may be imposed on six years of imprisonment and in terms of public interest or personal interest requiring it. With the same probation, these measures will be taken in the event of an investigation of 175 grams. a, 206. Gr., 210. Gr., 210. a, 210. g. b, 226. ........ 232. par., 233. gr. and 264rd par. a general penal law.• It's such a count. Therefore, it can be expected that not everyone will have a clear understanding of these articles. There are three articles that draw my attention, i.e. 210. par., she's three articles. For the audience and the readers to have it clear, these are three separate articles, 210. Gr., 210 g. a, 210. g. b. And 210 g. a and b About child pornography. I think it's totally legitimate to have it in there. 210 g. However, there is no problem with the traditional rule of pornography. Pornography is banned in Iceland. Pornography is something that I know people find difficult to talk about and listen to, and it's just gonna have to have it a little bit. Iceland is one of the very few so - called Western countries where pornography is still banned. I'm still saying because I think it's a matter of time before it's fixed. In my opinion, it is a major flaw in Icelandic legislation that pornography is still forbidden. Of course, there are types of pornography that must be banned, including those that have recently become involved in the discussion. stumbling porn, which is a very serious problem in our society, and we must respond to it. There's been efforts on this on the part of the Honorable Council of Bjart, who proposed a bill to ban what is actually called a vendetta, men call it revenge porn or currant porn, and I'm not too much for losing myself in the romance, but I call it a smidge porn. It is suggested that it be banned, and while the export of that bill is in my view defective, of course, the concept is good, the objective is very important, and we must set in law laws that make it very clear. On the other hand, I do not believe that 210. gr. a general penal law, as this article does today, I don't think it is designed to do so. I think it's made up of very old-fashioned moral ideas. In my opinion, members of Congress have a personal view of pornography, or the public, if that is the case, of course nothing. It's about people's rights and freedom of expression. I know people find it easy to say that something has nothing to do with the freedom of expression if they want something to be banned, but it's still relevant. It just does. How important it is that when things such as pornography are forbidden, they have a very clear basis for it and are answered in a satisfying way as to how it is justified in the terms of expression. Besides, in our community, pornography is a lot used, it's a lot to view pornography. A number of scandals that have developed recently, over the past few years, show that the act of taking up sexual matters and sending it between individuals is much more common than people had thought of in advance of a decade or two, with much shyness. People may assume that this is less rare than it really is. That's why I'm worried that if 210. gr. is in this art that gives it a fishing warrant for a large crowd of people. As mentioned earlier, there are many ways to communicate online. One of these ways to transport information online has so-called torrent pathways. This allows for example the IP numbers of those who communicate. In this approach to obtaining material, I'm assuming that there are individuals who make it as if they're using all the other ways to get it, an IP number can be seen in those who communicate. Then you wonder what happens. If anyone thinks of looking up those IP numbers and seeing which one of them is Icelandic, they're in, according to the bill that I see best, certain authority to listen, that's at least what you're worried about. Perhaps there is some legal thing on a journey that prevents it or some other defenceist in whom I actually do not have much faith in that way, at least not in any government. If any government came to which it was really intended to eliminate pornography from the Icelandic community, I fear it would be abused. I say abuse because I don't think that it's the State's job to eliminate pornography in society, it's just not the role of it in my opinion. In a report, the wording of children's pornography, which I prefer to support, unfortunately, suggests that it is not merely a case of legitimate pornography, such as the prohibition against child pornography or snout, but of public pornography, which is forbidden to be above the head and, in my opinion, is still less inclined to listen to people to avoid distribution. But it remains that perhaps this would be the best. Actually, it would be the best thing to do if 210. would, in effect, be infatuated against nudity porn. That's the fate I'd like to see in the bill of the Honorable Council of Bjart, the future of Mr. Blossom porn, to 210. as it stands now, there would be an exchange for beneficial prohibitions, such as bans against stumbling. This is what I have to look at, these are just a few letters in the whole bill. But the bill as a whole, seen from this point, is, in my opinion, a very important and positive step. It provides more support and an increased rights protection for those who are being listened to by the authorities or by the telephone or what they want to call it, but it is very important to know why or how it is justified to have 210. In there. Also, I have to go over the number of years each incarcerated by law, but as already noted in the bill, the President's permission is directed toward a series of offenses that may be imposed on the law of six years in prison and on public interest or personal interest. The current law requires a minimum of eight years of imprisonment or a state of public interest or personal interest. Rather, it has opened a wide door to allow phone noises to be given to the occasion that I consider all too much and that it shows itself best, I think, in the numbers that appeared in response to my inquiry earlier during this term as well as at that time. A senator and his current highest. Secretary of the economy, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. But in both answers, it was very clear that the shutters are -- you can really say they're just approved. 99.31% of them were accepted when I asked for a public inquiry. Minister of the inside, and this is much higher than normal. Obviously, a pot is broken into that system. I think there's more. I don't think that problem is for one reason or another. I also think that a certain mental attitude exists where it seems normal to men than it is, they think it's less intervention than it really is. I think it's part of it. Of course, this can be corrected only by having the box very clear. This is where he's being explained. It's being squeezed. I think it's very important, and I like it very much. There is no question that I would be able to support this matter wholeheartedly and have helped to contribute to it, except for that list of 210. gr. Which makes me doubt. But as I say, we're in 1st. Now. The committee will discuss the matter and perhaps not quite time to make up their minds at this point, but, of course, everything else is very important to the bill. I just want to go over one thing that I feel is missing on the bill, about 80. ... intheSecondSecondSecurities of criminal Affairs. I guess I just need to explain to the audience what I mean. For 80th. They discuss how telecommunication companies can provide information about telephones or other communications with specific phones, computers, and communication devices. This is what is sometimes called methadat in the everyday affairs of life. Metadata, or data as they are sometimes referred to in Icelandic and I'll call it from now on, is not material that people send between them, but information about the material, such as destination, location, timing, duration of communication, IP numbers, phone numbers, and the like. Of course, such data are not as fragile as the matter itself. It's not the same as seeing who was calling and listening to the phone call itself. There are two different types of intervention. But still, I think it's time to look up IP numbers and phone numbers, and that's an intervention. That's what you call each other. If you see a person's phone number that you know who is, it'll tell you things about people's personal life. It applies on the Internet, just like when it comes to phones. When you look up IP numbers, you can see all kinds of things there, about which websites you visit, even who are in contact, and even if you can't see what kind of material you are in together. It is, in my opinion, a very important intervention. This is a debate and reasoning that is taking place today in many parts of the world and became, I think, first for the real time, after Edward Snowdens's greatest informants, was taken very seriously by the public. As a direct result, I'd say that the emphasis on making that case a great deal worse. This is of great importance in the 21st century, for we live in a world in which we cannot control everything here at the high Council what will happen to people's rights. So the technology is taking it out of our hands a little bit. Then it is imperative that we have a clear understanding of how we're going to arrange government authorities and restrictions to protect the rights of our citizens, such as privacy, into the 21st century with ever - changing technologies, and increasingly more data in the everyday lives of people, their personal lives, their work life, and everything that is on the Internet or some computer and that has to do with such things as this. What I would suggest in the bill is simply that the limit would be extended to 83rd. The law, that it would be extended to apply also to the so-called data so that it would also need to be investigated as to the violations that may be imposed on six years of imprisonment and that public interest or personal interest would require it. I think that change would be simple. I think it'd be good. Actually, I think she'd probably be controversial. I know that for sure, some of them are. Senators disagree with me, but I still think it's good. At least I think so. paritaprevir Hermies, Níelsson's son, agree with me. [[The president calls.]] It always helps me to reason on my issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u76	Madam President. Hv. A senator has studied this matter very carefully. There's not much I don't agree with him. He said that it was not the State's job to handle the banning of pornography. Just so I'm totally on my feet. Yet, a senator believes that it is the State's job to forbid child pornography. So the following is the case. A senator feels that way. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is: Does he not feel that there is a need for further research, such as those that I feel are in this bill and do not disagree with them, that in some way the guardians are also being guarded, to refer to an old doctrine from the Roman Court of ancient times? We have often discussed the ways in which those who receive authority to watch others. This discussion has been conducted during this conference and in many other meetings of neighboring countries. I have felt that the most desirable way to keep this surveillance is by some means to arrange for members of the Parliament, possibly a General Committee or a Special Parliamentary Committee, to play a special role. We have many historical examples that such sources have been abused for political purposes. It cannot be excluded that such things will come back again. Then the legal system must be kept in check. What does it say? A senator that in some way will be adopted that the council came through one of its committees or in other ways by monitoring these sources? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u77	A respectable president. One thing that happens over and over when you discuss pornography is that you already ask yourself, " Do I not really favor the prohibition on child pornography? ' I thought I was completely clear in my speech about it. Of course, children's pornography should be banned and, of course, should be banned. I think it was perfectly clear. If not clear, let it be clear now and be removed. It is also a case of child abuse. There is a violation of the rights to individuals. This is simply not the case when people spread pornography, and the distribution is legitimate in view of the rights of those who engage in pornography. Of course, this is never the case with the rights of pornography. That's never the case. That is why it should, of course, be banned. I hope it's perfectly clear. As I also said in my speech, it's a-joints and b-joints 210. gr. a law of law against child pornography. True, there is a paragraph in 210. which includes, for the management of a- and b-joints 210. gr. mainly that substance. Of course, when it comes to guarding the guard, we need to guard the guard somehow. In fact, in Plers, we proposed a Synod resolution proposal on September 11, 2015, for independent police surveillance. The bill will be discussed below. Minister of state, I believe, is a great improvement in a class of languages that is greatly inferior to me. It won't go as far as I'd like, but we'll talk about it better afterwards. But the answer is simply: Yes, citizens must be monitored.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u78	Madam President. Wait a minute. A senator apologizes that I have allowed myself to ask him to answer a simple question. My observation may not have been clear enough under the circumstances. Senator, at least I could trace a chapter out of it. But I just wanted to make sure that I understood correctly, that I wasn't trying to break my leg or hit him in any way. And for my sake, he can be as frustrated as he wants to be by simple questions. I just thought it was the right thing to do. I was not completely clear about the conclusion when he gave his talk on how he felt about such pornography and child pornography. I'd like to take this opportunity because we have a discussion after the bill, which includes... is being discussed with those who carry out research, such as the phone taps. It is my position, and have been, that the council should oversee those who are doing this work. To that end, I fully agree with various previous legal advisers, such as. Björn Bjarnason. We had this very helpful discussion at the time. Then it was found that people had grossly abused sources of listening and the demand for political purposes. Would it now be a delight for the candidate to give this remarkable discourse, which was the cause of an extracurricular discourse here at the Great General Assembly? In this, I also refer to Professor Þór Whiteheadur's black articles. It is vital that we remain alert to this danger. That is because I thought it would be right for me to make that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u79	A respectable president. I beg pardon if my irritability has taken hold of my temper. Senator. I hope that it is not, and then I thank him on the way to explain my position more clearly, for it is important that it be clear. No matter how clear my speech was here, it's something you don't want to misunderstanding about. But I have to keep it in mind that I have felt as if I had one of the problems I had with discussing pornography in general, not just here, but in writing or in dealing with people, it's always hard to keep the focus on pornography. Why is there a porn ban? Not child pornography, not snout porn, no offense, just pornography; pornography in which there is an informed consent for conduct, and no rights to be violated? [[Up front.]] That is a simple question, and it has been answered. That's all there is to go about. Of course, in the case of the surveillance role, I would like to receive the approved Congress resolution proposed by the piranha, but otherwise I choose the bill of the Minister of the Interior, who I think is certainly better than what is now. I'll get more involved in that when that's going to be discussed. I see no quick reason for having a Senate committee, at least not in the observation as the Supreme Committee. The Minister of the Interior Minister suggest or the agency that Piratar suggest would carry it out. There may be some reasons, but I don't see them, at least not quickly, for it is an object that is rather easy to set a frame about if there is a political wish. But I think it's pretty easy to put a frame on what kind of police practice is. That's a lot of police experience. There are rules. There are precedents. There's a good and rich discussion about it all, so I'm not a reason for political approach. But it is also my understanding that this is part of a role. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u80	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill with regard to the conditions for telephone taping. I think this case is a whole lot better than the law's doing today. As we have seen, the telecommunication of the system of justice, as it is today, appears, is that in 99.9% of the cases when police apply to the phone taps, they are authorized by a judge. It is especially good for this to be both a public interest and a personal interest, and a violation of six years of imprisonment. I think it's very good, and I think it'll explain very much to what phone calls need. Also, I will be glad that a lawyer will be appointed for a hearing, for there is one thing that has been criticized for the one - sided decision of the decision. No one is guarding the case of the person who should be listening, so it is very important that the attorney be appointed to make sure that the voice of the tolerated wire is heard in court. What I would like to talk to you about is what you'd like to talk about. Tenth. Smoke. N., Helgi. Hrafn, son of Gunnarsson, tore before, which is why 210. gr. is being held in. I can see why she should have been inside when this case was first proposed to Congress 141, but I believe it's time to keep her in today's porn ban 210. today, as it is, it does not reflect, and it does not have the power to the highest. Minister wants to mean. As shown in my opponent at the highest. The local minister was the reason why this article was inside being able to observe organized crime. However, the reality is that 210. has not been used in the pursuit of organized crime, since 210 gr. is really a question of censorship. It's an editorial from the old school, as it were, that is an old 19th century law, and I recall that it first appeared in 1869, and it went through with reasonableness when the two later Jewish penalties, no. 19/190, were accepted at the time. 210. g. That sounds like this, actually, I don't have it all, unfortunately, but the main grip that has been taking place for over 150 years is this, by permission of the president: If pornography appears in print, the person responsible for publishing it by means of the printing laws, the guiltys, or the prisons should be brought up to 6 months. The same punishment is for creating or moving in for distribution, selling, dispensing, or other forms of pornography, pornography, or other such things, or by making them public, as well as by providing public lectures, or a game that is immoral in the same way. This article does not address organized crime. I understand the effort of having the article on the bill, but really it doesn't create the problems we're dealing with. The problem we are dealing with today when it comes to pornography is that pornography is everywhere, unfortunately, for some people. We can fully discuss how this can affect society, but like 210. gr. is today, it works, for example. Not on snoop porn. Dishonesty is a serious social problem, since its victims have no tools in their hands but 209. Article 239 of a shameful behavior, and the case of a fraction of which is a fraction of shame. g., that I don't remember exactly what's going on, I think about it. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's armor can probably tell us about it, but I remember her number. What matters is that this subject of pornography has been used only a few times in court. It has been used to fine people, or put them in prison, mainly to fine, and the first time the law was used when people were reported to distribute their posters to Obscurials in 1975, which is a very important case and went all the way to the Supreme Court. There and later, in the 1980's, this law was tested three times in the Supreme Court. It was all a question about video stores and whether they could rent out pornographic images or so - called blue movies that showed people sexual practices. The problem with the Icelandic law of pornography is that there is no definition of what pornography is. People have thought, okay, pornography is a matter of choice, but the point is that what pornography has always been different over the years. It's something we historians like to predict, e.g. what was pornography in 1869. Was it a Bossaga? Yes, Bosa story was pornography, but it may also have been pornography if a woman's leg was observed too much. Just seeing the upper arms, it was pornography. So our ideas about pornography are as changing as time really is. That's exactly what we see today, we're trying to create a community, or there's new movements in the porn industry where we try to create a so-called trave forms, where we're trying to make sure there's no industrial abuse. This is where the industry itself is trying to prevent organized crime. So we see certain developments there. But as I said, there is no definition of porn in 210rd. That's why, in fact, I think it's extremely dangerous to keep it inside the phone taps because the purpose of the shutters is naturally to try to expose some spectacular offense. Is it possible that the law will be used to imprison people for the use of pornography? Do we not want pornography to be involved? Or spread pornography? If someone takes off a so - called self - image or a tippane and sends Tinder or Snapchat over the phone or we monitor it, will this mean that the person could be punished? We're talking about the porn article as it is today being sullied by the 21st century society in which we live, which makes me very careful that it stays inside a bill to correct the terms of phone taping. Pornography was first defined by a so - called projection, but the constellations were light - blue erotic images displayed at Station 2 in 1990; I think 1991. There a high court judge quotes the definition of UNESCO as to what pornography is. UNESCO, however, may have no definition of pornography. UNESCO held a 1986 meeting where there were about 25 women who participated, and this definition includes those women. ... untilthisreward. There are many meetings about women's rights and so on, UNESCO thought one of those meetings, and came in. This definition is presented. She's not officially UNESCO. Much of this definition is defective, and it is exactly what the Norwegian learned, but it had a very similar definition in its 1985 law. But the problem is that in this definition, pornography is essentially violence. Yeah, we can talk about it from that, but I don't think we can make porn where there's no victim. We can write pornography, and then we can draw pornography, and there is no victim, so I don't see how it can be violent. However, it is referring to pornography as something small, showing women in a sexually questionable way, and then to some greater interpretation of it. What's very interesting about this definition is that it is relatively consistent with the definition set by the Norwegian State in its pornographic legislation in 1985. However, in 2004 the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that there was absolutely nothing in the pornography that was to be judged as demeaning, which could be a form of oppression that could show violence. As a result, the definition fell apart. When we're going to allow the telethon and build it on 210. Look, what are we really allowing? This is the problem. I understand the will. I understand that we want to try to resist organized crime. I understand we're trying to protect women and children. 210. g. is not about child pornography, for it came. paritaprevir Therefore, the jealous son of Jónasson during his ministerial period to divide it into 210 gr. a 210. g. b. I'm counting to 210. if a child is a child of his time. I believe that our morals and ideas of freedom of expression and sexual freedom of each individual have made a great change in the fact that we need to revise this article so that it will reflect it if we have some kind of organized crime that uses this sort of sexual crime, in fact, in the form of sexual immorality, e.g. by video, audio, or video, and if not corrected. Snuggly porn would then remember, for example. you fall under it, and it's very important to deal with it. However, there is another discussion. I hope I've got to swerve the reason why 210. gr. is defective and will not achieve the ultimate purpose. The Minister of the Interior wants her on the bill. I believe that it will create a legal uncertainty when it comes to when it may use 210 grams. that they might listen to people, what pornography they watch. Then, naturally, we must introduce a person's sexual senses and sexual feelings. We must admit that not all pornography is the same. We need to consider keeping the individual's sexual freedom in mind when we're making such a thing. I think it's very important that this comment of mine be taken into consideration at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I hope to the highest. Minister of state will also clean up and possibly revise 210 gr. and change it to reflect what we want it to reflect, because now she does not. If she did, she could stay inside. But as it is today, it is blunt, has not been used, or has been used entirely random, and so forth. If I recall correctly, it was because of the joy march last reported to the police authorities on the basis of 210 gr. and that case was dismissed. To 210. gr. may be inside needing to change it, or it will not be able to keep it on the bill as it stands today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u81	Madam President. During the earlier discussion, I realized my position on these matters. As soon as I believe that the bill of the sort of bill under the discussion should be approved, I believe that it is necessary to have a democratic check on the implementation of the surveillance authority given by the General Assembly. It was shown, in the talk of one of the first speakers under this case, that it was a matter taken into consideration on the bill discussed below regarding police surveillance, which is on the program later. That bill seems to me in a number of articles, even that basic material, is somewhat the same as Porta's interpretation proposal from a couple of years ago. I participated in that discussion with my uncle, why. paritaprevir Þórisson Jón Thorrisson, who did not leave the knife between us on the stand there. I remember asking them the finest senator, tallest member of Congress, and Iceland's police officer today if he would not agree with me about the need for a democratic surveillance of various police duties. He totally agreed with me on that. When I read the bill that is discussed below, there is nowhere to be seen, except perhaps by a good interpretation of the 5th sector. that refer to the role of the surveillance committee but only if it takes into account itself to request specific information from the local prosecutor or others. It can also be said that in this bill there is a measure of protection to those who are listening to the authority's obligatoryness, the bill becomes a law, to inform the person subject to such a violation of personal freedom of it within a period of time. It may be felt that this is the case when a problem arises. I don't think so. I think we need to watch the story in this case and it's not very elegant. We have seen that despite the protection of the Constitution, 71 C.E. gr., giving these to men, the police have literally followed men, and they have intercepted the telephones of men who have been sitting here at the National Assembly of Iceland, men who have guided political language and who have been directors of the labor movement. At that point, the former president of the legal society may reason: " Well, it was during the Cold War, and then there was a violent political conflict. They were my party brothers, not from the Allied Union, but from the Allied Party, which was the president of the Allied Union of Iceland, which was here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders; men were tapped in strikes. I believe that there is no need for anyone who is elected by the nation to sit here on the legislation to be tapped by those who may be political opposers. It must never happen. That's why I believe that some kind of surveillance needs to be done; we can call it democratic surveillance. I've talked about the possibility that there are some who are on the General Assembly committee who have this role. There are various ways to do this. At one time, such ideas were ripped off by the then minister of justice, Björn Bjarnason. I was on a committee that prepared bills that never came true. It thus suggested that, for example, the Portuguese example of such democracies would be followed by two representatives of government opposers and one from the government having full authority to enter the police agencies that have such control and demand all the information they want. I believe that such surveillance is urgent if we are to be sure that this source will never be used for an unnatural political purpose. Today, people can say that our time is the situation, so it is far too unlikely, perhaps in theory, to rule out ever - to - be. But the government must always think of things that are impossible. Times can change. Political conditions in Iceland can change completely. I'm not referring this to any political party. We simply need to ensure that in the future there will be sources that we give the police to keep watch on criminals for political purposes. History teaches us that such sources have been abused by the executive authority to monitor political opposers. It can't happen again. I also believe that once such supervision is established, it is possible to go further in providing such information. I'm not against anything as long as it is absolutely certain that they will never be abused. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister - she will consider whether she answers in this discussion or in the discussion of the bill on the change in police law as discussed below - her explanation of how the bill under this program and the second bill will answer these questions; but one little bit. A senator earlier said that this is the answer. I don't see that there's a very clear bill in the bill we're discussing below, and there's absolutely nothing about it in this bill. This is a key point.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u82	A respectable president. I'm impressed. A senator enters a bit of an interesting point, which is whether the monitoring of the Rapporteur is political or nonpolitical. Now that we were just going through this thing earlier, I stated that I would not quickly see the political surveillance of that kind, i.e. More than already a part of the role of a dog. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. Hv. A senator reviewed the story and the fact that men have been tapped for political purposes, and I would like to hear more about it whether or not. A senator is sure that such a political event would prevent such conduct. For example, I wondered if circumstances in the community were in the way that a certain group of people would be maligned by all political groups, including governmental opposition. I ask because, as I briefly crossed the river, I would have thought that this monitoring would be the best course so that it would be in a very clear frame, which would not be according to political standards - except in the sense that all people are in some way with their political views, there can never be entirely removed from it. I would have thought there would have to be a frame that would then be like a box that would break out if things went out and happened. I'd think it would be best to have a formal process like what is suggested here, independent police surveillance or whatever it would be done exactly. That would have to be formal. If there were personnel missing an operation, I would have thought that it would be less likely that phone taping could be abused for political purposes than for direct political attention. I ask with an open mind because I find it interesting. A senator will bring this up, and he will have good reason to consider this better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u83	Madam President. I look at the story and see that this source has been abused for political purposes because the law and the rules were not clear enough. I'm not going to abuse these sources now, but we have to think that this could happen. In order to prevent political abuse of such sources, I suggest that by ensuring that people from both sides of the political world will have access to such supervision, at least not to be viewed by those in the General Assembly. But, hey. However, a senator points out that there are groups that do not represent the International Assembly of Iceland that may be unkind and therefore may be available to all to allow surveillance. I doubt that such a situation will arise. If members of Congress are in charge, I think that for the patrol work, they will be selected by the council that is considered, by experience, to deny any doubt in these matters. I believe such senators would also remember to make sure that the rights of these groups that should not be represented here were properly held. Therefore, I believe that the coming of the council is a preferred event rather than a special institution. At one time, for example, it was discussed with a certain number of members of the General Assembly Committee, even the heads of Congress; it was an idea that was tore at that time when I, however, was. Senators Ögmundur Jónasson, Björn Bjarnason, and others came to this matter. It reminds me that in the bill rules of the day, it was discussed that members of Congress were doing this. This is needed, but it does not occur in Porta's synopsis proposal from two years ago or in the early projections here. [[The president calls.]] But this is an important part of police surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u84	A respectable president. I must admit that I am a little afraid of having a political approach to something that basically means being part of the other part of the power. Without saying anything like that, I'll think about what it would be like if a political event or surveillance were on the right of men. I think it's basically a matter of city rights protection. I would have thought it was rather the role of the courts and related persons or of an independent institution, or whatever it is implemented precisely, rather than the actual elected representatives. It's the same reason why I think it's important for Congress not to judge people because it leads to a wide range of suspicions and politics that have no place in it but only the question of individual rights and how they are best of loyalty. I am absolutely convinced that it should not be a political event. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would want this to be at least both, that this surveillance was stratified; on the one hand it was an institution or committee, such as the highest level. The Minister of the Interior Council suggests, or an independent agency or emissary of the Generals. I ask, regardless of how methodical it would be, is it not better to have such a check also than to have only political surveillance? I'd be very scared if only political surveillance were to be discussed because as soon as the politics are involved, people are asking all kinds of questions and can go very far beyond the box. When it comes to the city's rights, I don't want to go far beyond the box or, actually, nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u85	Madam President. What a contrast there is between judging and observing the implementation of law and order! But I'm not the Supreme Court in these matters, it's just my opinion. In this case, with the permission of the President, we have the...chcks and the blances, or change the power, it is very convenient in this case that it is exactly the opposing arms of the politics that would be involved. Then they monitor each other. But I don't mind any approach. A senator is in. Maybe it's just a very fancy approach, that two-shaped approach as a matter of course. A senator tore up here; I have nothing against her, and she knows the best way. I look at the experiences of other nations. There's been a lot of discussion about this, quite a lot of discussion, in our neighboring countries, and indeed throughout Europe. Of course, they became the most important after the Cold War ended when it became evident that in many countries large wiretaps had been in the history of various governments, both of the right wing and of the left wing, in various lands. For example, I mention that in Norway my political associates, the Worker Party, represented the massive wiretaps. Here it was the Independence Party, which represented a much-improved memory of the shutters. That's the way it was. We need to learn from this experience. I don't really care what our methods are. I just think there needs some kind of democratic surveillance on this project. To me, democratic supervision involves the representatives of the people chosen by the nation. I want the council to do something about this, but I don't mind the approach. A senator tore up here earlier. I know his ideas from Porta's synopsis arrangement, but as good as that suggestion was, she did not answer this issue, as I tore here at the time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u86	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of police law, police surveillance. The bill suggests the establishment of a three-man administration board that supervises police activities and that at the office of the State Marshal, internal surveillance of police activities will be carried out. The objective of the bill is that a citizen who believes that an officer of the police has violated his rights can be confident that his case will be resolved appropriately. Then it is also the goal of the bill to consider that the rights of law enforcement officers end up in the goods of the police to set clear rules for monitoring her activities. It is important to ensure that procedures in which citizens are guided by efficiency, transparency, and introductions. V.E.G. President. The bill rests on the careful work of a committee on the treatment of complaints and charges against police that returned in October last year. The Commission's orders were attributed to the granting of WHO and state attorneys on the need for increasing urban resources to pronounce complaints about relations with the police, as well as in those situations where complaint is not directed toward the supposed criminal conduct of police officers. The committee was assigned to evaluate existing systems and laws and make proposals for adjustment and adjustment. Police surveillance is generally three-way. First, it is the internal surveillance of the police themselves by performing police work that is in the hands of the state police officers and police officers, second, the treatment of criminal conduct at work by a police officer and third, the treatment of complaint against the police by professional action. The current police law tells us how to handle police charges for the purpose of a criminal offense in action, but there are no specific rules directly stated on handling police complaints because of the individual activities or practices of the police in general. Thus, because of the police work, there is not a complete channel for charges and complaints against the police. There is no overall rule on the treatment of such cases, and as an information source to the general public on how to address the charges and complaints, there is a limited amount of information available to the public. One of the objectives of this bill is to remedy the defect. V.E.G. President. As mentioned earlier, the bill is largely based on proposals made by committees on the treatment of complaint and police charges, but the main committee was about to be established, as discussed only in the previous three-man administration committees that monitor police work. In addition to the proposal by the Committee to follow the governor's motion, after a general consultation with the State Department's Office, the local police's internal surveillance of police activities that will be conducted in the office of the State Marshal. So this bill suggests that the minister of a three - man administrative committee, a police patrol committee, who has the responsibility to receive trouble from the citizens, transfer them, and determine if there is a charge of criminal conduct or complaint in the police professions. The committee comes up with an appropriate approach, whether at the local district attorney or district attorney, the relevant police officer, or the governor. These institutions are also to be announced to the Commission on charges and complaints received directly from the citizens and to the Commission on their status. This will ensure that the information provided by the citizen will be taken into account in an appropriate consideration and treatment. The committee will also have the responsibility to consider matters when a person is killed or suffered extreme physical harm by police actions or police procedures or while the individual was under their care. It should be taken into consideration for these matters, regardless of whether a guilty offense is suspected. At the same time, the committee may take a procedure or an incident to consider that it is a cause for it. It is not expected that the committee will directly participate in the treatment of a case that it provides, however, it can express comments on the case and if indicated, the outcome of the case. The Committee will appoint three members, one nominees of the Iceland Police Association, another of the Iceland Human Rights Office, the third to be appointed by the Minister of Ministers of the Interior, who will also be chairman of the Committee. Second, the bill suggests that internal Affairs should be undertaken by the State Marshal in order to improve the quality of law enforcement and police court treatments. The agency already has a certain surveillance role in the internal work of the police, but the proposal presented here is intended to establish this role. The Federal Marshal's Internal Affairs is not intended to influence the government of a police officer who is running a police force, each in his own territory. Internal monitoring includes The review of information in police databases, field surveillance, monitoring that law and procedures are being followed along with other measures that are falling to the target under law. V.E.G. President. So now it's time to discuss whether this bill is going long enough, whether it's the first step, or if it's not to submit a bill of the kind suggested here. I'd like to be sincere with the fact that I've personally been very concerned about whether there might be a bigger step to take and more intensive police surveillance. For this purpose, after the committee returned, a seminar was given on the exact subject where the members of this designated committee discussed matters, including police officers and other members, to review these ideas and to set the matter up. I believe that there will no longer be a step forward. I'd like to share my opinion with the House of Congress that it has taken us too long to take progressive steps in view of the police'normal surveillance, but let's be careful that there's something they can find to be good for themselves. My thoughts on this matter may not be so far away from those thinkers as far as possible. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Ophphphénsson discussed earlier, and most important, those with these cases have felt that, in some cases, it is right to add police research clearances. My opinion is that it is impossible to take such a step without man's initial exposure to such monitoring, i.e. before you come up with any ideas. It should now be noted that this has been discussed in the Assembly Hall many times before. Useful committees have been set up, e.g. of that particular matter. In all that work, the red cord has been that as soon as the Allied Council gives rich sources to those entrusted to them, it is not unusual that the Council itself can somehow keep the authority it has given. The interaction between the legislature and the European Commission is a significant challenge. It should also be noted that when this work was going on - I think the committee I'm thinking about right now, about the research warrants, was set up for up to three terms - we had not changed here the order of the II Parliament committees, but in that case were considering the old course. The full committee. Here it is that by means of the Allied itself involved in this matter, representing the nation's ability to control power, it is also being taken care not only to have a more administrative issue at an appointed time but to be involved in this matter of personal rights and other things, while it is important to study interests that it should change the agreement that it is safe to provide such permission. The board of directors and surveillance committee has now been set up. It is to some extent similar to other committees. I've had my own experience with being on a board of administration and monitoring committee and she's got some other work to do with her own. Of course, she is still flexing and being molded. She has, for example. The task of reviewing all the reports that come from a government accountant is a major part of the program. There's a lot of other stuff she's doing around. I think, over time, it's going to be the way she's doing her job. In this committee, it is of utmost importance that members of the Parliament consider their normal political conflicts that are normal in the work of the Parliament, while some of the other demands are laid upon men on that committee because they have, to my mind, a considerable speciality. In that respect I feel that there's a lot to think about, and it's actually a significant way that a administrative committee and a surveillance committee might play a significant role in considering that democratic surveillance of certain activities is involved. On the other hand, I think, and I'd like to reiterate, that this discussion must be resolved by everyone before anyone then comes up with ideas or sources unless it can be done in one way that, of course, a matter cannot be excluded. I still feel that we are taking steps in this discussion. We always need to be careful that we are in some strange territory in this respect when we think about the specific procedure and then the role of the Council, but we should not forget that here we are talking about things that are involved on the basis of the legal state itself. It is not unnatural in my opinion to try to build a bridge for the council at that time. A respectable president. My opinion is that to make wise suggestions like this, I come to that end. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson called out, we need a considerable more time to prepare the case, deeper discussion in society, that humans simply manage the pros and cons of the journey. I reiterate that I strongly believe that there are no steps you can take to increase police surveillance. That's why I'm here suggesting that this bill is the first step in making further changes. I wish that the Council of the Future would succeed in doing so and increase the monitoring of the police. I don't think it's unwise for us this time to test the activity of this bill, test the concept and motion of a administrative committee, and see how it works, but at the same time, how we can take bigger steps on the lines I've tore up. Then I may even discuss what we've been shy about discussing, just how far we can go to provide additional research clearances. There's always an outer limit on it. This is what I want to be presented in this discussion. In the end, my assessment was that it would not be necessary to wait any longer on this matter, that would be worth using the time and moving on with it. It will now be treatment at the council. I wish that the board would discuss quite a bit openly the purpose of such a bill. Just like the measures we were discussing earlier, about the phone barns, these points need to be viewed very narrowly. There is no reason to fear that there is a clear, well - monitored view of the work involved because it does nothing more than increase the credibility of those who work in these systems. I am convinced that those who have such sensitive sources want to do the delicate work done by police officers and police authorities. Now that I have explained the main points of this bill and at the same time let these thoughts be followed, which I feel is important on my part, I suggest that the case be referred to why. General and educational committees for the proper treatment and treatment of 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u87	Mr. President. To be honest, I was a little sad toward the end of that talk, which in many respects was quite excellent at the highest. Minister. I couldn't help overhearing the minister's irrefutable arguments about the need for follow-up. The only difference between my case and her was that she was able to set her case in a much higher way than she stopped me. She understands this matter better than I do. She realizes that this is the most delicate part of the legal realm. We are giving the police a lot of authority to study our lives and, if necessary, violate what we consider as a normal immunity. V.E.G. According to a minister, she believes that, in addition to that transfer of power, there should also be increased demand for democratic surveillance on the treatment of authority. Mr. Faithful, I couldn't say it poeticly, but I couldn't. Minister will. The landing, however, was quite different. She stuck a bottle in my mouth and said we should check it out. It's the best. The Minister of the Interior Church says that any reasoning that is presented is possible, and then he says: "The matter has not been discussed, let's take a closer look? We've been over this for a decade or more. We have all agreed that these increased sources require democratic surveillance, and this is why they need them. I'm in the opinion that it needs additional research. I also believe, unfortunately, that bad health will develop in a way that requires it. That's why I think we should prepare ourselves for it by making it as the highest level. The minister declared it so well, that a management and surveillance committee would receive e.g. any role in these substances. But I can't say I agree with the highest. Ministers that it is now necessary to take this step without the other step being taken. [[The president calls.]] I'm not ready to lend my support at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u88	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. A senator that this matter has been discussed from time to time in the past few years. I have to make it clear that during this terms, a case of the nature of the situation has not been won. A senator is here. First of all, it has been discussed whether there is a need to take steps to increase the surveillance of the police. When the committee completes its work, I want to say so, and I would love to. A senator believes that the suggestions presented here are a very good answer. The question we are discussing is whether to take the step up and bring a democratic approach to this matter. This is not the case this time. Hv. A senator is not happy that I should say that I want to look into the matter. I'd like to allow myself to say what I think is a complaint, that the Minister here is expecting nothing to be minister of all this year as we know the House of Congress, and I don't want to promise it, at least Not in my sleeve, that this bill of this pull will be ready in time before this council goes home. Do I feel that it is important to do so? Do I consider taking steps in this regard? Do I want to have that conversation with the committee? Yes, that's why we got into a special seminar. Therefore, to discuss this matter, I specifically met the chairman of the Board of Directors and Commission. The minister here feels the same way. A senator, that it is reasonable for the council to have access to this matter. I'm really sorry about that. 4th, including n.. I feel sad about this case, but there it is. It doesn't change my firm opinion that it needs to go any further, but I've never heard it hurt to take one step at a time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u89	The president's sorry too if you had trouble. 4th, including Smoke. Behold, it is sad, but he gets the word, and gives an answer a second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u90	Mr. President. I've been up to these issues for almost decades. My position has been completely clear in these subjects. Many justice ministers have given me the assurance that when they finally set out on this matter, democratic surveillance would be expected. When the Minister of Justice finally arrives, which understands the matter much better than I do, and reaches a point far more clearly than I am, which is among the members of Congress who have thought this far, I am reviewing the conclusion that it should not be established. We look to it as one of the saddest chapters in the republic's history that political espionages were practiced. They were not extensive, but they were practiced. They were practiced by former generals, editors of a magazine I once editor, head of the labor movement, President of ASI - and it can never happen again. On this point, all of us have agreed. In the same way, the community is predictable to evolve, so we may need more research clearance. I agree with the highest. A minister that they can be given only by this democratic supervision. Now it just so happens we're at the highest. Ministers agree on the core of the matter, but the highest. According to Minister, there is no time left for Congress to present a new bill. How about the European Commission and the legislatures working together in this regard? What if the Committee that gets this done will consider that the bill will be changed, e.g. To the being of the highest. A minister rightly suggest that, in some way, the role of a management and surveillance committee will serve to provide someone from it to care for the confidentiality of such surveillance? There are a number of examples in Western Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u91	V.E.G. President. I think that in my speech earlier, I mentioned the need for these matters to be discussed before the council. They'd have to take the discussion, but I'm bored with that expression, but they'd need to be discussed from all sides, taking into account its advantages and weaknesses. That's what Congress is capable of. The fine art of this matter is a deeper than we can do in the short term at the council today, discussing how people would like to make such an ongoing case. I think it's important to stress that, with the development of a management and monitoring committee, there is another opportunity to take this matter on. I think they can be well developed in the direction of providing this surveillance. When a full - time committee treats this case, I would like it to wonder how it could continue to improve the surveillance process. I've liked it when the committee committees express their opinions to the Commission. For this, the game is made, and the Allied must be heard loudly. I also think it's interesting for those on the board of administration and monitoring committee to wonder if the Committee can handle this kind of project. I think there is good reason to go over it thoroughly and to reiterate what I've said, that in order to continue developing law enforcement tests, which I think are absolutely right that is developing, men need to be prepared with the box so they don't go too far.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u92	A respectable president. We'll talk to a bill at the highest. The local secretary of police surveillance, a group of lawsuits that have been present and that have long been very interested in, while we proposed a judicial hearing proposal twice to establish a special agency or a special office to carry out the role of managing police duties and procedures. There's a need, I dare say. Of course, this bill doesn't go as far as we pyramids want to go, we want to go much further, and we want to take much bigger steps. However, it must be told this bill for disaster that one of the problems that arise in the discussion of our fine Senate proposals is that one of the main criticisms of the Congress resolution and the idea of taking the big step is a lack of statistics that demonstrate the need to monitor the police matters, the complaints and the police professions. It's something the bill comes to fix. This may be a step towards the next step. I sure hope so. I think it's important to keep the difference between the complaints and the charges. Likewise, what might be of concern, or what to call a person, or some job or practice that is worth complaining about and reacting in some way and in some way or in the other way. Policemen, as I did in a talk on a different subject earlier, have rules and, under certain circumstances, authority to use physical power. This includes overwhelming power. Hence, it is vital that this is one of the most important subjects in the world. By the way, first what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Essechénsson said, in English, he liked to know that I've always translated it as a barrier and suggest it as a translation when it is wanted to be used by a good and important concept. The behavior of someone who has power over others can have a very rich effect on someone who is in the power without a criminal offense. For example: A control of information can be a large power tool. Information can be abused without breaking any law. Words can be spoken in a way that is misleading or that causes a conflicting understanding without breaking any law, even without being directly lied. True claims can be misled. That's totally possible, depending on the context and the setting of such things and all that. One thing I hear so much about is the problem that individuals are somehow convinced of something that doesn't quite stand up for individual policemen. It is something that is very difficult to impose some direct punishment, which is not necessarily needed in itself. But a complaint has to be made. There must be someone other than the police who looks at their complaint and places some kind of evaluation on it, at least where they live. Also, there is statistics and evidence so that the extent of the problem and its nature can be identified, and then of course whether he is there to begin with, because the nature of the case is often in the hands of the police, because police are forced to interfere with authorities who do not seem to benefit from police intervention. The government's system, especially the police itself, is also in danger of responding by the view that this is a bad case, someone who had something to do with his conscience, and who responded by blaming the police for the things he was teaching himself. That's the only way to live, and there certainly are police force at times. But then again, police officers, being human and gentle, often make mistakes without meaning of it, often without realizing it, and sometimes because they feel compelled to do so, and probably in some very rare case, because they're just evil, they're people. It doesn't matter. What matters is that there are ways, formal ways to deal with it. Today, in the case of the complaint, they're not really working, I mean. When you read about the case, you will find that the statistics on the complaint, not on charges, but on complaints, are poor, so as not to say, since they are usually treated at the scene, as they say, very informative words, or that they are not formally listed. They only exist in the fabric of some individuals who work for the police. The bill is about to fix this, I think, to a considerable extent, doesn't go as far as I would like to, but it puts any of these things in some clear form that can at least be used to identify the problems, see perhaps some patterns in what behaviour it is that people complain most about, whether they're legitimate or not, perhaps there's a discrepancy between the districts, which would eventually reveal some truth. If the same complaints are basically in all the districts, it may look different than if there are repeated similar complaints in one or two cases and the problem of police behavior could be traced easily without necessarily having to have some special agency, because there are things that can be fixed as soon as people realize what the problem is. In fact, it takes no more than talking about it to improve it, I'm not going to say it on my own, but with very little effort once the problem is clear and clear how to react to it. I noticed in this excellent bill that initiative role is indicated in the d-d-d-dr. I think it's important and very positive. At times, public members of the public will be indiscriminate, and it is very good that a surveillance committee does not need a formal announcement or anything to investigate a case on its own. The tragic event recently occurred that for the first time in Iceland's history, a person died following police action. It is very important for everyone to examine such matters completely, not just for the police, but for his fellow workers. What's the matter with you? paritaprevir Snoops Össur of Skarphéðinsson, who we only went to face with answers and answers. A senator approached the highest level of conversation. The Minister of the Interior, for the political access to all of this, I find this discussion interesting. I think it doesn't have to be on this bill to get it through, but of course there's something that I also think might be a good first step. Board of directors and surveillance committees and what. The head of the fine committee because I thought that it was already part of the committee's role in caring for that surveillance role, i.e. if she took it upon her arms to do it. In fact, I don't see that there is any law to do that, I would think that the environment around the O.R.S. would be sufficient already if a board of administration and monitoring committee decided simply to perform this role. I'm not sure of it, but that's what I'd hold quickly. However, it must also be kept in mind that not all such problems can be solved by law now. The bill has to do with telecommunications due to the government, by the executives, the police. A question is about the town's dealings with the authorities. Communication and eavesdropping, however, are far more extensive forms of communication. It has nothing to do with the authorities. There are companies listening to it. There are people in town who listen because technology has become more available. I'm not sure that the problem can be corrected by law that, for example, union leaders or senators are tapped, I dare say, in fact, that they are tapped, many of them, even by our friends. It's just that way. We live in that world right now. I don't think there's any law on this. I think if they want it so that it never happens again, like what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson just asked for it earlier, which means far more than putting some law on police or government surveillance. This must be done in a much larger context, with an increased sense of security for those who may be listening. It is a long-term project and very difficult to try to teach people about safety, so it is in this society like others that most people don't think they have anything to hide, which is, of course, nonsense, but in itself it isn't the main thing. An honorary informant, Edward Snowden, put it well, said that saying that you don't need privacy because you don't have anything to hide is like saying you don't need freedom of expression because you don't have to say anything. It seems very clear to me how important these rights are as the bill to protect, see, the privacy of privacy. So I think when it comes to the concerns that were tore up earlier. A senator is that bigger than this bill. To say that I find such concern interesting, they're clearly justified. I mean, people have been tapped in the past, and no matter what you think about government now or the highest. Minister now and what. Officials now and then. Senators now, there is always the danger that eventually the government will not become so hostile to civil rights and democracy. It happens regularly that people who simply don't care about the rights of their citizens and democracy will arise, but things are primarily about power. This has happened repeatedly and will probably happen again. Then it is important that the infrastructure is so that they are more inhibited and, second, that they can successfully cope with it if it does. Of course, it is the responsibility of all of us who build society to make sure that such things do not happen. I'd love to hear other people's thoughts from it. The management and monitoring committee on this matter, especially that. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson the son of Aphrodin brought up the matter, i.e. to the political access to the observation. I further wondered, " Is it not appropriate for that committee or perhaps the Subcommittee of that fine committee to examine regularly, though only the statistics on these matters to try to discern if everything was okay? ' Then I would also like to mention that I believe that information about wiretaps is rather personal. Since I would generally like the meetings of the World Council Committee to be open, there is a way of dealing with sensitive data in committees by preparing a Subcommittee, we do so at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education when it comes to granting citizenship twice a year. There, without exception, very sensitive data are being used, and it is very important that confidentiality be maintained and handled with caution. And it sounds like the evidence that would have to be handled with great respect and confidentiality of members of Congress, and there's one thing that would also have to be maintained, it's about immunity to have been tapped by the authorities. There must always be some reason why, in the end, it is justified or unjust, and there is always some reason for that. I don't think they're just doing it for fun. As you can see earlier, we'd like to go far beyond this. I suppose, though, that the bill can have a very positive result - I actually claim that the bill, if it becomes that the law I expect to become, will have a very positive effect, will create information that will be useful for the future, but also give some restraint. I think there's a lot of room for this to go well - or bad. This is something that we will have to reconsider after some time, not necessarily too long, to see how it worked. Of course, it's new, and it's also a matter of sort, more than anything we piracy would prefer to keep out of the party. That is all there is to say. I eagerly look forward to discussing the matter on a committee and receiving comments from noncommunicators, as well as looking forward to 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u93	Mr. President. I'm not questioning the claim. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson said it would be a relief to accept the bill involved here. I'm asking why. Councilman: Isn't it the seducing of a bill to accept a law on police surveillance without the order to monitor the police's authority to break what is most valuable to us, our personal privacy? Does it not matter when we are wondering how this matter should move forward? I believe that there is authority to go into what is most valuable to us. I believe this will protect a basic prince in the state of justice. That's why I think it's half-overurd to accept a bill like that without some way of addressing it. I believe that it is very easy to do so. Hv. A senator may be right when he says that there may not even be a need for changing the law on a administrative and surveillance committee, she can take this role if she chooses. I just have to admit that I don't know the Congress and their ordinances of a relatively new committee here at the council's job enough to be able to say if that is true or false. Is that not true, though? I believe that this matter could be handled in a very simple way. I put up a certain idea here today. She was reformed by the former legal director of a conversation with me earlier, when he said that this case could be managed by hiding this surveillance by the chairman and the vice president of the Board of Directors and Controls. They come from their political wings, and that would be at least a very simple step and would not need many more decades of discussion. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: Does he feel that he can get some sort of agreement on this in the discussion and processing of the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u94	A respectable president. I think it would be appropriate to consider that this is part of the role of a management committee whether it is president or vice president, Subcommittee, or whatever the procedure is. I think it's a perfectly legitimate concern. A senator has, and I'm sure they will. However, I don't feel that the ramburd teater, I have to say, to accept a bill that is an improvement in the rights of the citizens just because not everything is guaranteed by members of the council and other leaders, too, though it is of course important for itself. What I see on this bill is mainly about how the citizens communicate with the authorities. The most important thing to do is to make sure it's because I actually think it would in the least help to prevent such wires as that. There was a senator. By putting this into some process, I think that those in such a situation will have to go outside if they intend to engage in such activities. To start listening to politicians, I think it's a lot easier when there's no strong force. Whether this committee can deal with wiretaps on politicians, I don't see it. I can totally agree with what. However, I believe that this committee is not likely to do so, but I believe it will interfere with the procedure, which might indirectly help. But I reiterate that I completely agree. A senator that there is good reason to see if this is not to be done at home with a management and observation committee, no matter how it will be implemented in detail. Well, it's not necessarily the main thing to me, but I think the main thing here is the rights of the citizens to the authorities, not members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u95	Mr. President. These words of Hallgrímsson Hallgímon were used to describe things that were grudgingly funny and on the wrong foot by the normal activism of a funny person in existence. I find it ironic when people go to the job that is certainly needed, to set up some kind of police surveillance frame, that they don't even blink an eye--and that's not done, either in the reports with this bill - to this aspect that we've been primarily discussing here, at least me. But let it lie in between things. The important thing is that this discussion has been brought up here. The minister feels that it takes much more discussion to develop this matter. I think it's a much easier subject than it's ever been seen. I have offered specific solutions, as well as the firm's reform of the former legal body. As much as I often disagree with various factors in the matter of opinion. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, he's an example of someone I would trust to represent me and anyone, and he'd be careful of the rights of all in this, not just the people who sit here. Because like a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, earlier today, may be political groups that do not sit here and may be more likely to have these infusions. But we would choose such actions as those we trust. I'd trust, as I said, why. paritaprevir The armour of Níelsson the son of Nils, and what? paritaprevir Ásta on to Guðfún Helgadóttir. That's an example of people I would like to have on such a committee. I don't care who it is, I just want that if we take this step, we take care of it. I have previously described my view of how I will react to the progress of this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u96	A respectable president. I can totally agree that these views have been submitted in this discussion the most important thing in my life. I also believe that the solution, at least in the context of the question. A senator mentions, is simple. I don't think it requires legal adjustments. I think a board of directors and inspectors could do this if she did. Perhaps it is good to improve so as to ensure that this work will continue in the event that governments will establish an independent privacy and democracy. [[Up front.]] Although in the past we find examples of telephone taps for members of Congress and union leaders and such institutions, I don't think that if similar examples were made today, they would be carried out by the police. Suppose in the community there is a huge stakeholder - I don't want to take an example because they start arguing about it -- which is interested in listening to or similar from ASI leaders. Then I don't think the person would come to someone inside the police to achieve that goal. I think much more than that he would look for organized crime or for groups on the Internet that specialize in hacking people for money. I think it is the greatest threat, when it comes to listening to officials, union leaders, members of the council, and politicians of government and government. That's because now it's technology, so you don't have to be a police officer to listen to. This is what criminals can do, and they simply charge for doing it. So I'm much more worried about it. The solution to this will only be to strengthen your sense of security and the ability of the government and citizens and members of the council to deal well with your own safety issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-10-109.u97	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the arrest and delivery of men to and from Iceland for criminal action on the basis of a warrant for arrest. The bill was submitted to the last legislature but failed to succeed, and I again contribute it materially unchanged. This bill suggests a legal adjustment in order to validate the European Union and Iceland and Norway's agreement on handling of defendants between the states, or the so-called European arrest warrant. The treaty was signed on June 28, 2006, and the Allied Council authorized to confirm it on March 16, 2007. The terms of the agreement depend on both Iceland and Norway as well as on appropriate legal adjustments to validate the agreement. Norway's decision was completed in 2013, but Norway's minister of justice has repeated to me the importance of hurrying up the production of the Icelandic government, especially in the light of increasing threats of terrorism in Europe. It is therefore urgent that this matter be resolved during the present session. The bill suggests unity in one total law of the current law No. 12/2010, the arrest and delivery of human beings between the states of the North countries due to criminal actions, or to a Norse arrest warrant, and a new law is due to Iceland's commitments to the European warrants for arrest. The bill involves some important changes to the current system. First, it is assumed that the principle of the agreement should be applied to the state of citizens. The contract allows Iceland to compromise this principle with a declaration, but the bill does not assume such a statement. This proposal is based on an overall assessment of Iceland's interests as part of the European warrant for arrest, but in recent years there has been an increase in the need for international cooperation with research and treatment of criminal affairs. As a result of organized violations and terrorism, offenders are known to exploit gaps in different national legislation to escape law enforcement. This new arrangement helps to prevent such windows from being replaced. Then the agreement is based on mutuality, which means that if Iceland decides to deviate from the principle of surrendering its own citizens, other Member States of the Convention are permitted to refuse its own citizens to Iceland. By doing so, the Icelandic government may be facing the loss of a man whom the Icelandic government called for to be handed over to this country. By means of this arrangement, the cooperation would have limited significance. It is important to note that Iceland is one of the few European countries that establishes an unprovable ban on handing over citizens to European countries. Other countries either allow delivery of their own citizens or conditional delivery so that they will pass out punishment in their own country. With the current legal arrangement, Icelandic international criminals can use a ban on surrendering Icelandic citizens as a way of avoiding punishment for their crime abroad, and therefore they can always find safety on land. It is important to keep it in place that there are some exceptions from the principle of handing over their citizens. The bill complies with the contract of regulations that either Iceland's home or obligation to refuse or to enforce. In the 9th. The bill is listed as mandatory prognostic factors, if any of the circumstances in the area that exist are required to deny delivery. For example, there are cases when a person has been granted a criminal charge because of the same action in this country or when he cannot because of his age, he is responsible by the law here. That puts you in 1 0... The bill is listed as a warrant for a demonstration. These include cases in the case of an investigation due to the same procedure in the country and directed to the following. It is also permitted to deny delivery when a warrant for full punishment and the Icelandic government commits to fulfill the sentence here on the land. Furthermore, 2 mg is required. Count 9. the bill that there may be a decline on the grounds of human rights, and it may always be conditioned that an Icelandic citizen or individual living in this country will not be returned to another state on the basis of a warrant unless he is allowed to serve his sentence on the land if he is found guilty of a violation in another state. The European arrest warrant only includes cooperation between European Union and Iceland and Norway. It will continue to be banned from handing over foreign citizens to non - Icelandic citizens. In this context, it should be mentioned that since 1962 it has been permitted to hand over citizens of the United States to the northern countries. So it is not a change. Second, this changed arrangement will include a shorter deadline for all court treatments and deliveries, but in the current system it can take from one to two years to turn a man over to another state or to get a person delivered to another country. However, the changed rules may mean that delivery can take from one to four months. Third, the Ministry of Justice does not accept and discuss the case, considering that the prosecution or any other government in the legal system designated to issue a warrant, receive, and care for it, and decide whether or not to receive a release request. The bill suggests that the district attorney has this role. As we have seen, the bill contains rules that should facilitate cooperation when it comes to the delivery of humans because of criminal behavior. By uniting into one total law of law No. 12/2010, through a Norwegian warrant and a new law on the contract for the European warrants to ensure that cooperation in this field will be more efficient and more effective in fighting crime across borders. A respectable president. I wish that after this discussion, the case will be referred to the General and Education Committee and 2nd districts.
