ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u1	The President has received a discourse, dated today, from the Congress of the Agency for Karl Garðarsson to become an assistant of the General and Education Committee, as per Article 16. Convention on human exchange in committees. This change will be considered without vote if no protests are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u2	A respectable president. Today, exactly 40 years have passed since the approved law on equality between women and men. The law stated that their purpose was to promote equality and male and female status. The law focused primarily on the position of the sexes in the labour market, especially on pay equals. There were also regulations on equality education in schools, and it was decreed that advertisements would not be allowed to publish advertisements that could make the second sex a cause for demeanation or contempt. At this milestone, it is appropriate to remember that although there are 40 years from the sentence of this law, there are still places in the world that do not give women the right to the right to the right of men. 52 countries do not have equality in their constitution, as set out in Article 65. The Icelandic Constitution. 26 countries do not give sex equal status when it comes to genetic rights and 60% of those lacking basic education in the world, such as reading ability, are women. Sexual violence is a great global problem. In some places, it is still customary for young women to marry older men. Women are in most places in smaller parts when it comes to corporate management, they are in smaller parts, if not all regional conventions, and so on - in 2016. Part of the Allied Foreign Committee called on the Japanese Parliament shortly ago. Almost every meeting was that the host's initiative was to discuss equality, but the Japanese government now stresses improving equality in the country. You see, equal rights are not just about human rights, but equality has an extremely positive economic and social impact. Iceland has been successful in the field of equality. We can pass on our experience and continue to set a good example for less - than - possible nations, yet we must not fall asleep in death. The Dagur this reminds us of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u3	Mr. President. I'd just like to consider a new report of the Corporate Community because of the payment of the bill that has been being discussed at the council, perhaps supporting what I've held here, and is worthy to draw attention to. I think a Senate must take a good look before that bill is passed on. This includes the cost of the 15% of health care professionals using health care as much as eight times or more per year, lowering. The 85% who use my service, once or seven times a year, pay the difference. The wealth saves on this one, 46 million. K. which on its own is a reason for concern in this regard, for it affects those who may be less fortunate, i.e. Elderly people and micro-organists who use medical services and pay about 503 billion. K. more after the change, i.e. the group that isn't very regular with a doctor. The cost of visits by expert physicians is greatly increased by the low yield groups and from around 50% to 67%, which is much more than enough to be able to handle. There are studies including From 2015 onward, Rúnar Vilhjálmsson reported that less than 22% delay in the visit of the doctor because it costs too much. Who are the ones that delay? They are the most important people who have their feet in the community, including them. invalid. In addition, the cost of medicine, the savings there has not been a user, such as so many other things we have seen in the news over the past few days, that we do not return to consumers. A respectable president. We senators need to think before this bill is approved. [[The president calls.]] Do we want to protect people whose lives are in the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u4	V.E.G. President. Today, there are 40 years since the first European legislation on equality was adopted. Yet, there had been previously accepted as part of a second law, such as the law on the general balance of women and men in 1961, but public employees were the first profession to be legally protected by pay equals in 1954. It is rather tragic to think about how long it has been since the legal process of reinvestment and that we should not take the matter further. Icelandic women have been very united when it comes to extending equality. But now the goal is higher, and it is important for the sex to come together to work on equality, interest issues for both parties, and that most people are involved in the program HeForshe as UN Women in Iceland and people in many parts of the world. A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to encourage all men to participate. It is not only a matter of economics but also of social equality. It also points to the opportunity for men to take care of all that they think about without preconceived sex roles. There's no social agreement unless we allow it. Let us not let another 40 years pass before we achieve the results we pursue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u5	V.E.G. President. There are two recent reports, not directly related, and yet, that lead to my saying today. The second report is that according to the high prices of ASI, they have found that the Icelandic trade has not returned to the consumers the tollies that happened at the end of the New Year's season. This is in addition to what has happened before, including the above talks that the store has not been given because the cost has not been made. It is unlikely to remember that during the past 12 months, an average of about 6% has been raised in terms of large business coins. These facts show little moral strength in businessmen, that instead of turning it over to consumers, they go for what the State will do. In fact, it's preordainable that it didn't happen. The second story related to this, and maybe not, is that when Hagar, who is one of the largest business shops in Iceland, returned annual bills the other day, it was found that the company is almost in debt after five years of work. The company was established in 2011 by reorganization, which cost the banking system about 353/440 billion dollars, then selling capable men in cooperation with the pension fund, i.e. the profit of Icelandic workers, set up the business in this way. So now, after five years of work, the word is penalties or debtless. This trend is open to the national pension fund. Now I think that there should be a lot of thinking about, especially those who sit in corporate management on behalf of pension funds, or that pension funds get people in control in accordance with their holdings so that these matters can be resolved in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u6	Mr. President. This morning, representatives of the employment committee were at a meeting of a legal committee that covered a government budget. There, a professional minister represented answers, but he also falls. ..and we talked about a lot of things, e.g. The equation of transport costs. The project was set up in 2011 for the last government where export companies have the option to apply for equal transport costs to balance the competitiveness of companies far from exports. This fund is about 175 million today and has not been fully used. In this regard, I have talked about continuing to work on this project, and the fund as it is now fully used, and I have looked forward to leveling the cost of transport to the peoples of the country, who live far from the most urban area in the capital area and who have to go to the area with a large amount of resources to transport. People living in the country may know this, whether it is something of a building or a house - to - house defense, the cost of transportation is enormously high. This is also true of a small - selling store in a country where the cost of transportation is very high as shown in price prices. Bonus has leveled the cost of transport to its own, but the little shops are inexplicable. I believe it is a very important task to implement the thinking of the equal transport costs used by the export companies to this point, that it is transferred to the population and to the companies and retail stores that are the most distant capital area, many of which have to attend their services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to do a piece on a news story put by the surgeon on his website a while ago and turn to the right midwives to prescribe oral contraceptives. Today, in some countries we compare ourselves to, in other parts of the North, that there is a light - headed right to prescribe oral contraceptives and even nurses as well. This was the bill given at the legislature Convention in 2011 and 2012, where this check was to be placed in place for both nurses and midwives, but it survived. Today, surgeons call for these changes, and the office has actually called for them since 2008. I feel like sometimes when we're watching the health system, yeah, sure, we need more money on the system, but I don't think we can watch how we can get more money for the money we put on the system. It is also possible to ask, based on the amazingly well - educated medical professions we have, whether we use them well enough. Do we use physical therapists, nutritionists, psychologists, nurses, midwives, as well as possible? If I get my back, do I really need to go and talk to the family doctor? I might be able to get me a little further from Korter with a physical therapist. So I'm throwing it out. I have presented a written petition to the health minister regarding this case because I find the exception of the action and the attention I treasure to a surgeon I admire. I feel that he is reasonable, and I really think about how we can improve our ministry and get more of the money we put into the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u8	V.E.G. President. I'd like to turn foreign affairs into a subject of this program today. The reason is twofold. On the one hand, because the affairs of foreigners are on the program at the council these days, new alien laws are for a discussion on a council committee. However, it is because once again in the media, we read about a family that is sent out of the country because she does not have a refuge here. Now it's the Digas that came here from Albania last year. In an effort to save people from being here without the systemal basis, they call attention to the media and call for action. Iceland is, in fact, a restricted country for the foreigners who come here from countries outside the European Economic Area despite, for example. that there's a lack of people around here. There are, however, two exceptions, and in this case there are specialized employees and athletes and such foreigners who come to work temporarily through employee rents and often have very limited rights in this country. Undivided new foreigners will not change everything for people in the same position as the Dega family, but if the story of this family and of others who have been rejected from Iceland has touched us, I'd like to remind you that now is just a song to make changes in the foreigners so that there may be others here to live in our fine country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u9	V.E.G. President. The Social Security Committee for Professionals says that the results of the assessment of the usability factor at the Reykjavík International Airport, presented in the Office's Lab report are false and that it is not expected to be passed on to the brake standards. This is shown in the morning newspaper's report. Theefficient for use is not calculated according to the WHO's practice. But Iceland is a member of it, and it's in accordance with the rules of practice and has been agreed on the calculation of the F.A.'s security index. After a thorough investigation of the Safety Committee and the reference to the data it received based on information legislation on the communication between Efvia and Istavia, the conclusion is that the calculation of the usability index of the 06/24 track is wrong and the most serious error in the EU report is not expected to be by brake criteria on the runways. The world knows that Reykjavík's airport has a complex role. The safety of flight passengers and crew should be in complete priority, and when accidents and serious medical conditions are involved, it is very important to have immediate and safe access to medical standards. People have their lives for that. Course 06/24, a so - called emergency path, has made it possible that small machines used in a medical plane have met conditions that cannot be landed on other tracks. This has greatly increased security, and all of us are concerned. The district court has decreed that it should be closed to a minimum of 1 billion a day's fines. K. and the Ministry of Internal Affairs has appealed the court. It is a serious situation if reports aimed at evaluating flight security in relation to landing conditions are out of the wrong direction. By permission of the President, I quote here the orð of Ingvar Trygvason, pilot and head of the Security Committee: [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is essential that flight security waste is implemented in a legitimate and uninterrupted way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u10	A respectable president. I want to make a so-called leak of wisdom into a topic under this team today. According to Iceland's Habitat Office, there are almost eight of you. More Icelanders are leaving the country than they have since 2009. This is happening in spite of the high - quality statistics being displayed. The nuclei's journalist goes through these objects recently in a fistula. There he meets the wall that we generals in this hall have also stumbled on in our profession, that there are no information about any people who are leaving the country or any people that come into our country. What are the background parameters of these Icelanders? Are these people who are educated in certain fields rather than others? I've been standing here in this chair asking the highest. Health Ministers and be concerned that young doctors are largely extracurricular. He has answered me on the way that he doesn't know because we don't have numbers about it. The living room doesn't know what to do. It's very bad for us on all planning plans and in all the places we need to be taking in this room and at this job not knowing what's going on. There's got to be a remedy. We have to have information so that we know what we're talking about, so we can figure out what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u11	A respectable president. Today, there are 40 years since the first equality laws were passed. Since then, they have been revised four times with new emphasis, new affairs, and new ways. Things have worked out, but it's still good. In view of this, how glad we are that last night was in trouble! Social and Housing Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir for a proposal to conduct a four-year non-inferiority strategy before 2016-52019. This is the sixth time such a program is submitted, and its objective is to specify the most essential tasks in the field of gender equality. In my opinion, one of the most important tasks is ahead of working to improve the learning and working habits of the sex. I believe there is the key to success in many other fields of equality. This assignment is especially urgent these days when students of all schools are choosing ways to study for the next year and the next year. Factors designed to help balance learning and working selection fall under many topics and are in the working field of many different peoples. I think it is very important, therefore, that in the context of the review of equality implementation programmes, there will be clear objectives in these topics. We could, for example. So start by setting goals for gender proportions in certain articles in 2019. Why not start by setting goals for the sex ratio of the internalized in teachers and a number of trade branches? Then proper motivation could be applied. In any case, it is important to have clear goals about measurable steps when a large number of people must work together to achieve success. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u12	V.E.G. President. Since 1976, we Icelanders have believed that we are in the lead of equality, which year adopted a law on equality between women and men, No. 78/1976. So today, 40 years ago, the first law on sexual equality was accepted. In view of this, it is interesting to review the words of Gunnlaugur, son of Finnsson, in the past. The senator for the advance. He was a member of the Western Council, but according to the current vote of the northwestern district. During a discussion of equality, he brought up the amount of pay that existed between the sexes. By permission of the president, I would like to quote his speech, but he said: ▪ I think there is also reason to note that this situation is perhaps related to the situation between women and men in the business world. The most and worst among the young people who, in some cases, are working for their school expenses. There is, of course, much. Some of it's traditional. This is not taken into account in the fail of loans or other payments, but it will not be uncommon for certain girls'income to be just about half of what summer income is. A respectable president. Since those words were said, much water has flowed to the sea, and many things have changed. The law has been modified four times, with new priorities, new topics, and new ways. In spite of this, there is still too much difference between the sexes, and it is believed that there is up to 20% pay difference still between the sexes. It is too much, and we must continue to find ways to counteract these differences. I hope you and I Icelanders will have the privilege of recovering this amount of pay as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u13	President. As most of my fellow council members have noticed over the years, I am very interested in the better performance and support of the council. Unfortunately, I have been here seven years and have not been able to see much progress despite many opportunities to strengthen and promote the council. So I wanted to ask myself, " Is it not for the other members of the council to consider finding an example that set for us by a committee of the future and whether we should even imitate it? ' At the same time, I think it is very important to review how the committees are listed, since there are a very different issues discussed in the committees. I think of the Generals as a place where we can work together, the senators of all classes, to be subject to the future of the country, to long-term policy, that we will continue to relax for the next year, and we will do as has been done in the debates of the Agency and build on the story. If people had not had long - term vision 40 years ago, there would be no changes, then there would still be a very strange gender ratio in the country. We must have the courage to take big steps. We must have the courage to look into the future and travel there together. Congress is the best stage for that. There we can come together to shape and create the future, representing the entire population. So I suggest that we seriously consider creating the General Committee for the Future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u14	A respectable president. On the occasion, several members of the council have taken a stand talking about equality. I noticed that each of them was a woman. [[Up front.]] That is ironic in a sense. That is also typical, unfortunately. That is why I, along with the members of the council before me, want to draw attention to the program HeForShe, which points to the vital point that equality cannot be achieved only by women fighting for equality; men also have to fight for equality. It is just as with homosexual rights, they could not gain equality on their own, they needed the support of straight - ups and different people than the so - called norm in their material. The question of gender, two or more genders is not equal to me. Just as homosexual rights are not in themselves a matter of homosexuality, that's a question of equality, regardless of sexual orientation. Likewise, equality is about equality without regard to gender. It is crucial that there is something we come into as a community, not as a sex, but as a community, that there is the underlying prince we are about to adopt. I would also like to stress that this goal will not be achieved merely by law. Sometimes it takes good, but that goal will be achieved only by integrated efforts and cultural change because we want it as individuals, not as members, but as individuals, as a community. In all the discussions of equality and in spite of the very good developments that have already occurred, we need to realize that there is still much to be done. Why? This group of subjects has been given much attention for a long time. Everyone in principle agrees. What is missing? We need to approach the matter as individuals, how we view other people, not just by what kind of legislation we put.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u15	V.E.G. President. You'd think we'd do it. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir had agreed to discuss the leak of wisdom. Don't worry about the leak of wisdom? That question was just a headline of the nuclear reactor recently and a reason to pause. Here is a good economic situation, a low unemployment, and a public growth in many parts of the community. Then and just then, we have reason to evaluate the situation and make it our goal to do even more. But according to the Haguems Department's figures, like what? paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir came in, with hardly eight o'clock. From 2009 onward, more people, Icelanders, moved abroad than they did. We are a small group of people, and small changes have a great impact, especially in the long run. During holidays, we boast of wonderful schools and how much money we spend on the school system that has made us prosperous. Then we wonder: " Is there a basis for this? For example, when social growth and migration are rampant, there is reason to examine the education of those who choose to move abroad. Why do I say that? Is it possible that this background at home does not contribute to educated jobs? Are we promoting long - term imbalances? Because at the same time, the number of college students is increasing. It is not just the system that needs to be changed but that of the major context review, although it is certainly necessary to reevaluate the nation's educational system from high school to college. The education system, on the other hand, aims for university professors to become part of it. If they don't, they'll go to work. Is our educational system and policy weak a rise in society? Are we contributing to a long - term low - paying community, where there is increasing indiscretions and low - paying jobs? Are we too busy creating security in the education system and thus forgetting our policy? In order to achieve social change, it is best to change the education system and the right education policy, to promote innovation and technology, to start an education to prevent and respect. So the question that I'm going to leave at the Council is this: Based on education and education in security, not creation, which leads to a society's wisdom leakage that, in turn, promotes inequities?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u16	President. V.E.G. Yesterday, agri- and marine economist said that he viewed the cost of fishing as a special tax in the country, particularly in certain places where they were weighed. I'd like to say, then, that hunting costs are just a special tax from the city of Reykjavík, which is the greatest construction site in the country. It is natural to make such a statement and to encourage a habit at the National Assembly to act as if there were much gaps between the country and its capital. If there's an area between urban and rural areas in this country, it's already time for the people's voting rights. People who live on the north side of the Hagular tunnel have two and a half votes for me. It's rough. I'm not making it a special topic. But the minister also said that he liked the fishing fee too complicated and that there must be another way to calculate it, if he wants to have something paid for using the resource that must be. I'll figure it out. We can offer and invite the catch out, and we're supposed to do it in small amounts until we have eliminated this unjust eating system, which makes it possible for a small group of rich people to sweep money for themselves at the expense of the welfare system, at the expense of all the others. Then it says the highest. Agricultural and marine eco-efficiency: Why should others not pay, such as tourism or electricity? Of course, so should they. Nationalization is beginning to pay on interest, and it is planning on making more money. Of course, we're supposed to charge those who sell trips to see Icelandic nature. Of course we should, Mr. Honorable President. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u17	Before President gives a whatÖssur Skarphéðinsson, including Smoke. The President may report a failure of the vote system and therefore will proceed with the vote given according to Article 3. 80. g. Athlelellium, which reads: If a vote is not available for electronic equipment, it should be requested in a way that each senator will raise his hand when the president consults with or against a vote or which members of the Parliament do not vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u18	Mr. President. I think that's what. The employment board is to be commended for its changes. The initial bill was good, but its proposals were so much better. As for the 1st transitional proposal of the Committee, I would like to be aware that I made it evident in my discussion that I think there are two things I need to consider about this proposal; first, to raise the amount and second, to associate it with an index or any other quality that the merit of the tax system is based on. To say that, I want to thank you too. The chairman of the Committee, Jón Gunnarsson, for taking good care of my search for a review of the discussion. So this time, I'm not going to vote with this number, but I'm going to sit by and support the bill and the rest of the changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u19	A respectable president. It is not a question but a cold fact that young people as a group have it worse than other generations built by that land. Young people's income has been added compared to older generations, and young people have not had the same economic growth as older ones. Young people have fallen behind in elections at the time of national preparation. I've talked about this many times in this room, now last night at the highest. Social Ministers in relation to birth rates and birthworm. Before I've talked to the highest. Secretary of finance on these matters and other members of Parliament, of course. Some of these conversations have been fine, but I'm concerned that even the senators are talking about barbells in these topics or moaning, so I mean for younger generations, and I refer there for, for example, for example. to answers why. paritaprevir Andersen's crews in the Ring Lane TV room where we were set up shortly ago. But the numbers don't lie or howl. They show it in black and white. In 2014, the European biographer study showed that provisions were less than ten years earlier for Iceland's population. In other groups, however, the income grew. The analysis department of Arion's banks recently showed that people under 30 have been looking for an increase in power in the last few decades. Those in their late 20's have fewer hands today than they did in 1990. Ari Skúlason. An economist at the Lands Bank, said that when you look at the figures, it's so that in the last 25 years, people under 30 have been given a lot less money than others, and some even just dropped. It is bad if individual generations have it much worse than the previous generations. A respectable president. As I say, I've been talking about this position here before, but I think it's a reason to do it over and over again for as long as it takes to get people's ears heard. It is important that young people, like others, enjoy the fruitage of their work and hard work. It is important for society up to young people who are learning, setting up a family, bringing a roof over their heads, and not letting their power pass away. Iceland's economic growth is based on that, a respectable president. The nation is growing older, and we trust in carrying our taxpayers in the decades ahead and so that the wheel of the teeth is all must not let go of embezzling a single wheel. In my opinion, a private government has done just that. It has set priorities other than young people. 80 billion from the state's budget to the debt spills on the mortgages were not for young people. But the debt of a government fund that was not paid while it is stored for future generations. It was not to be equalized by such factors as. Cutting down a bit of insurance on student loans. They would have supported young people, but the government did not establish such priorities. Young children's families are in a dangerous place. The birthworm is such that people cannot take advantage of it. Fathers have stopped taking it because families cannot cope with various financial obligations. Support to gender equality, then, is also empty talk by this government. This is not a priority, for we know that in order for women and men to become as valuable workers in the eyes of professional drivers, circumstances need to be so in the community that sex can share in family training as well as in family life. Meanwhile, we will see the continued pay of the sexes. The burden of a young family in debt is also a major concern. The population that was most affected by the crisis is young children aged 25 to 40 years. This shows the results of Ragnheiður's study with her daughter, Guðrúnardóttir, which she did for a Master's essay. This government has not set priorities for family members. Where is a proper day care system for these people? I'll say the highest. Secretary of finance that. It's somewhere else in the North. There are schools free of charge, there people can integrate work and family life, where young people are going. But here at home, there are fewer births. People cannot afford to have children, and that, a respectable president, should be concerned about the highest. Secretary of finance. I'll take this conversation with him because he's the one who's holding the purse and in spite of a lot of talk about raising the birthworm and doing the rest, and this is not done, because people in this room say that money is missing. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The secretary of finance has set priorities for the debt crisis; it has the priority for agrienvironment schemes. There's money in there. Why are priorities so important? Ministers not to young people? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u20	A respectable president. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss the status of young people at the council. First, I'd like to say that the budget rests at the Council. You can see that the Secretary of finance keeps the purse around you, but it is at General Assembly to provide financial resources on the basis of proposals laid before the council. Thewelcomement rests at the General Assembly. [[The point is: You don't have a bearing on it?]] A respectable president. It is interesting to go back to 1990 and wonder about the status of young people. In 1990, I was 20 years old. From the time I was three years old until 1990, I was 20 years old, and in Iceland, inflation was always, every year, every time, above 20%. Often 30, sometimes 40, she went over 100%, but she was normally measured, and she was always tens of percent, from the time I went to high school and until I got out of high school. What happened was more a stabilisation period. What we experience today is inflation of 1.6%. Economic stability is one of the main interests of young people. What are some of the points that are considered especially for discussion, and I feel that it is important to pay attention? Evidence that the young generation in the country does not receive the same benefits from the economic and social growth that are taking place. The real point is that young people have not enjoyed as much economic activity as other groups have. In general, all Icelanders should have it much better today than in those 1990 control years. I don't think that's gonna be a debate. Pronunciation has grown so much, domestic product in Iceland is so much better. Imagine all the improvements we've made in the combination, in various supportive systems. For example, since children are mentioned, there was no birthmark at that time in the form we know today. The birth stock, the right to take ores of birth, in the way that we have guaranteed today in the law was simply not present during the comparator period. Still, people say that the situation of young people is worse today than it was then. I say: One of the main interests of young people is a powerful education system that has the capacity for these economic systems to create new, exciting jobs. In the United States, unemployment is measured to a minimum, according to the latest figures on either side of 3%. What an enormous interest this is for young people! Then there are the housing issues that are regularly discussed here, and they are discussed on the welfare committee on the grounds of the coming conferences. They wonder what we can do more. I want the government to roll up sleeves and to look further at what we can do with the public approach to make it easier for young people to get a roof over their heads. In that respect, we are, for example, in our case. to look at the extension of the special delivery system and improved and better implementation. Maybe we can call it the special delivery process plus. But we also need to pay attention to the housing market, which is a market that is like most other markets of forwards and demand. At present this is the case when we watch house prices, e.g. in the capital area, it is the contractors, the construction workers, who provide a substantial portion of the permanent prices of the apartment. Under such circumstances, we need to be careful not to improve the ability of the people to strengthen the demand side if nothing is done on the forward side because they will find their way directly into the price. For that reason, it is so important that it is a good conversation with the local community and that it is assured of the supply of property to build. [[Up front.]] Otherwise, we must submit to the law of the market. We should also take a deeper discussion of the actual interests of a young generation when it comes to own housing compared to getting into a social teneting system, because the examples we have from other countries show that it is a huge advantage for people to use their jobs to make their own housing. The situation of people who have spent all their life in rented homes is generally seen far worse in countries other than those who have obtained their own housing. [[The president calls.]] There are many things to consider, from choice of study to create jobs, refinements in the learning loan system, yes, better rights to have children and more incentives there, and housing markets. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to continue to make it exciting for young people to live here and take root.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u21	A respectable president. There's a secretary of finance here, like everything's going well with young people in Iceland. I think every young person in this country and every young person in the country will find that they have not been given the same amount of money as any other generation. paritaprevir That's what Ólafsdóttir mentioned earlier. I think every young person in Iceland has a real problem with how difficult it is to enter the housing market in this country after a huge rise in mortgage prices, especially in the capital area, in recent years, that I don't talk about the rent prices that are often on a pair at or even above what people earn. A respectable president. I also think that young people can feel it on their own as to how the learning loan system has been combined. At the same time, young people may also find that there is a very difficult time here for the birthworm, a person who has failed to care for it in the way it should grow. These same young ones, the ones who have their children, experience so much high school fees. There is absolutely no need for any of these generation accounts to be drawn up and seen in context, because getting started in life here is very difficult. We're supposed to face it. We're supposed to do something about it, but don't paint shiny movies like the top. Secretary of finance tried to do so earlier. This is serious. By doing something about it now, we invest in the future. We invest in the future here on land. Like what? paritaprevir In his talk, Ólafsdóttir mentioned, we need to keep our eyes on these matters for a long time. This is important because the nation is getting older, and we need young people. We do not want to see them looking for opportunities abroad because they are truly open to us, and we do not get along well in comparison with many of the areas I mentioned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u22	Mr. President. How important it is that young people envision a future in Iceland in diverse, powerful society! We left greens want housing available at an affordable level, education to be available to all, birthmarked at least After 12 months, the school will complete without charge. Iceland is supposed to be an exciting alternative for young people regardless of gender, and we want them to work left. As for the housing situation, it is long time to create a strong, stable, secure tenet, but at the same time make it possible for young people to choose for themselves. The currency market in the capital area is a poverty trap for young people, and here only a small step have been taken, which today is not dealing with today's problems. One of the possibilities to be considered is that the state or the camp loan fund offered a special payment loan that sensitive 25% of the price of a moderate first interest without interest to five years of age. This is where the Minister here speaks of the special delivery. We need to keep in mind that young people's wages are low and not all can afford to make a living. We left greens stress that part of the study loans will be made strong and that they will be paid out at the beginning of each month. It is an unpleasant presentation by the Minister of Education and LIN to say that under 50% of students are strong when it is known that there are only a few individuals but not a whole. All are to be able to attend any class or position in the community. An Icelandic student's loan fund was run by 7 billion dollars. leftover in the last year, but now cut down like nobody's tomorrow. A minister speaks of his vision of the future in education. It is not reflected in his national budget. Limitations are in high school. It is a reduction in the amount of donations made to a university that means nothing more than the number of restrictions. It is of serious concern that young well - educated people face increased unemployment and a lower income potential, which means that their prospects for proper living are not satisfactory. This government has chosen not to establish priorities for young people, e.g. with a decrease in child improvement, and independence and forwards have reduced debt and taxes for those of the community well-being. [[The president calls.]] It is their priority, not to create a satisfying standard of living for future generations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u23	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir for both very needs and good discussions. Many things are taking, and during this brief talk time, I will try to mention a few things that I feel very important about the future of young people here. First, I'd like to agree with that word. Secretary of finance that, of course, for all the people living here that the economy is stable, that unemployment is low, and that there is a loss of debt to the State. This has a crucial role for the future of young people here. We have to be competitive because people today are not interested in moving abroad if there is a better alternative, even though the family is usually slightly attracted to people in the end. But then there are these factors, i.e. employment, housing, and access to education. Let's start with the job. People have jobs all over Iceland. The level of employment is good, but it is not the same with countries in other parts of Europe, where unemployment among young people is even between 30 to50%. I see we're running out of time right now. You don't have time for this. Because we're here on a day of equality, I'd like to mention unemployment and women. I ran into an article in the core that educated women don't get jobs. Women with a university education are less suitable for work than men are, however, unemployment for men with primary education is higher. There's something wrong here, and even though we talk about good professional levels in Iceland, we, as mentioned at the council, have to find out what's behind those numbers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We have to go to that diagnosis because the matter is much more complicated than it appears at first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u24	A respectable president. It is important that we discuss this, but I cannot help but mention that there are more groups in the community who would like special discussions, such as old people and foreigners. [[Foreground on, we'll help...]] I just want to keep it up, but as I say, I'm not going to belittle this stuff. On the contrary, it is important to talk about it because it differs in the way things happen to different people in the community. When it comes to young people, I think it is particularly uncomfortable for a group that the cost of housing goes up enormously and becomes a major part of the expenses of young people. True, some of the problems are being dealt with, but it is simply not enough to point out the increase in money and so much because it matters about what it has increased. I am impressed that the cost of living by young people has increased. I don't think it's very likely, but I haven't even studied the numbers yet. We're Ásta. Helgadóttir She's in a foreign country, but once I've had discussions about the LAIN thing, I've felt that it was a system that couldn't quite decide whether to be a sponsor or a loan system. It seems to be something similar to both, which is defined by a lack of strength. I don't think the agency's clients will be able to feel it because it's worth a loan. And so is the other. A senator before me went in a little bit, that people need to be able to use their education here too. It's not just that we educate people, they have to be an opportunity to use the education here too. Maybe we should take a closer look. As a whole, I think that what is most troubling to people right now is the housing issues that, of course, take time to fix. As I say, it is not simply possible to point to some number above all in that matter, nor to young people who are so concerned about what the cost of buying is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u25	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion and for the opportunity to remind us that this is the 21st century. Airplanes have been developed to the country and since then, contracts have been signed that allow people to live in other countries, and the Internet has been invented that makes it easy to live in other countries. Iceland is competing for people in neighboring countries and other countries, foreign people, but also Icelandic people. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir situation is that we do not offer young people great hopes in Iceland. Admittedly, the situation is better than it was, for example. 1990, like the highest. Secretary of finance pointed out, but young people do not have the technology to get back to 1990, they have technology to move to the North or other countries. It is certainly good to know that we are not moving backwards, but the future is in the 21st century, not that. Sadly, we have been in a system with a government that has set priorities for the already existing ones. 80 billion were placed in debt corrections, which have primarily used a smaller generation and older ones. As noted, the increase in financial resources is primarily in the older ones. The changes in the tax system have been primarily useful to members of a senator's salary, and this is usually not the youngest generation. The increase in food tax bites on family members most. The increase in tax change rates is not due, e.g. on clothing, end of follow-up with these changes in tibia. What we need is a real view of the future, where we will give equal opportunities for young people in the future, a wide variety of employment opportunities, etc. [[The president calls.]] It does not always mean thinking about the situation today or the next four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u26	A respectable president. The underlying objective must be that young people choose to stay in the country. However, we are all too busy talking the country and the nation down. Then I think it's a good idea that we use this opportunity to get a little up above every day's a little bit and discuss the big picture, the vision of the future. As I said, the underlying goal is that as many young people as possible see their future in the country and look forward to it. I believe there are four factors that we need to consider, trust, and advance toward. This must be the ideal time to raise a family. My feeling is that it has been, not just in recent years, but for a long time now, so we will begin with it as much as possible. According to most foreign standards, we are doing quite well. Here, people need to be able to live with decent prospects. Although there are still some who are not good enough, in the last year or two, commercial power has improved, even so much so that money has never increased so much in such a short time. We are in the right direction, but surely we must continue. A third factor is that we need to make sure that young people have the ability and authority to take root here. We need to make sure that they have the opportunity to acquire real estate. This is a matter that we have been considering, and many good ideas have arose. Young people have given themselves a hand in this regard. For example, consider the idea of Már Maronsson's idea of allowing people to use pension money temporarily to buy real estate. There are ideas that I think we need to look at and talk about. Fourth, we need to make sure that there is a job opportunity for people and opportunities for young people to take pride in enjoying themselves. It may sound like a cliché, but in the end it's about young people seeing the possibility of making their dreams come true. That's what we need to start discussing seriously. What's the long-term album in Iceland? The government will never drag the wagon into making that opportunity, but I do view it as our part to shape the rules of the game and create the circumstances where strong individuals can set in motion their ideas that young people are not chained to the booth as well as to its creative power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u27	A respectable president. This subject is timely and urgent. paritaprevir Thank you so much for recording Ólafsdóttir. All generations in Iceland have broken free from the provision of land for future generations. We have considered a new generation to be living in a better place than the previous generation inherited. Now, for the first time in our history, the generation that is taking over has become more economicly worse than the one who is coming back. The so - called centuries - long generation that is now harding up in a person has had less room for life than has the previous generations. Young people struggle to build houses on high loans. The number of young people who have been affected by unemployment has increased most. Young people's childhood and growth improvements are down. In Iceland more young people than in neighboring lands are under disability. At the same time, the availability of young people for study is limited by the strict rules of student loans and the proposed changes in the law on the Icelandic Leather Fund. In other words, it is no longer necessarily possible for young people who are educated to have a home and find a suitable job, such as those of us of a good age. Young people no longer enjoy the security of the future. Iceland is a prosperous country with every basis for setting priorities for future generations, building a fair housing market here, a powerful learning loan system that actually sustains people, improving the birth mines, bridgeing the gap between birthorolfs and nurserys, and setting up an inexpensive health service that is a great deal of interest to young families. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to be able to change this, a respectable president. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u28	Mr. President. Young people's fields are composed of many factors, including how the welfare system is and the foundation of society. I want only focus on the position of young people in the country. Many parts of the country struggle with the loss of young people, and many say that young people are being educated, and that is not returning. Now everyone wants to contribute to the availability of a powerful education, and the country needs to feel that there is a great education anywhere in the country and that it is available. This government has certainly caught up in this, preventing education from being as accessible as it once was with the 25 - year rule of access to high school. Young people are expected to have a chance to live anywhere in the country. While all who have lived in the country with young children know that it is a good time to raise children, young people normally insist that the infrastructure is okay, education okay, offer good health care and play school, that school systems and all the social factors are all right, that transportation is all right, so to speak. All of this is important, and it has its own government. Over here, governments have drawn their feet to various issues. All too much communication can be done by high - speed networks as well as by the development of transport. Health issues are not far and wide around the country. It takes much more money to strengthen the health system. Iceland is a prosperous country, and it has every opportunity to invite young people to live a happy life, but we're not doing it today. [[The president calls.]] Something's wrong. The right government that has ruled here over the past three years has not set priorities for young people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u29	V.E.G. President. No doubt anyone has overlooked the fact that the past loss has been a major concern over the situation of young people, including those of young people. it has been discussed how much of its provision goes on for housing costs and difficulties. It may be said that housing costs have a significant impact on individual and family quality of life. During a council meeting, housing has been a big deal. A law on housing services has already been accepted, and building on that law is already under way at 400 apartments. Last night you agreed. Councilmen's bill on local community apartments after 2nd. The goal of the bill is to build 2,300 rented apartments for the two lowest of the five. There is a large group of young people. These include students and individuals who have just left school. In addition, because of increased housing improvements and the aims of the social apartments and housing reforms, housing costs do not exceed 25% of the provisional resources of the groups to be covered. At the same time, there is a coming bill that will facilitate the first purchase and achieve the most heavy measures to our young people. That bill is one of the issues that are in the priority list of those to be completed for future elections. It is, in fact, there. Substitution incentives, insurance-based action and review of payment assessments. In addition, there is work on the bill on changes in maternity law. It is designed to increase payment and prolong the birthmark. These are measures that most concern the group of people. At the end of my talk, I would like to make a decision and remind myself of the priorities of the government, since it has only been established in this discussion. It is true, and it is true that about 50% of the financial expenses have gone to the health and health care department. The numbers speak for themselves. In addition, the debt of state funds does not wait for future generations. The wealth has not been so successful in the years that we see amazing success in paying off the State debt as the figures show that will appear in a national budget program for the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u30	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussions here, but I still have some concerns. Councilmen and even ministers may not fully understand what is being said. You see, it's not like that, so I corrected the highest. Minister, that, in general, everyone should have it better. That's what the numbers show us, that's what we've got to see by countless economics. 1990, already the highest. A 20 - year - old minister who had more in his hands than 20 - year - olds today. That's the results of these analyses, that's the whole point. Perhaps the quality of life somehow was different, but the point is: The items are more expensive, it's more expensive to pay off loans, it's more expensive to buy everything you need, and the pay is not in terms of rhythm, they're lower in this one group, young people. Others have it better, those who are old. I'm especially worried about baby families. I think it's very important that we realize that it's an investment to help people afford to have and raise children in this country, that people can afford education, and then try to work here. You see, these young people do not immediately get the job they have trained to do, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] Though unemployment is low, it does not get work that is appropriate. It's good that a minister wants to create a variety of jobs, but I would point out that the first thing this government did was cut down an investment plan that was about creating a variety of jobs. The first thing she did was to cancel the raises in the birth Oralfs Fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u31	A respectable president. The first thing we did was close the budget and one of the first things we did was to raise the funds for the research and technology, the science fund, to create jobs for the future. I don't know how long we're going to take this discussion about whether it's better to be young today than it was in 1990. I just say, " What would people in general want to be 20 years old in 1990 or in 2015? ' What better rights are available now or as they were then? Which is the better place to bring preschoolers today or 1990? What progress has been made during high school and university? As compared with 1990, what work is being offered in 2015? Do we have to talk about it, for example? Does today's minimum wage have a better source of money or in 1990? I would point to the buying power of a salary that we began to measure in 1989 that has never been greater than today. This is just what I wanted to say about the 1990 comparison. This doesn't change what I quite agree with. A senator says that today there are many challenges for young people, and as a community, we need to make them attractive for their creation of exciting work of taking root here. The association is more open, as some senators have been, and moving to other countries is easier, and the competition for the young generation is much harder than it was then. In the meantime, we have, like, one. adopt the European Economic Area Convention, etc. The challenges we face are especially at the housing market, but let us not forget that it has never been easy for young people to have a place in Iceland. Or it may be said that when borrowing was overimbursed in 2004-2007, it was a little easier, but it may have been a little bit easier to borrow in those years with a high mortgage rate. Still, we can do better, and I say: Keep the prices steady, the walkings of the money and the increasing variety of jobs are on the right track. [[The president calls.]] But I thank you again for your excellent discussion here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u32	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize clearance for a new Western island. The bill suggests that the road model will be authorized to extend a new Western island. The invitation will allow them to choose the cost of a service contract for the construction and operation of a ship up to 12 years old, or the design of a ship will be negotiated for up to 4.8 billion dollars. on prices by the end of 2015. The bill assumes that the construction of the road as a transportation agency will be on the behalf of the state funds authorized to go to the most practical offer at either option. If it is chosen to make a 12 - year service contract, the ship's management is expected to have it after the contract has ended at the calculated price. By launching this process, which hopefully will soon be completed as soon as possible with the development of a new ferry or a service contract for the construction and business of the ferry, a grandly improved service to the Western Islands, with more frequent and more secure voyages between the Pacific and the Western Islands, where there has been a great need. Safer and more frequent shipping are of great importance to Westerners and professional life, especially travel. Since the beginning of the voyage to the coast, the number of passengers has increased from 130 o'clock. Annual passengers, compared to the last whole year of a village crew, to about 300 of you. Last year's passengers. This increase has been observed despite a number of months of sailing in the country. It is expected that at the end of the campaign, the number of trips will increase by two per week over the summer period, as well as the length of the summer period will be increased by one month to ensure better service. The design available depends on the conditions in the country. Available export data accounts for 69 m long squares, which may transport 540 passengers. The ferry is about the size of a Marine, yet it takes more automobiles every trip. According to Vega's estimates, new ferrys are expected to sail to the land-land crew at 76 and 84% per year, as predicted. Although the ferry is expected to be offered this year, it is clear that this is a long, strict process of discharge. The invitation to be advertised in the European Economic Area and followed by the rules and procedures in general for tenders like this. A significant long discharge procedure has to be expected because of the nature of this export. It is likely that both foreign and domestic members will provide for the building, taking into account both local and international vacations when deciding on the length of an proposal. If this bill is the law, it is expected that the invitation will be advertised in the summer, and it can be opened late summer or autumn. Two or three months can be expected in evaluating an offer and preparing a contract, of course, it's just a plan. In view of all of this, it can be assumed that an acceptable proposal and a written document would be approved later this year. The shipment of the ferry will be expected to be in the middle of 2018 or earlier if possible. A commitment is not expected to be due to a Western island vector in 2016's budget because it was not considered to be sufficient information to cover the production of a budgetary bill. Clearly, 29 C.E. track No. 88/1997, on state income, as per page 46. the law on government finance, recommends the need for legal rights to buy or rent property, ships, and other property listed there. This bill suggests that such legislation can be obtained by law so that the ferry can be released this year, thus spending a considerable amount of time in the outing process. In view of the lack of special legal rights, it is suggested that the road account be authorized on behalf of the state's funds to take the most practical offer at each other's disposal, as there are adequate funds available to the project, or that the agreement may otherwise be signed with clear notice that such sources are accepted in the fall. I think it would probably be in some way a part of the discussion here, whether at 1st, 2 or after the events 3. ... and a possible part of the discussion on the topic of committees and post-docations would be a good idea to take a stand in the Committee's list, to decide whether to provide sources with financial provisions this year if the situation calls for or if the council thinks that some part is due to the decision of a contract to be concluded on this case in advance of the budget of 2017. I can say for my part that it is reasonable that the council would handle the case in such a way that if the circumstances later this year allow the case to end with a special budget, which, after the incident, would only be done, that would be my best agreement on the case. This I'd like to say in advance about the project that remains after this report has been acquired. If the matter is accepted at the council, then, as I've traced, there's quite a long process ahead of you, and you don't see all the things that can happen in that process about necessary deadlines, possible delays, and other such. Still, I think that's probably what people take with me during the discussion. The budget for this transport project is expected in the five-year financial programme of 2017 and 2021, recently submitted at the General Assembly. If one of them were to move into 2016, it would just create some space back in a long-term schedule. These are the key things I wanted to get to the 1st. This case. I reiterate that I consider it a great advantage for us to rush as fast as possible this long - standing campaign can be. So we made a delay over the collapse of the financial system and the hardships that followed the government fund, but we are now running out. We've got this on a long-term schedule. The reason why this did not enter the budget was attributed to my history, and now the matter has become clearer. Well, I haven't spent long talking about which option I consider more practical, of course, to be guided by the results of the invitation. I think it's a good way that's been done at the State Department and the Vega program to keep these possibilities completely open to the auction, the two options set out here. A respectable president. After saying this, I suggest that the case be referred to a second. and to the budget committee to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u33	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to go anywhere on this bill mentioned, but it is, of course, as shown by the minister's case that 2008 was offered an invitation to build a new Western island instead of General. This would be done on a so - called private project, where a ferry would be built and fired, but the offer was very high and it was rejected. Then, as a minister of transportation, I had to go to the government, and I received a government warrant for the provision of the work in a traditional way. It seems to me that the same thing is being done right now. In this short answer, I would like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance reports that if the ship's service contract for building and operating up to 12 years becomes too expensive and too troublesome, whether it is a guarantee that there will be a warrant for 4.8 billion on the price of this year, the end of 2015, to build a ferry. Then my main questions will be whether or not anything will be taken from the current transport program and cut down on either road, flight, or otherwise, to create money, as it were, to build a newlf. What I'm simply asking for is, " Won't this be an addition to a transport plan, whether it's the current plan, that I think is too dreary, or if it's new? ' I'm just asking the highest. The secretary of finance whether it is a gold guarantee that new money will come in, not taken from today's transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u34	A respectable president. I find this difficult to answer because the transport program is in its nature just a forecast or a plan, a policy of how we plan to set priorities for specific projects and a number of cost programmes. What ultimately determines what is being accomplished in a transport program and in what order is the budget. What I drew attention to was that there is room for this ferry in our long-term schedule and thus on our transport plan. We've lived with it for a very long time that there's no room for transport in the long-term government program. We usually have an extended transport program approved at the council, which we must somehow adapt to in terms of government matters. To this, it's true. One senator noted that the ferry is not expected to clear something up. I also feel that it is important to keep it in place that we know that there will be some improvements in the harbor. Seas and ships were always thought of as one body in this matter. We've been behind a plan to finish the dock. This has proved to be a very serious solution for us in recent years. We have placed much more money to keep the harbor open than it was planned, and we need to look for all the means of building the harbor so that it can accept a ship and keep transport to the Western Islands open. [[The president calls.]] We must not let the export of the ferry in any way overshadow our ability to improve our ports. It is a task that must be considered as a unit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u35	V.E.G. President. I welcome the highest. The secretary of finance says that if we develop in 2008, we will have to build a new Navy for government money without a service contract, if it does, as it did in 2008, it will not blow out, as it were, the highest level. Secretary of finance said, other transport projects. It is true that the transport program is a policy plan, the long - term plan, and then the short plan, taking into account the financial conclusions. It's always been that way. That's why I asked that question. If we have to take a traditional national financial means to build the ferry by the age of their money to pay the ferry, the cost of building, then it has now been confirmed that there will be no reduction in transport funds. So I rejoice because that was exactly what I was asking for. This does not happen when funding are being put together and taken into account various factors; what we will have left behind, what we will have in the country, what is the expansion of the land, and what is the effect, etc., of taking care of things, as has often been done to cut down funds for other transport projects or transport projects to stop into some way or reach some government objective. But here it has been made clear, and I am so happy because I feared that the other would be the case, but now we have what we have to say. Then we'll just say, "Go on the road, or go on in the water. "
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u36	A respectable president. It is certainly true that there is no reason to believe that the structure of the ferry will upset or delay our other projects. There is no secret, however, that if for any reason, now I'd like to be a bit poetic, we wouldn't build a ferry, we wouldn't spend those money, however, we could still be viewed as having more on other jobs. This is only a matter of how you approach the opinion of the ferry whether it makes you do less in other places. You can't spend the same dollars twice on different tasks. What I'm hoping is that we will be restored to the Western Islands to power of transportation, that Western eyes can see that right now there will be an invitation. I hope that we will prosper in getting interested parties to complete the structure of the ferry. Of course, this was a matter of opinion on the part of whether we should take this selective approach because we have actually finished our design. There is more evidence to offer this option, to build and run a ferry, if the complete design of the ship has not been completed. The design of the ferry has lower elbow space. Nevertheless, I feel that it is proper to offer these options and only to test whether the private person thinks he can build and run the ferry according to a service contract in some way that it will be more practical than the government to build and finance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u37	A respectable president. I'm glad that this bill is done and that it's off to the Western Islands. That doesn't necessarily mean that I agree with this way, spending four to five billion on a ferry. There, we're picking up a minister and maybe more in here. According to Vega's plan, new ferrys are expected to be able to sail to landports, such as the highest level. The minister said, 76-4689% of events per year. If we take 76%, it's actually three months that we don't have to sail to land island crew, and that's not quite acceptable to me. Landing has been a popular subject. I say, there's a little bit of home, like ◯2007-lang, on this project. Western ears, in my opinion, are a bit impatient, to believe that a complicated harbor ends in three years. Three years later, the dock was started. Experience shows that it has taken decades to build and design rejection under similar circumstances, and more often than not, they have become good only when the gardens have been raised above the old gardens. I don't think that's likely to be the case in the land. Whether they like it or not, I think the fact is that the harbor as it is today does not exist in winter conditions, whether for large or small ships. It is evident in this programme from Vega's making, that it may be three months that the land island will not be sailed. When this port was attacked, experienced sailors were not listened to, and it can be said that most of them appeared as experienced sailors who knew the territory. If I quote only the words of Sigurður Áss Ás Grétarsson, executive director of the Roadmaker, he says three of the main options are in the situation, i.e. to provide a new ferry, to make significant improvements on the docks, or to write off the land island crew, and to design new ships to sail in the village. A Sigurður says that building the new ferry will take the longest time and at least. It might take a while, I can agree. But there are some experimental activities with the land island and, in part, my research is involved in building this new ferry too. I would have liked to see that a new ship would be rented with the same equipment as it is available to have on this new ship, with this screw equipment; to have it tested under these circumstances. This control mechanism and a screw device designed on this new ferry has been shown to be useful in this way in order to improve the control capacity of the ships. No one's arguing about it. But I would like to give a witness, by permission of the president, in a warning message from a man who works in the insurance sector; he contacted me and mentioned the concerns he had. This fine man had just returned from a international conference where insurance companies were meeting, and this very tool came to the fore, i.e. This Azomuth device on this ship. This man says: ▪ This equipment has been used extensively in the latest oil industry services directives. These screw devices increase the direction of the ship and improve fuel efficiency compared with standard screw equipment. However, this is the bottom point on the ship, and if it breaks down, the first thing that runs down is the most likely loss of control of the ship. This equipment is complex in structure, and it is in the foundation of a enlarged use of heels, as we know of the fast - fish boats. I also draw attention to the fact that when a ship with this equipment is used in conditions such as those in the land island crew, it is likely that there will be a great strain on the threaded pavilions due to the sand that screws up with an oil spill and a danger of space. So I believe that despite the benefits of these propulsions, with improvements in control and fuel efficiency, the risk of damage to these devices outweighs the specific circumstances in the land island crew that are in danger to ships and their passengers. In my opinion, a ship's propulsion system used under the conditions of the landy crew must be much simpler, that is, traditional screw and steering devices protected by a ship's cable and with a much more potent screw-up mechanism. With traditional propulsion devices, I believe that the ship would be much safer, since the risk of damage would be greatly reduced, as mentioned above. It struck me a little, I must admit it, to be at risk in this situation. I had now come to realize that this is the lowest point and if the ship was down there, it's a shallower space for just the problem and a trip to the sand, so that the sand might have come along and it's corrosive than they calculated. However, those who are familiar with these fast - moving small boats know that such sensitive equipment is very sensitive. Then I wondered: " If these bastards go to a leak, and the ship has to go up to a slipp--where does it go in a slip? Does it have to sail to Akureyri? Can it go to Reykjavík or Hafnarfjörður? It can be expected that, if a ship has to be taken up, it will only take a few days, but it will still take a few days. What will Western eyes do then? So, then, are there no transportation? So it's just a flight? I don't think a man snaps a finger, and then a ferry is ready to take over that service, even if it's just his professional life. There are freight transports, fish are being taken up to the country and stuff like that. So I put a question mark on designing and building such an expensive ship without testing this equipment. There's been a time and I'm convinced there's a ship that can be rented; and it could be rented right away. Now, though, we have to wait two years to improve our transportation to the Western Islands. By taking hold of and renting ships, we could immediately improve our transportation and test this propeller, how it turns out under these conditions. I also have to admit that the bill is expected to sell the current Shepherd for 500,700 million; in this example, it is not a big number. But I want men to figure it out right away and merely assume that there's an Herjólfur wolf on the sideline at least. I trust men will take care of themselves and wait to sell General, this fine ship. Who knows, unless something unexpected comes up? It's not just that the ship's smaller; I say that this ship is smaller when it's both narrower, I think it's about a foot narrower, and it's toasting. Even if it's up so far, we're talking about less ships. No one needs to tell me that a ship is as safe to the village and that it will be on its way to a difficult situation as it is to the presentpheil, in relation to the construction structure. So this will be less effective when the three - month journey to the village crew is due. I predict that it will be more than three months. I suggest that men calculate it all the way in, and we wander for Generals to be there. At least let us take the time to do so. I don't think people have to agree, by acknowledging that even three months is involved, that we're not talking about full - time service. It's a long way from being ready, let's just accept it. By permission of the President Sigurður Áss Gretarsson Grétarsson here: ▪ Making reforms at the Landing Sea will take at least five years, but it will likely take 10 to 15 years. It's not even going to work. A thorough investigation has to be completed prior to the procedure, which may not be fully met. Then they take their time. Quitting the land island or making it a summer base is another matter. The construction of fast - moving squares takes far more than the one on the drawing board. A ship of the size referred to and supposed to sail to the village in 2 hours will never fit for the land island. It must also be designed and built. In addition, there would have to be an expansion of both the village and the Western Islands. As far as I'm concerned, he's gonna hit that nail right there. In the end, it might have been the cheapest way to build a real shuttle and fix a harbor, both in the village and in the West. Then it would have been the most reasonable way. At least we're at that point, and one day we'll have to make a decision. It is our job to make a decision, and it must be found whether it is correct or not, but as I have said before, I would have considered it better and more reasonable to rent a ship with similar equipment, even though it only cut deeper, though it may cost a little more depth. That would have been a more reasonable way. I'm glad we're making a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u38	A respectable president. I am moved to come up here and say a few words about this bill because I am quite happy about it and agree with it. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's words that this is a long time rule and a reason to rejoice over it. Hv. A senator considered technical matters above me, perhaps enjoying his knowledge there as a sailor and knowing all of this. But what I find key to this is that this is the situation today. The decision to build that harbor was made, and certainly it may have been overstepped, and perhaps without a complete study of it and even not taking into account the various views given by experienced sailors at that time. That may be what's reprehensible in this. But the situation is that today the harbor is in place, and it has proved to be an enormously successful Western island. But we can't cope with natural disasters and so forth in Iceland. Many Western eyes have been blessed with the experience of living in a place where natural forces often make it impossible to get back and forth from the Western Islands. For example, recent examples show that it was not possible for two days, a serious situation. But the key point is, and we senators can have some opinions on how to do things and do them. But then I feel that the key to this matter is especially what the local people think. That's four of you. for people living in Grindavik and for me, far from being an expert on ports or transport, transport is a key factor in modern society. That's one of the biggest settlements we'll ever face. As for the Western eyes and the Western Islands, I follow them, what shall I say, thoughts and wills in this matter. That's my attitude after considering this, but as I said I'm not an expert. The Western island, the town council there, had Gallup work for a poll conducted in the fall and through January 5th. It included the question, by permission of a president: ▪ Please specify how much you agree or disagree with the following statement: I want a new Western island to be attacked and used to make changes in the coast of the country. The conclusion was clear. Of those who took sides, 86% of respondents agreed in agreement or strongly agreed [...] Considering the non-responders, 80% agreed with the town policy, 7% were neutral and 13% disagreed. This can't be much clearer. Another question was also posed in that survey, with the permission of the president: ▪ Please state how much you agree with this statement: I want you to stress the importance of improving your transport to the land. The result was even more convincing, since 94% agreed, or highly agreed, with, that claim. I say, it's really hard for me to start putting myself up against the case and what I've known and observed since I've been a senator. True, there have been skeptics that are not unnatural and that have come up with ideas of this, as noted in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator before me, renting a ferry, and certainly it's a possibility. But it's all white in there. It's what Western ears want. It's their highway. We have to look at all the factors in this. The cost of living in the Western Islands and traveling between the country and the island is also great. This is shown in a book by the Council of the West Sea council when talking about raising General's currency. I would like to read from that account, for it is very interesting, since the Council encourages the roadmaking to put emphasis on caring for its duty. By permission of the President, I'd like to quote it: Then, the Council of the City of Vega encourages emphasis on caring for their duty in ensuring adequate sailing service between the Western Islands and the land island, which is far more practical for both users and operators to travel that short distance. A careful estimate of a million a day for a government fund to sail in the country rather than the village crew and the cost for users is huge. The town council reminds us that according to road data, the total cost at Hinder Straitways is 14.2 billion. However, it does not cost users to pass through it. The total cost at Bolungarvík was about 6.5 billion. Nor will it cost us to pass through it. The cost at the Hafjörður tunnel was 4.6 billion in 1996 (recalculated costs amounting to tens of billions). That's a four-man family of 1,000 bucks. To go through there. The type of man who is now fully decapitated and the cost of land landing is less than 4 billion. The cost of a four - man family (two adults, one adolescent, and one child) is to take their own private car back and forth between the country (Therade), and the island is 35,880 k. when a full price is paid and it is taken. There is no need to remind that there is no other way for cars between the country and the island. A family going once a month that way pays off in 430,560 a year. for going along the highway from home to home. It is also a big question that we senators need to consider what we can do to meet the fact that Western ears pay so much to drive the highway while other people drive through a tunnel that has spent more than tens of billions of dollars in recent years and does not pay for it. That's discrimination. Then, for example, there is no need to discuss health matters in the Western Islands. Last year, between 50 and 60 children were born in the Western Islands of the West, of which only three were in the Western Islands themselves. Which, naturally, is quite the greatest statistics, on the count of four. a community with whom such income is returned to Iceland and into a state fund can't be held with surgeon and operating room care. It's just unacceptable for the community that's the top part of the land's raw industry and that's a very difficult and dangerous job. For example, when you were on a trip last year, you heard stories about what happened to Western eyes that people had to give up land because they couldn't get on the ferry. But a new ferry will solve it in many ways. The number of travel will increase, and it will take more passengers, the same as before, and it will completely change everything for the Western eyes. Those are their words, not mine. They themselves believe that this will change everything in the Western Islands. In fact, it has been observed about travel services, in the case of the highest court. Secretary of finance when giving the bill, the huge increase in tourists to the Western Islands, which has put everything on a completely different schedule for employment and other activities. Those of us who've been there know what it's like. But I'm glad the bill is on, and I believe it's over in the Western Islands today. I hope this is a step towards making perfect transportation between country and island. They may never be perfect, but they will be much better than they are today. As I mentioned in health care, there has been reports that the patient's flight has also been impaired. Previously, patients could fly directly from the Western Islands. It's no longer possible today. They have had to wait much longer for a hospital flight, which is naturally not acceptable while there is no perfect health care in the area. We've already discussed the fact that there is a bill, and it's been down a long time, since what. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir on transport to the National Guard, which would be an enormous step, and then on the National Guard to care for medical flights, at least in the Southland and perhaps in the West, but could then have a contractor to care for the North and East. That would be a great improvement. I agree with Elliði - Old Vignisson, who wrote a recent Eyja News article in March or in which he says, among other things, by permission of presidents: ▪ It is my solid faith that most Western islands depend on a reliable use of land - to - sea transportation in the next few years. If that's what's happening, I'm not worried about the future. I totally agree with Elliði. Although I disagree with him sometimes, I completely agree with him on this. The discussion of transport and transportation has been difficult for Western eyes. She's been really tough for years. As mentioned above, 2008 was set out to build a new ferry. Eight years have passed since then. It's unacceptable. We need to take care of that area and not discriminate it because, as we read in the constitution, we cannot discriminate anyone. Sadly, we are doing so by not having perfect, or as perfect transportation between land and island as possible. I welcome the bill, and I hope that there will be good, immediate progress for whoever the result is financing and something like the highest. Secretary of finance mentioned earlier. I hope, indeed, that for a brighter time, these events will begin with something good, and time will be used to rebuild the docks and get to the bottom of what is best to do so so that the rest of the land crew will be least. I'm sure it would be acceptable if we reached it down to 30 days a year, which would be truly great. But we don't have natural forces in Iceland. They don't ask a king or a priest how they behave. We need to fight them naturally. But I certainly hope, and say again and again, this is a blessed step for the Western eyes and for all of us Americans.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u39	A respectable president. I want to do what other people have to do. Senators and members of this bill are happy to be released. This is one stage of good news for the Western Islands and the whole country. I agree with what. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, who ran over the Western island earlier. It's like a good meeting in the Western Islands. I agree with him every word. There are many urgent matters in the West, but the two major issues and the most important issues are transportation and health care. These are basic services in every society, and they must be of great interest and determination. Here we will discuss one of the issues that are how we make our way through the highways to the Western Islands, which say sails with the Navy between the Landing Sea and the Western Islands. This was shown in a talk by a young man. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's view that it was possible to go another way. I don't think they're being discussed. After a decision to sail to the land island crew was made, all who have made good use of the transport revolution have seen that it is when the coast is open. There is no one, that I believe, who runs a business or tourism, who lives in the Western Islands, or who has to look for a place where he would like to return to the village. Once humans have seen the better qualities, they want to stick to it, of course. Then I'd also like to remind you that it took, I think, a way for 40 years to develop the Groupate. So, yes, we haven't finished the land run yet, but we're not sure if it can succeed. But after how long it is impossible to say. I stress, and agree to what has been said in previous speeches, that the construction of a new General is only one factor in securing transportation to the Western Islands. It will not be a complete victory, but hopefully it will greatly improve the transport process. When the ferry Baldur solved General, we had a shallower and smaller ship that could sail much longer than in any other situation. I think that will be the case with the new ship, and it will even be able to sail much more than Baldur could because the ship will be specially designed for the Landing Sea. Therefore, we should be able to maximise the use of the dock under the present conditions of this ship. We can also see better when a new ship is faced with the problem of design at the docks. If there's a fixed bottom pump system inside and another, we can use this much longer than the year. Every week, I'm not talking about every month that's being added to a new ship will be very important to the Western community and, especially, the tourism. Each week there is a significant factor in the survival of that business. We can always take the discussion about how important it is for a new ship to arrive in the spring of 2018, not at all later, and preferably sooner. Then there'll be some experience with the boat during the summer, and we'll see how it works. It is often with new ships, cars, and all new instruments that there may be some sort of starting problem. I'm saying there's nothing to sell. Let us see how this takes place and find some experience. And don't forget, we have more squares in this country, and everyone has to go to a slipp, and it costs to rent other squares. Therefore, it may not necessarily be expensive for the state to have a Marine continue for a number of projects that exist if a new warlock has to go to a length or if some situation needs to be faced that may arise after the new ship is arrived in the country. Then it is important what happens while we wait, these two years that can take a long time. It is important to ensure that the service at Gjólf and the dock today is best and to ensure that there can be depth and have the situation so that there can be a way to go as far as the Sea of Herlf to the Landy Sea and that if you have to sail to the Shrew crew, the same fare between the Pacific and the Western Islands and the Western Islands can be done and between the Western Islands and the Pacific, a ticket to the Land Islands can also be paid for the crew. This is of utmost importance in terms of domestic conditions, for at the start of the harbor, it was the same project, the land island crew and the boat, General. It is not to be bitten by the inhabitants of the Western Islands that the Kingdom has not been built before, as it has so far. It also requires increasing the number of trips possible and the number of these. There are these things that we need to keep clean until then and it's important that time is new, as I came in earlier, in finding permanent watering equipment within the water. We need to make good use of our time. The experts involved in this case tell me that if a new ship had been placed in that winter, it would have sailed much more without depth, except natural with water down inside the water. I don't know exactly how much longer but it's all in my head. Let us keep that in mind. It is also good to mention that a new process will become more practical in business. It is far less expensive to sail to the islands, as it is necessary to understand, than to go to the village crew for fuel costs and pay expenses and so on. If we have a new power - controlled ferry, the cost of fuel and the cost of operating will be further reduced. Investment becomes even more practical for the state's funds. That's important. Getting a new ferry is not a lost investment if something else comes up and a much less expensive way than to start by doing something at the dock we do not know which works or not, even though we need to keep looking at all the ways in it. It has also been established here, which is of great importance, the enormous solidarity that has been at home in the Western Islands, especially within the community, where people want to go. In the Western Islands, there is a solidarity to travel to the landland. Perhaps the issue has been more about what priorities should be, how to change the harbor, whether first to change the port before the ship is made, and so on. But the town government and the townspeople have always held together for this shallow foundation, to ensure sailing between the land island and the Western Islands all the time. It is important and important that this remain. This is the main thing. I'm celebrating this phase. I will congratulate the Western eyes and the whole nation when the ship sails back to the Western Islands, it doesn't pay to celebrate too soon. But this is one of the most important matters for the construction of the Western Islands along with the natural health care and other basic services we will follow closely at the council. I hope such important matters are quickly and well-deserved at the council so that the invitation may be started quickly. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance entered our home, but we do not know what might be a barrier. Sadly, there are no unnecessary demands on this matter, which has not been established before by various obstacles. That is why we stress that the matter is going through rapidly but safely. There are also great interests in getting this out as soon as possible from shipbuilding stations and such. It's important that this doesn't come later than the spring of 2018, as I went over, to train and test the ship and train the crew, to learn in summer conditions rather than winter conditions. We hope for the best and hope that all of this will work together well and that we will see in the immediate future a secure, safe, safe journey to the Western Islands. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u40	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize clearances for a new Western bistro. I'm not gonna keep this far today, but I'd love to agree with the people who have spoken here and to draw attention to the importance of the conduct of this case. Western ears have been waiting for transportation improvements for years. In 2008, this project was put on ice. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson has pointed out that the harbor is not really ready, but it is my view that improvements will not be done without a new ferry being built as originally planned. That's why I'm celebrating this case and because we're at least in a way somewhere. This is one stage, this is a way, but if this is the best way, I dare not say. But I think it is very important, as other senators have noted, that the current Army fairy is not sold because on bill it shows that only 76-4689% per year, or 84% in the middle of the year, will we need another ship to ferry people to safety in order to ensure good transport between land and island. There are various points here, and I would like to draw out some that I feel are of great importance to me, which is based on this subject. The cost of each person is much lower when a person is able to sail between the landshore and the Western Islands. Home - to - earth flights are very expensive. It is hardly an option for families when they have to go up to the country for service. So it is quite possible for a Western country to have traveled to landports with a safe ship, safe transportation. Homesteading is good. As we have seen, this is not a simple matter, and it has been achieved in which way to go. But they say that since the harbor has arrived in the islands, the next step is to build this ferry. We can't stop now. Like what? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason mentioned earlier, they just don't want to go back to the comparison that had to sail between the Pacific and the Western Islands and then back to the Pacific. It has also been observed regarding the construction of trade in the Western Islands that when the Red Sea has not been able to sail in the Pacific, it has been seen that it has been necessary to pass through the Sharkate, traveling workers have found themselves in the massafas of the books even large groups who have intended to celebrate a annual festival or a cod bath or what it is now. This insecurity of transportation, that there has been very great damage to professional life in the Western Islands. A new ferry will undoubtedly build up for continued employment in Western islands, tourism, and, of course, all of us need to move, especially fish transport, to do well, and safely. Another thing that has been mentioned, and I want to draw out here on the disease-fly. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson noted that there was a return when the Western hospital flight ceased because the weather conditions are very frequent, so the island can be flown to shore, not necessarily to Eyja. I believe that the security of the West is impaired by that change. By ensuring safe transport at sea, it is at least improved by some means. But I'd like to go further, and I'd like to change my plan on the first plane. When you google, as it is called in poor Icelandic, you cover the local newspapers of the Western Islands, i.e. Islands.nets and island runts.is, you find a lot of articles on transport and military life. This shows that there is no misdirection of health care in Western countries, and transportation is a major factor. That's what people talk about. That's what people call for reform. The current bill is a process of transport improvement. I'm glad you're here. I printed a story for fun I think it's on an island network from January 11th of this year. The report tells us that in 2015, Red Sea sailed for 189 days at Shöldell Harbor, 345 missions took place between the Western Islands and the Pacific. Based on this information, it can be assumed that there are more days in the Pacific than there are in the Pacific. It's probably a print error. This is definitely supposed to be 345 trips, of which 189 days are in the village. Some day he may have sailed into both ports. When I looked through the local newspapers earlier, I noticed from April 15 that this year's first trip was gone. A barbecue in the Western Islands was thus welcomed. Seaports were not used much for the entire winter, and it severely impairs the transport of people in the Western islands. After trying to sail between the Pacific and the West, and then again from the Village of the West Island, I hesitate and go to the West Sea Island if I have to leave the village because you just get sick. It is a difficult journey for land cancer to sail for perhaps three hours, even four, at least for the weather. I understand that people don't want to go back in it. But at least we're here with this bill. Let's take it slow and wait till we sell the old General when we get the new ship. Let us allow the new ship to prove its integrity to the inhabitants of the Western Islands. Finally, I would like to mention that in the treatment of this case, a very good approach was made to a number of individuals with interest, including the local Ministry of State, the Road Building, Kingdom Buy, the Western Islands, and foreign and national advisers in the shipping and docking areas. The matter is complicated, but the task has been carefully handled. These are transport reforms. So I'm on board and I hope there's a good walk here at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u41	Madam President. This situation has grown to such an extent that I have a wide range of viewpoints about how to improve transport between countries and Eyja. We've long ago shaped the course, chosen the path that's being followed. As I reasoned that in my first speech, harbors and ships were always related to things so that we bet on the land island as the best way to make transportation and improve the Western Islands, and in this way we could increase the number of trips we travel in time and choose at the same time in a more secure way than the one we have had, I am not at all referring to the frequency of travel. But we've been dealing with the forces of nature, and we've been missing because of the circumstances in the land of the island that our most skilled experts are working on. That work continues, but we can no longer wait to finish the part of the matter that turns to the ship. That's why I'm bringing this matter into the council to make sure we can go to the auction. Complete design is complete. This ship is much more shallow than the ferry we have today, so it should be much better to deal with the situation at sea, but we need to rely on our leading people, our experts, to continue our work so that we can get the maximum use of this investment at the same time as we improve transport. I think it's very happy that the case has come to this point. I hope that the matter will be resolved quickly and safely during the council, but I urge that the matter will still be examined very carefully. I know that the Parliamentary Committee that receives the case has recently been taking a special look and called to him all concerned and should therefore be in an excellent position to handle the matter fairly quickly. Then, as I went along with my first talk, I will ask the ship out in a manner that is being preached here and press the case. Let's hope we get a new ship for the benefit as everyone, first of all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u42	A respectable president. I recommend a commission on bill to legalize the arrest and delivery of people to and from Iceland for criminal action on the basis of a warrant for arrest. The nominee is brought by a greater portion of the General and Education Committee. The matter also appeared to the committee at the last assembly and was replaced by the Committee, but it was not completed before the end of the council and so it has returned to the council. We took the case back on the committee and are soon to say that it is back to the 2nd. At the council. The bill is based on cooperation and European legislation and is suggested to combine with the regulations of the current legislation No. 12/2010, the arrest and delivery of human beings between the states of the North due to criminal acts, and the new legislation resulting from the commitment of Iceland due to a contract on the dispensation between EU Member States and Iceland and Norway, signed on June 28, 2006. So this has been in preparation for a long time. We reviewed all the major factors in the matter and made sure that all human rights and allegations were acceptable to us, and we had a client come and discuss the matter at the last council, and we were convinced that we would not be doing anything about the human rights of the Icelandic citizen. In fact, it's all about cooperation, and for us to have people delivered to us, it's important that we share in cooperation and counterlievers, but to meet conditions, i.e. to meet all the terms of the European Convention of Human Rights and the terms of contracts that have the legal value of this country. So the majority of the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed as unchanged. Under the heading, write why. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Linska Anna Sævarsdóttir, Þorvarðardóttir Kjerúlf, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Einarsson and Saggi Svavarsdóttir, but Unnur Konásdótir's Konráðsdóttir was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u43	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee of Directors and Control Committee on bill to legislation on state accountants and review accounts. The bill has been for the treatment of a management and monitoring committee in the winter but also for a few coverages on the Committee of the Last Parliament. The bill was reassigned this fall, and the work of the Committee included a reimbursement. the reviews of the previous council and the arrivals of visitors in the committee's opinion. Regarding the matter, it can be said that following the council's work on the increased surveillance role of the Parliament with the Commission, proposals were made to review the laws of the Constitution and was moved by the Committee to Presidency on the basis of this work. The committee reviews a few comments on the background, and I'm not going to trace it any further, but I want to kill on some of the things that were important to the committee and give special consideration to the work they did. First, by means of the bill, the plan is to highlight the position of the state accountant and the independence of the Agency. It is obligatory that the State Accounting job of the Generals is a confidentiality with reviews and control of the government's finances and affairs. Regarding the state accountant's position, it is expected that a government accountant will no longer be employed by a prime committee. Rather, he will be elected by the council in the same way as the General Agent of the Council. Then the bill assumes that the proposal to replace a state accountant will be made to 2/3 parts of the Parliament. Understandably, the purpose of the change is to strengthen the independence of a state accountant to the council, which, of course, results from the nature of the office or the work that results in political differences. Hence, it is reasonable for the committee to follow the proposal made in the Presidency Committee to strengthen the position of the state accountant in this regard. Similarly, the Committee agrees with the points of the bill being subject to the work period of a Kingdom accountant. It is expected that the vote will be six years old at a time and that a government accountant will have to be reexamined once so that his entire career may be 12 years. Some comments were made about the appropriate conditions for a State accountant on the bill. The bill as requested required by the state accountant to have a legalization as an accountant. This point was discussed considerably within the committee. A government accountant is the head of an institution that has, among other things, been an organization. with the hands of reimbursement of government bills. They came to the view that it might be reasonable to view nonconformation as a accountant when it was chosen for the ministry. Other experience, management experience, and knowledge of the administrations would be important in this too. While the Commission concluded that the requirement for legalization in this subject was to submit, of course, to those who are employed by the office taking note of accounts would have such legal requirements. However, it would be necessary to look overall toward Kingdom accountants when the appropriate conditions were developed. Therefore, it suggests that instead of the legal requirements, it is a requirement for a state accountant to have knowledge of accounts and government management, as well as management experience. This means that those who have legal requirements that the accountants, of course, are highly qualified but are permitted to look to other factors as well. The Committee also discussed the field of activity of a government accountant. While we suggest that the text be transferred to a point not in the original bill, it is in the current law that a government accountant may be a member of the Parliament to assist with the work on the financial issues of the state. This point could be said to indicate that there was no need to specify this specifically because it led to other aspects of the Law text. But the committee considered this to be the right thing to make. We discussed in a considerable way how a public accountant's request could be made. In the 17th. The bill is suggested that the Council's Presidency Committee be able to either by its own bill or by the request of members of the Parliament or by members of Congress, to collect a report on individual cases or litigations that fall under his territory. The Commission and monitoring committee suggests the change that this project will be carried out by the Commission and the Commission, not by the Commission's Committee for the role of the Commission and the Management Board on the part of the Council. However, the Commission and the Commission will not be the only way for the council to request reports from state reimbursement but also the possibility of requesting a report in the same way that members of the Parliament can now ask the secretary for a report on a specific subject. This happens in a way that nine members of the Parliament can agree to request such a report, and it is available in a Senate hall without a discussion. The bill, as stated here, assumed that members of Congress or members of Congress could request such a report, but the members of the committee felt that this could be done without the presence of members of the Parliament or members of Congress. Of course, it is condition that nine members of the council need to be made, and this requires approval in the Hall of Congress to deliver the petition. However, this does not alter what is stated in the bill, and it is in the committee's opinion that a state accountant is independent of his work and in accordance with the order of the council. So a government accountant always takes his stand on these requests from the council in any way that they may be received. The Committee discussed how it should be carried out in the presentations of a government accountant. The Committee suggested that the same practice be followed, e.g. in Norway, where the first public reexamination presentation is carried out by a management and monitoring committee. The denominators failed to agree to make such a suggestion. It was a controversial point. It was thought that it could block or delay a presentation on the results of the Government Review Study, especially if the council is not at work. However, the Commission shall have a strategy to seek the work of the Committee to meet with a state accountant as soon as possible after a report has been submitted so that a management and monitoring committee can thus participate in discussions of the report to the beginning. The above article raises some questions about a special - fitting member of the State accountant. The bill includes clearer regulations about how to deal with it if a government accountant or his employees become incompetent. Of course, a decision of state is not subject to anyone's work, and it is important to make this decision. In the event that a state accountant or employee is incompetent, it is assumed that others will be assigned the job and, in the case of a state accountant, it is expected that a special public accountant can be put to the treatment of a special case such incompetent citizen. The bill expects a change in the terms of the State accountant's remuneration and remuneration of the decision made by a prime committee in the same way as the salary of the General agent and the salary of the Supreme Court. The committee concluded after a few speculations that it was proper to hide this role from the dresser council. It is handled today, and in fact, a board of discretion makes decisions that involve the salary and the office of the highest office of all three branches of the state. Because the nomineers did not consider it to be a different way of handling a government accountant, the committee makes a modification proposal from the text of the bill. The main project of the State accountant is to review and follow up on the financial issues of the state, but Government Accounting also plays a role in a so-called administrative review. The bill expects to change the format of the directive for administrative review. There was an occasion for discussion about the boundaries between administrative decision reviews and then something closer to being some kind of political policy that can be considered in itself. The Commission does not make any adjustment proposals in this respect, but it does not mean that a state reexamination is the key to promoting policies that are actually under the political realm. However, a administrative decision can take into account the best way to promote economic, efficient, and efficient management. As I say, in spite of a few discussions about this role, the result was not to be submitted to a change in this matter. The committee's opinion also contains some discussion on the overlap of Kingdom Review projects with other offices, e.g. A general agent. We focus on the importance of government reviews as a focus on the implementation of budgets, the monitoring of government financial concerns, the monitoring of the state's business as a most practical means of business. However, it is not the role of Government Accounting to determine legal matters, which are more likely to exist under the office of an agent or a court, and are under some consideration. Of course, it is now that a government decision must, of course, be taken into consideration certain factors in this regard. In some respects, that is inevitable. However, the field of work focuses primarily on the economy, not on the interpretation of legal matters. At the end of the Commission's review, it is suggested that the subject on the value range of the bill to the legislation on accountants and critics, which has come from a series of accountants to the bill text and topic field of Government Review. It is now, of course, that the staff of the State Accounting Office, which conducts reviewing projects, will have the legal basis and, of course, submit to the legislation of legal accountants, or review of annual accounts and so on. However, there is a law on Government review and the workspace of the State accountants and its role in terms of government and government interest, in particular, that can be said to have a more comprehensive role, and at times it needs to look at things from a different perspective than in general on annual reassessments. In this article, I refer to the directions in this regard to a number of adjustments made in accordance with what I have here. I want to know that, in view of the fact that we're in the middle of the year, the change in law will take effect on January 1, 2017. So there is a period of adaptation, even though the bill and the changes it contains may not change much about the Agency's daily activities or its scope in other ways. Under the committee, the writer of this magazine, Ögmundur Jónasson, president of the Board of Directors and Observers, and members of Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Brubbur Níelsson, Arnardóttir Lára Eagledótir, Helgi Hjörvar and Willum Þór Þórsson. The Árni Páll Árnason and Höskuldur Þórhallsson were absent from the case, and Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, an officer of the committee, expressed himself as an acceptable officer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u44	President. I thank you for your storyteller. This is not the first time this bill is discussed, and I appreciate the changes made here. First, and I've mentioned this thing when the case has been submitted earlier, I rejoice that a state accountant is not required to be a legal accountant. However, it says here that a government accountant has an understanding of accounts. I would like to ask: Did the committee discuss what knowledge was involved? Is it some deep knowledge? Now I have an excellent knowledge of accounts. I could prove some degree of test in it and something like that, even though I did not earn an account for a long time, I worked on it in the past. What does this mean? It's very important to me that this is so much thoughtless, not narrow, that it is of enormous importance to me. Then I would like to ask the same question: Didn't the committee think of changing the name of the law and talking about a government accountant, president or president of a government accountant or what they want in it, not talking about a state accountant?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u45	V.E.G. President. About the second question why. The senator for the name of the office and the law was then not a loud discussion within the committee. I think there was a general feeling that there was no basis for this change within the committee. Now I think it's more of a taste than a matter of deep meaning. There would have been a way to choose a course that would have been possible. A senator mentioned, but for me there is no basis for this change. However, concerning the appropriate conditions, I think that for the members of the committee, the very idea was to expand it, so that when referred to as the one selected for the job, the person should have knowledge of the accounts should be interpreted widely, it will be considered to the relevant person's knowledge of accounts, which is an important part of the work of state accountants and Constitutions. Of course, the will of the Committee is clear when it is looked for legalization and when other aspects such as knowledge of government and management experience are taken into consideration, it is thinking that there are more factors than just accurate knowledge of revision and accounting in narrower terms that humans are looking for.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u46	A respectable president. I welcome this explanation and stress that these discussions show that there is a greater understanding of this subject. There may be some unnecessary things in my life, but I would have felt that it would be right to change the name of my office too. I'm celebrating, sire President, the change that has been made on how to file a report request because there was a little bit narrow on the motion they were, there to be members of a council or members of Congress. Now it is clear that nine senators can come together to ask for a report, and they do not need to ask a king or a priest if they can. I think it's a big improvement. I'd also like to say, sir, a respectable president, since the committee's opinion - it's a very cool committee opinion, I think -- that it must be respected and taken into account that the government accountant or director of the Agency is independent of their jobs, the Agency is independent, and it's true, but sometimes I feel like a human being is going through independence so that the Agency can do whatever it wants. I think, now, if it comes to a request from nine senators who are approved at the Hall for the Agency to do one or another, there's a pretty strong reason that the Agency, or its director, a public accountant, says: "No, I'm independent and I don't have to do this, I just decide it myself. In other words, I want to emphasize that I feel that it matters to me that neither must humans take independence to extremes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u47	V.E.G. President. That's exactly the tip of the question. A senator on this point. I think it's the common understanding of all of us that it takes a lot to come to see the state accountant refuse to receive a report requested by the council. I'd think the two proposed means of changing the administrative and monitoring committees, i.e. On the one hand, the board of directors and monitoring committees request a report or nine members of the Senate's approval by a vote in a Senate hall should include filtering out unprovoked or unsatisfactory requests. So we can say that the serious request from the council must be answered by the state accountant. But independence is also important. It is important that a government accountant can evaluate it according to his work and the legal requirements for the office and the Agency's work. Of course, there is a line dancing. On the other hand, the state rethinker is a special confidant of the council and works in its behalf, but on the other hand, I don't think we want to see that the council or after the events are more than a section of Congress or more of a certain committee give a public opinion order on how it works. There is a line dance, and it tests judgment on both sides, both for the members of the reports and for a government accountant when he assesses how he acts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u48	Madam President. I'm not staying with this case for long. I just want to come in on it here. When it was here at the council last, I discussed this matter and expressed my joy with its conclusions. The committee has made a good decision to reach a good conclusion that most of the at least About the concerns I had on the case. This has been resolved, and the committee has come to a good conclusion. I thoroughly discussed whether it should be called a state accountant or the Agency itself, with the reference that this is also discussed with the Director - General, who is concerned about that director. This may be similar. However, I did not feel that there was a lack of logic as to how a state accountant works, that advice continues to determine his salary. Then the council is quoted as stating the salary of an agent, and it has not been considered to be a reason to change this, despite being an associate of the Generals, i.e. That the whole council shall appoint his reward, and they shall take into account the judges of the Supreme Court, I remember. So I could not understand why this is not done in a similar way to that of an agent, for I view General Agent and State accountant as a similar member of the council. Both are members of some sort of confidentiality of the council. That's all I felt wasn't directly reasoned with. I also think it's good that the Presidency Commission nominates or ships it for six years. The bill suggests that he will be elected from the council and that he may be reimbursed once. I think it's very important that we deal with these factors, that each working time is not longer than 12 years. Then knowledge will not be lost, and people will not at the same time be trapped in such an elaborate and delicate work. We discussed much whether the individual should be a legal accountant or not. I have to say, I'm very pleased with the conclusions because I believe that if we had kept choosing only accountants, we would have been very tight to the point where we would not just have limited it to the accountants, which is no huge group in our little country, but would have been left out by many things that are listed here, including In terms of the administrations and other aspects of it. Although the nature of the matter is in accordance with the accounts and the government and the like, I think we can find people of more classes than a class of accountants who are less qualified to do this work. I am very pleased with that change. The National Reexamination Programme covers the implementation of budgets and the Agency is to be members of the Parliament to assist in the work on the financial issues of the state. It is good to make a distinction with the Parliamentary committees in particular. It is always better to have it clearly in the law rather than to have any interpretations of what falls into existence and what is not so that these laws can be clearly sharpened by what is expected to be done by a government accountant and by his staff. I also feel improved by hiding a management and monitoring committee rather than the Presidency Commission requests for reports and such. This is in line with the new order of our committees that the review board has it out of place first and last. I think that's an improvement. And like a cot. As for the Senate Court, it is wise not to close it in its own form, as the idea was, that members of Congress or committees would have to accept it wholely. It will be locked in more than one part of each period if this is the case, especially when it is time for members of the Parliament. I think it's good to be able to include even transnational requests in asking for such reports. So there's a lot of things I like pretty good there, and like what kind of reports we're talking about. Here again and again it is being put into words made by state accountants and his people. They perform various tasks, e.g. for primary follow-up reports and final reports, but it is good that you can request that too. It will be discussed in how a government accountant should handle matters, especially in cooperation or in the activities of an agent. They explain well here and go to business or to financial matters. Of course, a government accountant can suggest changes in legislation and other laws, but he does not go to the role of an agent except in absolutely exceptional circumstances and in those very cases with that formula. This refers to an introduction in the reports. I would've liked to see it as you would have seen in the opinion of the committee. I agree with the wording used here that this may be the result of increasing the legal discipline of the Committee that reports appear there first because the State Accounter often comes to our financial committee, especially because of various follow-up reports and touches most of the activities of the state. Then you might find it wise to discuss the matter and ask questions before the report is submitted. Then members of Congress and members of Congress should be able to be informed through their representatives and to learn what the matter is, of course, in various ways. In Norway it is done this way, but less and more - it is said here, but in Sweden it is similar to here, and Denmark is quite different. In praxize, it is possible to do so, but the committee prefers to do so, even if it is not legalized here. But I'd quite like to see it. It is also good to be sure that State Accounting is not subject to anyone's work. It is very important that we do so, just as members of the Parliament are not subject to the Commission. Then there is the proper standards of the staff to ensure neutrality. It's very important to get it in here. So it is with us senators and others who work in the administrations that you often have to consider your own qualifications. There have been differing opinions about this, but it may be inevitable to change it. Perhaps there is no other way, if it is possible, than for the party to do it on its own. I wondered, " What do we mean by a government accountant's decision on the use of his administrative resources? ' The economic and effectiveness of the government's institutions and companies is being discussed with them, that the donations provide themselves and that the result is the result of the policy. I don't quite understand what's meant, but I know why. A manager may be able to explain to me what is being meant by delinquency. A government accountant does not rush into every section in all of his books; rather than reevaluating all of that as a subject per year. I'll throw it out here. But I don't think I have it any further. I'm very pleased with this bill so complete, and I think there's a lot of improvement, even though I've put in here some particular material that could be placed mostly in the Pracian except in the dress code.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The above opinion reflects in itself that there were many opinions discussed in the work of the Committee that did not necessarily lead to changes. Nevertheless, regarding a few things, we felt that it was important to discern the viewpoints that arose. I would also like to stress that because of the position of the State Reconnaissance and the nature of the work then, we at the Committee felt very important to talk us down on the common conclusion rather than to settle with a strong measure of opinion in that relationship, as it turned out, so that all members of the committee would trust to accept the committee's opinion even if we could say so, there were differences in the matter. About a few things. A senator mentioned them I would like to say regarding the salary and the conclusion that we were looking forward to the general rule of making decisions about the salary and the standing of the highest office in all aspects of the government, the judiciary, the executives, the executives, the executives, and the legislators and we thought it would actually be better than to associate it indirectly with a certain group of government officials, who still submit to the decision of the Council, because the Board of Justice determines the Supreme Court's salary of Justice. We thought it was a little bit of a hook. For other things, I expect to introduce them in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u50	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is very important in such a big case, I agree, to account for the views to be broken, they were also tore up here in the discussion when the case came up. The nature of the matter, according to one estimate, is that not necessarily everything that any members of the committee want to achieve is possible. But I'm saying it's important to do this kind of work, we're here with a member of Congress, state of peace. I think there's something we completely agree on. That's why, like a cot. A senator said, because of the work it is important. In terms of elections it is quite true that it is a court order that determines the salary of the Supreme Court, the Committee to President taking into account an agent. Then, of course, you ask yourself about a citizen's accountant. I'm reviewing the law on an agent, and I don't know what that case is, whether or not there are ideas of making the same decision about his salary, i.e. ... toa manure. In view of the reasoning involved here, it would not seem unnatural to me to have something consistent. I thought it had to be, both sides in the same place. I don't think that's going anywhere else. Of course, I understand that making such a decision is always difficult for members of Congress to make, so something is being connected. Then it may simply be a way out of the way of making the decision directly under the advice of the men.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u51	V.E.G. President. First of all, I can honestly say for myself that I had counted both routes available. But like I said before and what. A senator also went on to say that it was a small way of making pay and remuneration depend on the decision made by a senator without directly referring to the law. I don't know for myself what the situation is about a review of an agent's law, that's not the case for us at the council, so I can't tell myself whether this point has been considered in this context. About file requests from the council, huh? A senator came into it in his case, I think we've found a nice way, two ways, to request reports from a state accountant. It is still to be seen which route will be carried out, but in advance, and I think that in the work of the Committee, it may have been generally calculated by a management and monitoring committee, but the second would be the way for non-computers to present themselves if a board of administrations and monitoring committees did not respond for some reason to make the situation clear. As for the presentation of the reports, we looked forward to it, as mentioned above, in Norway it is in the form described in the committee. However, these reports are considerably fewer than in this country, and thus they may be more difficult to put together the endpoint in the work of a government accountant on the report and then a meeting of the Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we also look at the possibility that there may be a period when the committee is not at work and then it would be a little inhibitory if it was absalt in the law text that a presentation was not to be conducted except for a management and surveillance committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u52	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this. What he ended up with, I agree with it completely, of course, there can be inhibitory, and the reports, of course, are extraordinary numbers on all state institutions and businesses, so it may be an insurmountable task in itself to take formal report at a meeting with a public accountant. It may not be possible to do so. The question, though, is, Is there any exception? As I said before, it could be in the praxize, so to some extent, the committee will always be pleased to take some specific factors and find out before the report appears. This could be one way, whether in regard to financial matters or in other matters, although most surfaces now involve the financial affairs of the State. There might be a chance of that, I think. Of course, I understand that it may be a bit complicated to do so. As mentioned here, far fewer reports are available in Norway. But as I said before, I'm happy with the bill that most of the time, so I'm expecting nothing more than me to support it here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-05-18-112.u53	A respectable president. I'd like to be happy to know that this matter has come to pass. It's been on the board of administration and monitoring committees for at least two affairs, and it's been very happy that it's taken out by a joint committee. A government review is an enormously important institution, and it is important for us who work at the legislature and especially if we are going to take our own position seriously, since this is really where we are getting information, assessments of affairs, information and data that we cannot achieve. I've been very pleased with the way a board of administrations and monitoring committees have taken up this council reports for the National Review Committee. The first speaker was wondering how to report them to the committee. Then it may be right to state that every report is prepared and reviewed by a management and monitoring committee. Some are very small follow-up reports, but this is not a matter of choosing and rejecting the committee. All reports are submitted. The Committee receives the Ministry, the Office, even, and the Government Accounting often has a very good and helpful discussion of the reports. The idea was considered that the reports should set up a administrative and monitoring committee before it was published officially and clearly. The point was discussed in that regard. It was also discussed whether a National Review Board should provide their reports for a management and monitoring committee before publishing them so that they would have some kind of presentation before they were fully prepared. It was discussed only on the committee. I had a view that, in view of the decision to be completely independent and independent of their jobs, it could be a disrepute if a management and surveillance committee goes something into a report that is not ready and even making some comments. Rather, it would be to accept reports that are at some point due to disagreement and to take up the discussion when the report is completed. Then I'm thinking about the independence of state reexamination, which is extremely important. I am very happy that the changes made in the subject that the head of Government Accounting should have legalized as an accountant because it severely limits our small country the choice we already have for a new government accountant. Certainly there is a chance that legal accountants can do that work very well, provided that they also have management experience and other advantages. However, it cannot be excluded from a qualified person who has a good knowledge of government management or even government politics, financial institutions and what they are now, although not a legal accountant. In the countries we compare with ourselves, this is not usually required. There are three state accountants in Sweden, and none of them are legal accountants. However, it says itself that such knowledge must exist in the Agency. This was different. I'm not gonna have this any further. I just wanted to come up here as an officer of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, and I'm glad we finally take the case to the 2nd. and expect nothing but to go through the council quickly and quickly. I've finished my case, Madam President.
