ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u1	V.E.G. President. One of the extra products of the current U.S. National Bank was a special generosity for bank workers who were transferred by about 1% of the Bank to a gift when it was formed after a collapse. A few days ago, there was a little news that the Lands Bank insisted on buying its own stock, but when it became more comfortable to look there for stock that was given to employees at its time. It is estimated that they will now be able to sell these letters for 2 billion years, this 1,400 hundred. That's about what I'm talking about. 1.5 million each. There is a possibility that the managers of this group will likely be able to sell their letters and bring up the scaffolding of 56.5,5 billion. K. This is one of the wet barrels still in the face of the Americans in the wake of the crash. It seems that the number of workers there received this large part of a gift at the time has accomplished tremendously well in giving the Kingdom property, such as the cities and others. No wonder they now walk away with a prize after a job well done. Of course, it is intolerable for a group to walk away with the Kingdom's belongings in this way. I used to work with a granary official who used such things as this: It is easy to be generous with other people's money.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u2	The President did not agree that after the end of this program, there will be a 15 - minute break for a congregation meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u3	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss our activities in general at the council, considering that there's a tremor in our discussions and jobs here because the state radio began the formal campaign yesterday. Then it has been a great pleasure, I must say, to observe the spirit that has been over the council recently, and it is good for a new senator to experience such an end, although it is certainly under very special circumstances. I will not be so bold as to evaluate the level of tension or how it is presented in the discussion. However, the committees and members of the council are a number of major issues, and it is important that we be careful as always. Because I mentioned elections and the thrill points in our work have the highest. During this term, the government has accomplished a great deal in many major matters. First of all, I'm going to mention a threesome budget, and I have to say that it's unfortunate that we're not about to contribute the fourth law. Second, the correction to which we owe our home is severely reduced, and this is an increase in savings. Third, we are taking the second step in emissions. I'm wondering, Mr President, what future voters are going to think, whether we're going to do all the systems or whether we're going to continue working with big issues and stability. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u4	V.E.G. President. The government's future policy on obstetrics has been proposed. The main objective of the changes required is to provide children together with both parents as well as to enable parents to coordinate family and employment. To this end, it is emphasised on the least interference between homes when parents lay down jobs on maternity vacations to care for their children. This is an important goal, and it is the responsibility of us politicians to accomplish it. Today, during the past few years, fewer fathers use a common right of parents to birthworm. At the same time, fewer fathers make full use of their three months of birth leave. This decrease has taken place since the loss of the highest stocks of stocks in 2009. This must be done by politicians, and in the future policy of the government of obstetrical affairs, there are some suggestions for improving the situation. In the current law, a parent receives ororal pay, which accounts for 80% of the total wage in a given period, but never more than 370 you can buy. per month. In the future, parents are suggested to have 300 pulses. of the non-mutated and 80% of the reference revenues of more than 300 you have. per month. In addition, the maximum pay of the maternity vacation is suggested to increase up to 600 of yours. during a certain time period. It is also suggested that the birthworm be extended in stages, allowing a total of birthworm at a labour market to extend from nine months to twelve months. It is expected that the length will take place in stages with the goal of determining whether a parent can have the right to five - month birth or to pay birth strength, while the shared right of a parent will be two months. We want to protect and have done these matters. The first law that a child enjoys not only a mother but also a father was established at the highest level. former social minister, Páll Pétursson's son, a candidate. [[The president calls.]] It is important that we continue to ensure this equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u5	A respectable president. I will never miss this task at the council to discuss the activities of the council. The order of the great Generalis is not on many fish these days. It's mostly because the government is in some sort of existence crisis. We will see what new major issues are coming in, usually in the media before we know it. Why don't we just take it? The government situation is to make it so well to put it all through, preferably as the government wants it, do not change any letters or items. It is as if the government were to act like a dorky dog. This, a respectable president, I call a freckle-wreaking bitch of the worst kind. The time has come for the government and the government to sit down and see what they want to do. This is not to say that it all goes through the high Council. It's Congress. There is a set of deadlines we are trying to work with. A respectable president. Will be a kitchen day, for example. Monday? [[The point is, it can't...]] Are there any changes? Do we expect the Council's work programme to turn into such a tenth or twenty? Is it not time for us to start working together for a little while and try to find common conclusions about how we will complete this council? As it is now, it's kind of enough. I don't quite understand what we're doing here. I think it's more of a part that's going to truck it all through, no more than anybody else. The Senate's work is involved. It's not a government stand to blame, it's a government in a state of existence under the highest authority. Prime Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u6	On this occasion, the president would like to have a kitchen date on Monday as previously announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u7	Mr. President. I'm going to be like the one before me about the Senate and how all of this has come forward. Here we are grueled by the baseless budget, which is certainly positive and we want to have a baseless budget, but on the contrary we are delaying very important infrastructure structures, and it's been done for the three years, into the future, and then quarter before elections, it's being made up for elections, as in a transport program that has not been supplied by the Committee for three years, not until now, and is making big changes. That in itself is good because it is necessary to build the wood, but it certainly smells because there are elections coming. We've got a huge case here, the LIN bill, the multi-talked, pension fund. I was at a local financial convention, where people were very concerned that their rights will be sold for them and that they won't come to any remuneration that can be trusted. A lot of people did. They're trying to push through issues that the government was going to end in four years. It's just that way. Now, giant system changes are falling in and they're not supposed to be allowed to have a proper conversation. It's unacceptable. It's supposed to be that way in all major system changes, and I hope that the future council will make any who in any case will ever take over the form of a parapolitic conversation, as we did in the foreign law. It is important to consider large issues in which there is an enormous number of people in our system of things. Of course, for the Congress, it is true that the government groups agree on very few things, and that is why cases are late taken care of by the government groups and into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u8	A respectable president. People often play with the language of the pirata by acting as if we were going to destroy society and destroy all systems and divide them over something random. For the reason that we are following, probably later today, to vote on a case that is controversial whether it will last. The Constitution of the Republic of Iceland is worth remembering that we have been discussing the issues for many years, and we have concluded that the Council has not yet established a constitution. This discussion has been for a very long time. 1 1 1. The bill of the Board of Directors and also the bill of the Commission and Commission, requested for the 141th Council, is presented by permission of the President: The European Court of Auditors is responsible for making national rights that include the expeditation of government to the international institutions involved in peace and economic cooperation. The head of the state must always be reversible. The law shall set out in more detail the favor of government under the national rights contract. The General Assembly agreed to validate a contract which includes the office of government, shall be subject to a national law for approval or innuendo. The results of such national pay are binding. This is where I was reading from the bill of the management and monitoring committee. The idea of recording a new constitution that contains a provision that has long been missing is not a demolition of the system. The constitution is not to be taken off and replaced for nothing. It is absolutely shameful that at all times, the Allied didn't go to discuss the Constitution with the seriousness and priorities it deserves, regardless of whether this bill or anything else. If they want something else, okay, let's talk about it. This has occurred only in a closed committee that eventually did nothing to this particular group of cases, i.e. expedient state power. The responsibility is Generalis. There is nothing to blame for the chaos followed by the vote. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u9	V.E.G. President. I'd like to begin with this team for the council's work to celebrate, for the president is going to take a break later. I think it is very important for members of Congress to arrange for their next discussion. I want to like others who have been discussing the work of the council today because, as we all know, there are only a few days left in the council program, i.e. We'll have until Thursday next week to get things done according to the work plan. However, new issues are still coming in, and new issues are still being measured, and they are still being presented, not just matters to be shown in, but matters that I hear nothing more than to be prepared to complete at this council. Under there are even. A huge case requiring a very tricky response. In particular, I would like to mention changes in government Penitentiary Acts and social security laws that also involve changes in pensions from the public insurance system. This refers to system changes in two huge issues involving the forwarding of people. I worry that the matter is not being reviewed in general and that the council simply does not give time to handle these matters in a way that needs to be done. [[The president calls.]] It's totally unacceptable that we do such work when we have people's forwards in our hands. [[The president calls.]] It simply takes more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u10	A respectable president. It's a good work ethic here. With Icelanders, we can be proud of the way we welcome refugees who have been selected for the country each year and are estimated to be due to this year 431 million. K. Most people adapt well, and it is important to conform to society and become participants in professional and cultural life. Another group of refugees that constantly travel to the country is one of the most young men that come here without passports. By means of a new foreign law, Generals' messages are clear to this group, and they are returning. In 2014, the total number of trustees was 175, while the estimated number of inmates is 700 in the current year. That's a 98% increase from the previous year. The sum of money from non-employers is $7,800. daily, i.e. $24,000. every month, 2.8 million a year, while minimum galactic pension is 212,766 k.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u11	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u12	Funds give 640 million to the National Institute for Refugees, with a total of 556 million. A total of 1,200 million this year. A respectable president. [[Way too much...]] 1,200 million, as it would cost to run the clinics of Southland's clinic at the Western hospital for five years, where there is no operating room and no maternity aid. [[Who's the senator doing...?]] [[Up front.]] From 2011, the cost of shelterers increases from 60 million to 1,200 million in 2016. [[Up front.]] In the past three years, the legal cost of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for Refugees has been 174 billion. K. and the budget will be added to this team at 55 million. A respectable president. With new laws about foreigners, Icelanders did not listen to the experience of our neighbors. This hall speaks of a good work ethic. [[The president calls.]] Is that not also true in this case? [[Get in front of me, Off.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u13	Mr. President. I am not ashamed to follow this final talk. One asks: " What is the purpose of such a saying to serve? As to how fast expenses are getting, we are dealing with the huge problem of refugees and landless people worldwide. It would have been closer if it hadn't been. A senator would have talked about this from the other side. [[Up front.]] Is this the new spokesman of the Independence Party for this category after winning a South American re-election repute, the Unnur Konráðsdóttir Kons Councildóttir who spoke differently about this matter? But I was going to rejoice that when government officials come up here, forwards, and independences, they would give off their baseless financial laws and take it as a great accomplishment. I am very pleased with this presentation, for the fact is that the present government received a government fund in equal terms. By 2013, after the greatest collapse of history, the state's funds had been leveled. Good for a third hundred billion bucks. Improvements compared with the results of a 2008 state bill, which was the last year when the Independence Party was responsible for a trust fund. That's right. We made up the money of the state funds for a total of 3,100 billion during the last term. The government received an unauthorized budget of state funds. In other words, we should thank them for not taking him to a corner again. Isn't it? That's what you're so proud of, that you haven't run a government fund again in a corner. Please continue as long as you can. I'm going to thank you very much. The prime minister woke up from the hibernation, and it has been scheduled for a special day. So we know where we stand against it. However, it leaves much of the material left in the wall, handling what is necessary to take whatever steps we have in the few days we have to take so that it can be chosen. [[The president calls.]] It is obvious: Only a fraction of the major issues now in the hands of the council will be dealt with by some normal process. We must be realistic about this and have respect for the fact that this is not going to happen in a course of ill - mannered work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u14	President. No compromise is as pathetic as an ancient moon, and setting up two groups of society against one another instead of facing the reasons why older, sick, or desperate ones will have to live under difficult circumstances. It is simply a poor priorities for the wealth we share here. The case of the senator who spoke before, why? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson's son, is exactly like the case of those who refused to receive Jews in need and sent them back. I am sorely offended to listen to this kind of language and to be sorely offended that it's a man sitting here at the General Assembly for one of the largest categories in the country. So I would like to ask other members of the Independence Party if this is a general attitude on that town. I wanted to point out that we have a few days to go, and the government comes in here with an enormously complex case, a fundamental change in our community like, for example. large changes in the pension system, which have not been adequately discussed in the community. It is clear that the bills were written in a very special way within a few weeks before they were submitted. So I encourage a president to take the initiative and priorities and take out the issues that are clearly issues that can be handled between Congress and election seasons, and to take out matters that are clearly strong and broadly opposed, whether here in the privacy or out in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u15	A respectable president. Then we have heard the message that it is why. paritaprevir Thanks to J. Sigfússon's success in this ideal period, J. [["No, no,...]] We're based on his work. We can review how critical they have been during this terms to improve the interests of households and businesses in this country, where there was a sharp turn from the policy of the last government. It speaks of the government as having an existential crisis, a respectable president. It's not a government in an existence crisis that's here on the table with a large bill that's taking great care of older citizens who are called upon for certain solutions. It is a position of government in a crisis of existence that wants to keep this group from making extra funds for the council and a largely improved interest in this group. For decades, the loan fund of Icelandic students has been struggling to make changes in that system, and it has been successful in making a bill that the students all celebrate. But it was the lesser part of this council that prevented it from being measured for the bill ready for us so that the council could win it in the summer. Of course, we will respond to the call of students and end these matters. It is another example of one of the biggest steps in maintaining stability in the future, altering the criteria of pay markets, and cutting a knot that has long been trying to solve. Of course we'll finish it. There is no way to speak as if this was a new case, that this case has been won for months at the centre of the labour market, among these movements that have all signed this agreement. Will the council begin to reason with these people who have been studied? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[The president calls.]] She's coming here with something she said she'd finish and we're going to finish. [[The president calls.]] If we need more days at the council until October, then we will take our days to complete these vital matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u16	Mr. President. There's been a debate over the administrative qualifications at the introduction of the European Commission. I've made a strong argument, and more senators, that it doesn't pass the constitution. One of the council's main advisers on these matters, Dr. Björg Thorarensen, professor of the administrative court, has agreed with this. Now it has been reported that another professor of administrative studies has taken up and lived with exactly the same language. Stefán Stefánsson, who for decades has been the most respected executive in Iceland, stated in the morning that he agrees that this operation is taking the largest part in expansive authority to foreign institutions since the EEA contract was made. He placates that these emeritus of government by saying: BjörgWe agree completely on this. He still hardens his stand by repeating in the following way: They are not to pass laws unless they pass the constitution. Here we are faced with a law that is now stated not to mess with the constitution, which literally violates the constitution. Will the Council do so without calling these people to a meeting and having them discuss that argument? What does the Council offer? Yes, yesterday there was a meeting at the Board of Directors and Control Committee. With who? With the author of the route, which these scholars say is not effective. In other words, the man who has the transfer that leads to violation of the constitution is the only man called from among scholars to discuss the matter. What kind of work are these? There is no way that this case will be handled here without proper payment. [[The president calls.]] This includes talking to these administrative experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u17	A respectable president. I encourage us to discuss matters of the trustees and other concerns and to take care of them. The problem in Europe is our problem too, and we are bound by international agreements and we want to be. Of course, while it was important to pay close attention to developments and to learn from other sources, let us approach this discussion with careful thought. I have to wonder at that when it happened. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask is coming here and he says it's been returned to a baseless budget. I just have to admit that I don't recognize the work of the branch committee that they were at a loss when we received them. For everyone, that was a promise that had to be fulfilled. Some were postponed, others were tried out of government emphasis, such as in health matters, and then I refer to a fine deal that the last government made with the private members of the medical system and I refer them to a dentist. To fulfill that contract and, at the same time, to hold down unauthorized financial laws, they had to set priorities. I don't like it if people are now getting themselves involved in it, at last, when there's an agreement between all the parties involved in the pension business, finally when we can have a comparable right between the people of the country, whether it's public or in the private sector, I don't think it's a good thing if you're trying to stop them from working. This has been discussed for decades. Finally a landing, at last these parties meet, and it would be a disaster if the Allied Congress would respond to this situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u18	V.E.G. President. Following recent approval of market treaties in society, the horrors of these contracts that they normally are not, and this debate has gone through a wide range of ignorance throughout society. The head of this initial action competition must be the head of Haga, who called the domestic contracts a nationally fortified zoo. It is out of the question that a man in a responsible social position would walk himself as thoroughly as this fine man did with his remarks and in effect judge himself from the stage of public discussion in Iceland with these few comments. Understandably, the director is a bit stressed and frustrated these days. He sees for the first time in his career to get a live competition after the New Year's Eve. He must be a little worried about that, and that even appeared. in that he and his colleagues are now in a rapid flight from the company where they work. They've been selling things they own in the company, and it just so happens that the family of this fine manager went away the other day, with 300 million in profit from stock sales in this same company, which is about, if I remember the right, the profit of the Galacasse in one year, i.e. the last time Lavalsama made a profit from her business. I say again: It's amazing that a man in a position like the Director of Haga should talk to his customers like that because farmers are the only biggest customers in this business chain. I repeat, men who do this in a discussion in Iceland decommission themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u19	Mr. President. There's a door-to-door vote on a case I think will break the constitution. There is evidence that the government managers seem to agree that this interpretation is correct. Þarg Thorarensen, professor of the administrative rights, has described her as believing that this is more expedient than the Constitution can bear. It was claimed here in the house yesterday that she rowed on her own in that subject. It is now discovered that Stefán Pár Stefánsson, also a professor of administrative rights and one of the most respected expert in the field, agrees with Björg. He feels that this is the greatest government service since we walked in the EEA. He says: I agree with Björg, this is not the case that can be resolved, and there is no need to do so. There is no meeting that stands before us, making it necessary for us to finish it now. I don't think it's the council to fail to plan here knowingly to go to a language approved by both senators and experts at the University of Iceland that have already shown the violation of the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] We made an oath to the Constitution, and we are under oath. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u20	Mr. President. I am forced to express a measure of concern over the practices of the General Assembly, in view of the fact that, after the release of this committee, two reputable political experts have taken place and expressed serious doubts about the continuation of the General Assembly. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer believes that Stefán Stefánsson, a legal professor of the Alduke's case, is not successful while a specific system is in place to determine whether a law is a constitution, and he quotes parallel judges from other countries. Mr. President. I'm really worried, I have to say, by such means, that we're here to take a stand on a matter, no matter what our opinion on its contents, since such serious doubts have been asked that we are doing the right thing. That's what I think's responsible for.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u21	A respectable president. The conduct of the governments on this matter has become quite bizarre. The meeting to settle the case was held this morning. They're trying to shovel this case against the unscrupulous and irrational without getting these esteemed statesmen for the committee. Björg Thorarensen and Stefán Stefánsson have both declared that they do not consider this to be a restricted constitution. I've arranged for a meeting of the management and monitoring committee to follow up on the way that the committee would combine the changes to the constitution. We have this in our hands, the elections are on our own, and I made a suggestion there that we would agree on the deed to a constitution which would be available for the application of Congress solutions with the support of all classes. This proposal received the votes of all the opposing parties, so they declared themselves prepared to cooperate with the administration parties of extenuating regulations that everyone could accept. The case is in the hands of members of the government, and they seem determined to violate the warnings of the best - known experts. [[The president calls.]] There is no need for that to happen, there is nothing that would sound in this case beyond what the election would give us the basis for having the standards on this matter, that we can finish the campaign. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u22	A respectable president. It was concluded by the World Parliamentary Commission on a nine - bound report to the council that lack of professionalism was more likely to result in economic collapse and emergency laws in the administration system. Therefore, it must be a very special concern in the manner in which the president of the Generals presents the big issue of opinion and in which the European Union will continue to close banks in Iceland. So far since I started my work here 13 years ago, if there's any information on Iceland's Constitution, the answer has been contrary to political parties at the council: Ask Björg. If she's not here, you ask Stefán Már. Now they have stepped forward and have declared that this is not working. Will the Council continue? It's not possible, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u23	President. I object to this treatment in an equally important matter. As we have seen, there is no reason to push this case through today. It can live between terms. The committee that took the case for meeting this morning. It's not a minority/partier thing. It is a case in which the nation's sovereignty is exorbitant. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said yesterday, into a blue-black area. That's enough because we're always going into the republics' gray areas. Me and the senators take an oath when we first take our place here at the General Assembly to respect this constitution. That's why I want President to take this case off immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u24	V.E.G. President. First, I wanted to make sure that the anxieties we have experienced during the last days have been well along. It was the subject of a board of administrations and monitoring committee, which got the case for spring treatment and gave off last week to discuss these topics. This was done, and a review was given to the State Department to address these issues. The views and arguments that have been presented in the case during the past two days or so have been in place and, among other things, led two members of the Board of Directors and Control Committee to give their report in advance. Now at the council - men could have made comments on this case at a much earlier stage, all views have been ahead of time, it's taken a look at them in the review of the Board and Control Committee and into the subject of the matter I have to enter in a second speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u25	Mr. President. It is tragic that this situation has taken place, and it has done nothing but worsen in these last days. It has been a long time before, for years, that this was coming and that it would always be very difficult for the Icelandic constitution. Yet we are here. How could this happen? There they have a great responsibility that has wasted time for the past three years, and we are just as ill at the hands of today. What's the guidance we're giving to the council members who're not sitting on a board and board of directors or State Affairs Committee? It's expected to be regarded by a board of administrations and monitoring committees. What does it say, by permission of the President? ▪ Some members of the committee believe that the matter will test the long - term constitution of the Constitution in terms of sovereignty and that it will test its highest limits, but it allows the legislature to be passed on to the legislature. Other committees believe that this is beyond 2 gr. Constitutions allow... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Part of the group, some and others, admits that this is a test test for the highest level, but hopefully escapes. The others say no, it's too far. [[The president calls.]] In that case, the main heavyweightweights of our administration rights are saying, "This is going too far, it's going too far.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u26	A respectable president. On the basis of the EEA Convention, a panel of four State Department experts concluded by a committee study in July 1992 that the contract contained within the authority of the 21st Article. the Constitution, but at the same time that the development of the contract was not completed, changed the evaluation. The one mentioned here is Stephen Stefán Stefánsson. Now he has stepped forward to agreeing with Björg Thorarensen that this is a power hall where there is no room within the constitution. Isn't it true that we're slaving, reviewing this case, and that the candidates in this room no longer yearn for authority in the constitution and change in it? We need to make adjustments in order to do this well. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking you again: why don't we just roll around and gently step to the ground?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u27	A respectable president. During the treatment of this case, Professors Björg Thorarensen and Már Stefánsson of 2012 were used for a limited deed. In these last days, it has been found that these major statesmen and management experts are concerned that this case is incompatible with a constitution. As a member of the Parliament, my main source of guidance in my work is my conscience and my oath to the Constitution of Iceland. In the case of doubt, the Constitution will always enjoy the doubt. Therefore, I agree with others that there is no other way than to oppose this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u28	President. That's exactly what happened. paritaprevir The Birgir of an Ármannsson, all known and long known for many years, that this would be a very difficult case and the limit to a constitution. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible why representatives of the Government Committee of the Constitution who had discussed four points in two or three years ago said: There is no way that authority to give government authority will be one of these four factors. How on earth did the people come to think of this? Like what? Ármannsson Everyone knew that it was time for us to deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u29	V.E.G. President. This is not the first case in which there is a disagreement about the implementation of a constitution. This case has been reviewed for a long time, and all the evidence has been handled well. On the basis of the EEA Convention there was a disagreement between experts on whether this agreement was on the head of the constitution. We need to take a stand on this matter and appreciate it. We have now done so, and we have considered these arguments well. There is nothing new in this matter in that sense. We just go over it, we've done it, and we have each of us to take a stand on it, as we do in all other matters and have done for decades. There's nothing new about this. There are a number of prime signals, so we can be in doubt, and we feel that the Constitution's longitude is tested. We need to take a stand, and there is nothing else to do about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u30	Mr. President. I come up here to make a comment to the President's conference board having a program for a vote bill thought to be of Iceland's leading authority experts at the board conflicting with Article 2. Iceland's constitution. I don't understand why the case can't be held off until these experts have been referred to as members of the council that have discussed this matter. I'm very not comfortable with the fact that the President has offered here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders that we are going to vote for a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u31	For this reason, the president wants to say: " This case is a long way, not in months, but years. On April 12, about six months ago, the Senate document that we are about to take sides was submitted to the General Assembly. The case was sent to the management and monitoring committee on May 10, which settled matters five months later, September 14. The nominee we are about to build our stand on was distributed on September 19th. In other words, the Senate has had ample time to prepare the matter. It's clear that this is a problem. It points to a vital point that is the question of the constitution discussed here. In this situation, of course, nothing else is to be done. Congress officials take their stand on the issue and, including, the United States of America, the United States of America. to the Constitution questions that now exist in the discussion on the basis of the work done by the General Assembly itself. Of course, the president will not be a judge of which party is right among members of Congress. That's for voters themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u32	Mr. President. In any case, the highest. It was not until today that the president, and early morning there was a fundamental diagnosis within the educational community, whether this case is in harmony with the constitution. That is when the first two executives suggested an attempt to settle the matter on the basis of the two supporting ways are indicated by the statement: "Now we've looked at the process, and unfortunately it falls on the test. It's the first day that Már Stefánsson says it and the day before Björg Thorarensen says it. In that light, we should examine the matter much more. The Matrix here is knowingly about to vote and in front of him he has the fact that the teachers of most of the lawyers sitting here in the hall say this will break the constitution. What, then, will they do? Are they really going to let the government shove this case against the oath they swore against the Constitution? [[The president calls.]] Senators must recognize what they are confronted with a serious matter. They are about to break their sworn oath on the basis of all available evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to answer that question. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargia, and a respected president of the United States that they have been able to make such comments for a long time. True, it is true, but as the body of Congress knows, meetings are not completed when some major part feels that it is enough but when the process is completed. We still haven't voted on the matter. The Congress does not stop working on matters when it comes to the opinion of the committee. That is why we have three discussions, so we have votes. I'm winding up the argument that we've had a long time to figure out what this case is beyond the fact that with this process, we've become more and more anxious. It tells its own story, a respectable president, and that's why the process is what it is. This is to allow it to happen when there is a basis for it, and now it is. That's why it's not the time to vote on this matter at the moment. As far as there's something standing in some majority of aluminium party here and there it is, at least. A president and a what? Councilmen, that senators must be able to learn. They must be able to change their mind when discussing the matter, and more and more data are available. I'm sure it's all human behavior, except when it comes to politics. [[The president calls.]] Then, suddenly, members of the council should never change their mind and never learn anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u34	Mr. President. I thank the President for speaking clearly about the fact that he wants the matter to go into effect. I'm still willing to object that it will be done right now because it's undisputed that our leading experts say that this case is different from any other issue. This goes further, and it is not as obvious as whether the Constitution and its regulations are being violated if the case is agreed. That is why I find it quite clear that there is a need to postpone a vote and to consider the case better with the experts mentioned here who are our leading experts, since there is no need to do so. What's the hurry, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u35	A respectable president. The only explanation we have heard why this matter needs to be handled today is that there may be some problems in the world that will not be resolved quickly. But the meeting where the case was handled was held this morning, there is no hurry. It is of great interest to note that in view of our best experts'statements, the administrative issue is not interested in standing up in this respect and wanting to speed up this issue, which most likely violates a constitution. From this discussion, I find that the absence of candidate members of the advance party is remarkable. I must call for the government's responsibility that if the case goes through in this way, there will never be any reason from now on to put expedite regulations in the constitution. It has simply been confirmed by the General Assembly that in spite of the regulations of the Constitution, the General shall dismiss authority from the country. Period. [[The president calls.]] I don't agree with that interpretation of Iceland's Constitution. I now declare the responsibility of the prime minister and the management section to put together the interpretation of Iceland's Constitution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u36	President. As shown in the case Hrafn what? Gunnarsson It seems extremely difficult for members of Congress to admit that it is acceptable to change one's mind when better information is available and more detailed information is available. Now we've received information from our main experts in the administration rights. The major part is just going to ignore it as if it just didn't matter, and ignoring that we're going to have the operation of full - consciousness violations. What kind of message is that to the nation? What kind of work is that, Mr. President, even though the case was here for some time? How often do matters go through the council without more than half of the members of Congress know what they're choosing? I've seen it repeatedly and asked the council if they know what they're choosing, but they only say they're on the green button because everyone else is on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u37	Mr. President. Since this is a major case, it should be noted that since 2012 the committee has followed the progress of the matter and the changes it has made. In 2012 a report by Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, and Bjargur Thorarensen, who made very serious comments to the resulting solution to the table and work, both the members of the council and the government from that time, has taken into account by responding to the views set out at that time. That was even. on the basis that Iceland's secretary of finance helped in October 2014 to make a statement as to which the matter would go and what the main theme of the solution would be on top. It was at the joint meeting of the CFO EFTA and the EU. This resolution had been presented and discussed by committees of the council at the time so that they could not act as the solution at this time might surprise them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u38	Mr. President. The length of the spindle and the long - standing opinions of the board are as good as they are. We have had plenty of time to agree on the legal requirements of authority or to follow other routes, to establish a administrative court to determine when laws might conflict with a constitution, or to establish a regular committee of specialist members to provide such an assessment and to be a judicial committee. We have had plenty of time to deal with these demands that have been increasingly common in recent years. That's not gonna make the situation any better, Mr. President, because it's showing that we've been fired here. Here at the Council to take responsibility for handling matters as at least two administration specialists present convincing doubts about standing in a constitution. All right. It is a matter of responsibility to the general assembly. But wouldn't it have been more prudent that the time we've certainly had had been used to bring about the natural process so that we could all be doing the right thing, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u39	A respectable president. There will be no better operation if it has been treated for a long time. Although there is a time pressure from some bank car in Liechtenstein, there will be no better government violations. It's simply so it can't resist Iceland's constitution that the European Union can shut down banks in Iceland. It doesn't matter how you try to bend, they don't get by. Of course, the other would have to be considered completely amazing if the administrative body was to vote on this after the opinion of the head of the professor at the University of Iceland and the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, this morning. Here this morning a 20 - page unsurpassed article was presented to Björg Thorarensen on these Constitutions. It was submitted this morning. I assure you, the majority of the members of the board of directors at the General Assembly have not read that opinion. [[The president calls.]] Will members of the board be associating with the Constitution so that they do not even read the opinion of the executive professor before they take their votes on as big a matter of opinion as they are here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's their responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u40	A respectable president. We use this team, the President's conference board, under a physical discussion today for a very limited time, so I'm going to shorten my case. Clearly, opinions vary among experts. Nevertheless, when the original set was started, we said no, that there was no way, that there would be two effective ways to which the European Union has approved and other members of the EEA Convention. Now that we're at the end of the line, we have to vote on it here as we often do before whether we trust it to be within the warrants we have or not. We have done so many times before, and we need to do it again and again today no matter what we might have done in the past two, five, or ten years. But there's one thing I'm going to give a hell of a warning, and I hear you here, i.e. that one, two and three will just be involved in putting the power agency into the constitution in the next few days. We need to work hard before it is done. [[The president calls.]] The fact is, for many years there has been a way that we have considered to ensure that we associate with the constitution with the respect we have to do, but we finally have to vote according to our own conscience on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u41	A respectable president. We can have differing views about this matter here at the council Hall. I think it's very important, though, that we don't talk down our jobs. There are two committees who have applied themselves to reviewing the issues of opinion that have developed in connection with this matter. We delayed a vote yesterday to find out about it again. The matter has been here for months. We may disagree and vote accordingly, but we stop speaking down the great and good work done here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u42	A respectable president. I agree with it, stop talking it down, and stop talking it down when there's a legitimate controversy over whether it's wrong. The constitution or not. That's what matters. That's what it said. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, whose reputation was published by Björg Thorarensen and Stefán Stefánsson, published in 2012. They are the same individuals that now warn us. We should, therefore, expect to pay attention to them. You're right. A senator says this should not surprise anyone. This discussion has been raised since 1992. There was a warning then. This is part of the EEA discussion, part of the EU discussion, this was in the bill of the Management Board and in the bill of the Commission and Control Committee. This was inferred that the bill of the Board of Directors was taken out there, thanks to what happened. I'm told by a strategists. So it's true, it's not a surprise to anyone. Also, it should not be surprising that it takes a long time to identify the last straw, it takes time for a frog to realize that it's cooked, and then it's too late. Sooner or later, we'll cross this line and we'll need to know it when it takes place. Now we're going to vote and most of the thing expected with a bill that's warned us not to break probably on 2.g. The constitution. [[The president calls.]] We just need time, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Talk about talking down work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u43	A respectable president. I think I just heard that. One prime minister said that people are here talking about extenuating practices and that such regulations need to be handled, that no matter what they say, they need to be thought of. It's been over for years. I've been sitting 50 meetings, or was there 45? And people always say the Specialist Party - I have rarely seen people breathe as easily as it was when the advance said: "No, we don't want any expedients. It had been discussed, talked about it all over, back and forth. Don't tell me there's no such thing as this exposé that could be provided in half an hour. And it would be a professional job, the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u44	A respectable president. This discussion has come to remind me of a little bit of a television program I've been watching lately called Breaking Bad, which many are familiar with. There you cross certain boundaries, and what happens after that is about how far you can get back. I feel like we're in such a discussion here. We have crossed the limit that we have extended the constitution far beyond the limits considered acceptable by scholars. Now we're probably driving so far along that we're breaking it. When we are equally warned by scholars and experts in this field, we should pause and be careful. When I'm at the highest. The prime minister tells us that when it comes to the exuberance, we should also be careful when someone is telling us that we are breaking the constitution and taking a closer look at this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u45	Mr. President. This case emphasizes the importance of having a new constitution approved on the basis of those coming from the Council of Control. Then we wouldn't have been in this dispute. Its constitution is within its limit to keep laws, an institution that would have received such a case for analysis, and to see if there was a constitution. Thus, that situation would have been settled. That constitution would also contain extenuating regulations that would have led to the permission of the General Assembly to follow this stage. But we don't have this new constitution. We have another constitution, which we have sworn an oath to enforce. There is no doubt in my mind that both the current issues and when given to other previous courts in the state, we have been released from the Constitution. The General is here to take a bad step. [[The president calls.]] A case that is not in accordance with the constitution is being agreed. I think it's a dark moment in our history.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u46	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphédinsson is a cunning chess player, and he may have been trying to put some kind of fork in the management board in an effort to bring about some particular political change quickly. But that it is proper to say that when we consider such matters, we set certain standards for them, and we will consider and analyze them as clearly as we can whether they are going beyond what has been done. And when the criteria that have been used in handling similar EEA matters at the council are applied to the aspects of this case, where the Constitution is located, we find that here we are not going beyond what has been done in such cases. We're inside their sources and we're working on a board of administration and monitoring committees, including It means trying to discern these factors. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm convinced that we're not breaking the constitution on this matter. [[The president calls.]] The question of further changes in constitution, including taking into account extenuating rules, not solving all the problems in this relationship, for we still need to eat the kind of food we've already done in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u47	Mr. President. Regardless of the requirement presented here, the facts are that many of the country's major government scholars believe that this case conflicts with a constitution. This alone is sufficient for members of Congress to think very carefully about whether they are ready to support the matter, and it must make us think again and again that this has happened so often that there is no particular reason for us to pause now. There's no argument. The evidence only tells us that we have been driven by a proper process so that a reasonable assessment of whether expeditation of authority conflicts with a constitution can be asked. I think this is a very responsible part for the International Assembly of Iceland, which a few years ago agreed to offer suggestions on improving work practices and including some. to listen in particular to experts'opinion of such matters. [[The president calls.]] Therefore I will violate the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u48	Here, Congress votes to break the constitution, it's just that simple. We're all aware of what we're doing, and it's amazing that the senators don't realize that this is where we're crossing the line. It has been so often said that we have entered a gray area of the administrative and surveillance committee when it comes to the deed. Now we are out of the gray area and into the blue - black zone. I find it sad to think that we have not yet validated the provision of the Constitution made out of a board of administration and surveillance, very well done, which was 111. bill to new administration laws. I just can't believe we haven't fixed this question yet. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The nation's leading experts say we're breaking the constitution. [[The president calls.]] I'm just hoping that when the senators vote here, they have in mind that they are aware, if they say yes to this, to violate the Constitution of the republic to which they swore. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u49	A respectable president. There is no way to argue that this is another question due to the EEA Convention. This is different from all the subjects we have been given to see in recent years. There is nothing better than the fact that the Norwegian thought they had to use their special exuberance to approve it. There is also the possibility that our main experts in the administrative rights that have dealt with this and that it does not agree with the constitution. We have offered a way of seeking a solidarity on a provision that is complex and broadly agreed, which could be placed in a constitution authorized by a limited expositor. It has been refused. If the claim of the greater part is being made, an example is that a simple majority of the Alleglers can, at any time, cancel power to the international institutions. I'm against the fact that this is the way it's done to the Iceland Constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u50	A respectable president. I'd like, because we're going to vote on a majority of the committee's opinion. Foreign Directoring Committee, let it be mentioned in the following comments from the discussions here. The matter was handled very well by a foreign press committee. Since 2012, the matter has been here for the council. It was the last time. The board of directors and monitoring committees for five months where men went very carefully, and I want to thank that committee for their work, for all the opinions involved. To try to argue in the discussion that the matter is being accelerated through the council is a natural contradiction. I also want to pass judgment on myself, as was arranged here. paritaprevir Jón's Birgitta, Jónsdóttir, says that we are here consciously breaking the constitution. What a butterfly. The matter has been reviewed on two occasions. The Senate Committee, there is no one here to vote in this way to say yes, the one here, who believes he is breaking the constitution. I can't wait to hear that kind of language, so I'll wait. A senator to keep it just for himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u51	A respectable president. Me and the Icelanders need a new constitution, that's a lot better. An enforcing constitution does not allow what is being done here. What's being done is that the Specialist Party and the Independence Party, of all political groups, are hiding power from the European Union to close banks in Iceland. The current constitution is not allowed. The General has never resisted a professor's opinion of the administration rights and of the other specialist at Iceland's University of Government rights, when there has been a legal issue with the Constitution. The major part is to run over to double red light, no matter what. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir says. The constitution of the constitution is being violated by knowledge. Here under the roll call, it is proper to bear in mind that the twenty - page report Björg by Thorarensen, submitted in this morning's committee, has not been read by members of the council taking sides in their oath to the Constitution in the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u52	V.E.G. President. This is not the first case to test whether a constitution is established. [[Up front.]] No, it's not the meter. But this has been done well for a long time, and my conclusion is that there is enough room within 2 g. The constitution. That's my evaluation after a long, long, easy time, just really hard. [[The point is, how about...?]] - I have to take you down now. It is just that the change of the constitution that would always be a limited expeditation will also be an issue in the future, whether the new constitution will include the adjustment of the law. We have to step into this, we have to take a stand and look at the points here that have been traced by all the experts who came before the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u53	A respectable president. It's kind of funny to stand here as a dart who is regularly accused of destroying the Constitution when we piranha and others here at the council have been demanding years of a constitution that will assume conditions like this. Not just with a 111. of authority's exposition also holds 62rd. About the law, like what? 4th, including Reykv.. n. came in earlier. It's a long time before we look at the foundations of the system we live in from handling problems like this before they come up. As far as we've had plenty of time - certainly, we're in the final meters, which give us the last meters, a more dignified president, of which this court order is here at the council. New information has come in, it's important. I'm telling the future: If this case causes chaos in the Constitutions, don't blame The Pirates for it, teach a forward party and an independent party to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u54	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u55	A respectable president. I come up here to tell you that since I've been on the Foreign Affairs Committee and I've been tracking this case for a long time, and also on the Economic and Business Committee. The matter first came to the Council of 2012, and it was in the suit that it had actually translated the office of both the European Commission and the judicial authority to the institutions of the European Union. But the Icelandic Constitution said no. The Constitution, which said: No, cannot be asked for such expeditation. The European Union's institutions had to return to the drawing table, and for years they were working on getting it into two solid systems, and now they have. The two supporting systems and the solution we know from EEA contracts have been developed to prevent these institutions from directly from being able to affect in here. They can go through the two supporting systems, through the ESA. They cannot shut down banks in Iceland, although it was considered necessary in the European Union. That operation won't get here if it hurts Icelandic interests. For the taking off of doubt, this case and a book that has been approved by both Norway, the European Union, and Liechtenstein, gave us the full right to use our sovereignty as needed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So no one here is going to hand over a sovereignty. [[The president calls.]] This is very clear, and it has been very well discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u56	A respectable president. It says we've done this before, we're always doing this, we just do it one more time, we don't do anything about it. A respectable president. I remember ever talking about whether we were allowed to hand over a fine authority, I remember that it was out of parts like they called in airplanes, some nail that was supposed to put in catring cars in airplanes. If this was not done correctly and something was revealed, a fine might be used. I remember these experts we're talking about saying to us: "When it's being passed on to an institution that we're certainly involved in, you and the members of the council have to evaluate it individually, whether it's within the constitution. I remember I said yes, I think it's our interest that we keep on doing this, with this little example. [[The president calls.]] Now the same experts say: You are beyond the limit. [[The president calls.]] We're out of line, a respectable president, that's why I'm going to say no now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u57	A respectable president. In this discussion, there is a significant situation that exists here. A group of people who have supported us in dealing with the European Union, do, and have done so on the grounds that we want to act as a fully independent nation in cooperation with other European countries, do not vote on this. In this case, prominent and independent members of the hall are going to lie down in an effort to get our European work without sitting at the table. They're ready to break the constitution. This is the difference between these categories, the United States, and then the relativity class again and the High School for Europe. We care about the constitution. We want to sit at the table where decisions are made while the others are ready to break the constitution, and the European work is covered with claustrophobics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u58	A respectable president. My concern for this matter has increased after I hear a talk. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejosson, who seems to think that there is a general authority in the Iceland Constitution to hand over power to the EFTA Monitoring Institute, as a two-part solution. There is no such general authority in the Iceland Constitution. [[Up front.]] It is clear from the professor's warning words that she believes that here she is, too far gone. And so says Stefán Stefánsson, that this two - sided solution goes too far. There is no general authority to hide this monitoring agency from EFTA, which Iceland has no direct authority to, the government to be in Icelandic hands, according to Article 2. Iceland's constitution. This is what is being done here; it is being violated. The Constitution makes it clear that this authority should be in Icelandic hands. I described the responsibility for a more controlled part of the government that thus goes forth and misconstrued the Constitution so that it would be the cause of the greater part of the General Assembly at any given time to turn over power to foreign institutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u59	A respectable president. It is at times that I recall the first time I began my work here and experienced it, and I saw the sharpness of the lines soon developed between the so - called government and the so - called anti - government position. When we are discussing the constitution, we all agree that we want to honor it. There's a legitimate disagreement here, he's perplexing. It's not for boring, it's because we don't care, and I know that much of it doesn't matter either. But with that fact in mind, I will pray. Senators remember what the table will look like afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u60	President. I think it is important that the following be made clear in the news: ▪111. par. The expeditor of the state. National rights agreements are permitted which include the expansion of government to the international institutions involved in peace and economic cooperation. The head of the state must always be reversible. The law shall set out in more detail the expansive capacity of each government under the national rights contract. If the law contains a significant supply of power, it shall be signed by the votes of all votes for approval or innuendo. The results of such national pay are binding. President. It is sad that this article has not become part of the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland and all the other articles in a new constitution, which the General of Congress surmised as it is today the current constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u61	Mr. President. We are giving more government over here than any other form of government that we have approved at the International Assembly of Iceland since we walked in the EEA. At one time, four statesmen considered whether our membership in the EEA broke the Constitution. They concluded that it was not. At that time, it was believed that the EEA was a relatively static unit that would not change much. Another came during the day. These four statesmen said that there should be an observation of this trend, and if it became evident that the EU rules would change and that the Constitution could be contrary, we would have national commitments to change it. I think it's totally during the day after this discussion that it's very important to change the constitution. It's supposed to be the lesson we're learning from this case, we're going to have to put into it as the first matter behind elections to change the constitution, to adopt a new constitution on the basis of what the board of directors sent away It would have solved the problems that came up here. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u62	A respectable president. We need to change the constitution. It is quite remarkable that the government chooses to play a financial system in its present legal uncertainty. There is little more important in financial markets than trust, credibility, and dependability. That financial market legislation should be so strongly based on the premonitions of two of the top political experts that it will not continue which can be unpredictable in times of emergency, on financial markets, on the benefits of the Icelandic state, on attempts to shut down banks in times of emergency. It is completely unacceptable legal uncertainty both for financial systems and for society. So I don't understand, a respectable president, why people start off so shortsighted, both to the Constitution and to the financial markets it's supposed to serve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u63	Mr. President. Here we are making a decision, as we are giving more government to a national institution than we have ever made. This decision will give such an institution the authority to intervene in any financial activity under certain circumstances, even to stop and temporarily ban enterprises. I believe this decision, on its own, conflicts with the constitution. But we also agree with the influence of this exuberance with the influence of the previous related ones. When this is done, I think there is absolutely no doubt that we are beyond the limits allowed by the Constitution. This underscores the need for us to accept a new constitution and that constitution should be on the basis of those steps made by the Government Council. It's supposed to be the first work of a new government to come together and discuss it and the first works of the new Council to accept such a constitution. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u64	A respectable president. This case took a long time to treat the administration and monitoring committee because it was not well prepared by the government. It was unclear how this new commitment could even limit our scope to take needed action, such as the one that came to be in the fall of 2008, we are again confronted with a financial crisis. The above work involved, in the good peace of all groups, finding a solution to this problem and making sure that we are not in a material way a threat to Iceland's economic sovereignty. But later, experts'comments on the administrative aspect of the matter and our space to accept the duties and commitments of this arrangement remain to the same constitution. In view of their warnings, I feel that this is physically different from previous votes. I believe those who vote for this matter are setting an example of 2 grams. When it comes to selling power to international institutions, the Constitution is a matter of physical translation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u65	V.E.G. President. Listening to what was bad meant by a change of purpose. paritaprevir Páll the Árnason of Aarna earlier, in view of the great things that have fallen upon us in this council hall today, does well to say: "Look! Hv. paritaprevir The years of Páll Árnason pointed to a very important part of the rest of the case on the part of the administrative and surveillance committees, which includes an important exercise of national sovereignty, supported by the EEA Convention whereby the state is expected to have left behind as far as opportunity and opportunity and opportunity to deal with serious situations in which governments and conventions are needed. It is vital that this point be made. I don't think there's any particulars here. I refer to the very nature of the matter and to where there might be a ceremony. We are not going beyond what we have been doing when we see the material, when we see the sources and the conclusion is unconvinced to me. [[The president calls.]] I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u66	President. I haven't been in the Parliament for a very long time, but it's starting to get high for eight years. At that time, we have talked very regularly about a career in sovereignty. Whenever this is discussed and investigated, members of the Parliament have voted by entering the grey area with an inner discomfort. I've seen it many times. I understand that the majority of the people are willing to pass this case through the council, but I would have wanted us to discuss the possibility of postponing the case until a new article has been approved in the Republic's Constitution allowing such exposition. But no, we've come too far into the gray zone, we've entered the black zone, and I can't quite pay this case through the Council and will say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u67	A respectable president. I find it important to say that if I say no, I do not have a negative view of the matter in a material way. I think it's important. On the other hand, because of the big doubt as to whether this will pass the constitution, and the doubt is large and large, and there has been a clear opinion that this is not a constitution, I have to say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u68	A respectable president. I vote against the bill for the reasons it has been listed. I wondered what it will be like in the future when such discussions arise; do the same reasoning or objection? Will a review of the Constitution take place? Will the majority, then, contribute extenuating regulations in the constitution? If we are never going to do so, let us be honest about it and stop acting like the EEA and the EU is about the constitution. But if we're going to act like it's about the constitution, let's take it seriously. This includes taking to heart the material treatment of a new constitution based on a shrinking administrative body that had gone far into this council. A great deal of work had been put on that issue, especially the 111th article, for two adjustments were made from the greater part of the administrative and surveillance committee at the 141th Council. We've had plenty of time to discuss that too. I suggest that the next council take the Constitution as its first priority at its job. [[Take the front, hear. Hear]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u69	A respectable president. It was David Cameron who said that the EEA like Iceland was controlled by a Brussels fax machine. This adds to the legal condition that the Agency and the Independence Party will move ground-to-convict authority to the European Union to have the highest authority in financial management here and to close banks directly or indirectly. [[Take it up: wrong.]] All of us should have much to think about. It would have been a lot more successful for the General under these circumstances to create the possibility of accepting these types by changing the constitution rather than breaking it. You're not supposed to break the constitution. If she does not permit what the council wants, the Senate wants to see her own respect in installing the requirements of the Constitution. There's no other way to work, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u70	Mr. President. This issue is not about the European Union. This is about how we can fulfill our responsibilities by being part of the EEA organization through our being in EFTA, and that we do so without it conflicting with the constitution. What has been presented in the discussions on this subject is that there is real doubt that it will pass the constitution. Because of that doubt, I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u71	Mr. President. I will vote against this case because I believe it will go against the Constitution. The whole thing, the discussion, has once again emphasized in a very clear way that we must change the constitution. We need to draw on a new constitution in history right after the election, as well as respect national law since 2012. The whole thing shows that it is the right way, and it needs to be done right after the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u72	A respectable president. It is essentially good and important to find stronger tools to control international banking systems. However, in this case there is an issue that the Constitution will be conducted. It's not easy for us to have a constitution where there's an issue. That is why we need to be serious in the Constitution. I took an oath to this constitution, the current Constitution of Iceland, and now the leading statesmen have said it's out of the blue. The Constitution must enjoy the doubt, so I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u73	A respectable president. It is true here that this is about how we can be members of the European Economic Environment Agency and how we can adopt reasonable financial guidelines without a loss of our own sovereignty. Our current constitution prevented us from taking up the system set before us, we had a special system built. I fear that if the will of those here who have spoken of putting power in a constitution is to go through where the sovereignty would be disturbed much faster and more because the current constitution calls for us not to break the sovereignty and the constitution. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] That's why there's a rule to be built. That's why I think it's good, and I've had a lot of work to do. What is surprising in the discussion is not that those who want to walk in the European Union and want us to work and take over everything that comes from the European Union, what is surprising in this discussion, is that the left movement has become on that bus. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say yes because this is a good way to meet our responsibilities in the European Economic Area. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u74	Mr. President. The members of the board of directors and the administrative body have already put this issue into an amazing position. I think the highest. The present prime minister would be closer to being here a little humble than using abusive terms to others. He shall remember this vote, that he has paid this vote if later it turns out it was a violation of the constitution. It is in doubt that this is a time for handing over vast authority, and that power can eventually lead to a very burdensome act on national law. Business intervention, fines, stops, it's like this. [[Up front.]] And it's better to break the constitution than to change it, just break it into small portions. This dose alone was always very close to the Constitution, but when it is added to the EEA Convention at its time, Schengen, air management room, environment etc. are more likely, all of us experts tell us that we have come down to the ground, it has become an unsurpassed situation how gradually and at this high dose the EEA contract is being delivered power. [[The president calls.]] Is this how humans want it to go on, slowly breaking it in doses more and more than face reality? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a pathetic political bitch.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u75	A respectable president. I say no, and I'm still going to say that I'm amazed that those politicians who don't want and who have rejected it for a long time in the constitution that the deed will enter it, come in here, and are going to push it through, as they do, and say, "Yes, it's better to have nothing in the constitution. Why don't we just cancel the constitution, a respectable president? Then we can always decide what we're doing here, and we don't have to do anything about it. It's a disgrace here. Again, I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u76	Now we'll have a half-hour break at this meeting, till the clock. 13,40. At the end of this discussion, however, the president wants to say one thing. We've been discussing a very difficult case, considering the question of whether the matter of the matter would last for Iceland's Constitution. Clearly, there have been differences of opinion and are not intended to be said. Our communication ends with votes, thus taking sides in the matter on the basis of the Constitution, according to our best awareness and our best conscience. Therefore, the president does not want it to be unconcerned that this was the subject of earlier discussions that certain members of Congress who might vote on the case were deliberately going against the Constitution and breaking it. It was too much for a president to think of.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u77	Madam President. I would like to make a comment on the fact that the program contains subjects that have been offered but also other subjects that are to be discussed. Now, when it is assumed that there are four meetings left, the program is still scheduled for the one to wait. and will likely call for coverage on the part of the council. There is still nothing left to determine what the greater part of the government wants to finish during the remaining four meetings. I have to say, I feel that the possibility of continuing the council as a hostage has already been extended, well and well. During our government opposition, we have tried to pay for all the legal arrangements and to pay for matters throughout the council. Now, however, the feeling is beginning to develop that this is just a matter - of - matter decision and that it should only continue to set up new and new issues, no matter what the whole process or plan. There is no attempt to have a conversation about how to complete the council and what matters should be concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u78	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, because we have exerted ourselves in the government's stand in an effort to make a matter happen so that we can finish our jobs and enter an election campaign where the party can begin to introduce what they intend to do in the next term. The election is short, men have set up a work plan to September 29th, and new and large matters have still been introduced. Most of these cases are more and less involved in the same committees, so they are overloaded and we must begin to sit down and decide what we believe we will complete in the short time remaining. We do not need the will to try to put big and good things ahead of the council, but it will be a challenge, and at times it simply is that if you think that there is a problem, time is not enough. Now these decisions must take place. [[The president calls.]] What can we finish and what can't we do?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u79	A respectable president. It is not too much to expect that the majority of the item to come together on which subjects are going to be completed here so that priorities can be set so that we can finish these matters quickly and safely, even if only to do so. Councilmen can know what priority should be set in their time. Here it's all the time, so we have these huge issues, we don't know which one of them goes through, we don't know which priority the government will put them in, and we don't know how much time we'll have before they're set up and voted for them. That's the situation. It's the best thing to do. Councilmen to do their job as they should. It is not the fault of anyone else, but the failure of the greater part to agree on what they are going to put first. It's all in the hands of the greater part, and it's about time we started talking about it here, since there's definitely no talking anywhere else seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u80	Madam President. It is impossible for us to find another way, so there are only a few days in the new schedule that we are supposed to be leaving the council for the election to recall what was agreed on in spring when this brief fall council was set up. It was to complete matters related to currency, housing, and health. Today, a new issue is being set on a schedule that is not associated with any of these priorities. There's still a new case, Madam President. It's an out-of-state council, I must say. We are being drawn into the position of government, which has been extremely cooperative. This will no longer work, Madam President. This is where we resist.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u81	Madam President. I come up to join someone else. Councilmen complaining about the task force at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. That's a work programme. On September 29, we are going to complete a council, but new issues will be raised. Yesterday, we were discussing one of these new issues, big business, about a change in the national pension system. When we make very moderate and grammatical comments about running the issue over, we are threatened that we can just stay here until the issue is over. This is so ridiculous, Madam President. So that there will be some peace for the rest of the council, the priorities must be set, the contracting of the smaller portion of what can be done and controlled by the council, but do not allow it to drive down the whims of some men in the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u82	A respectable president. I want to make comments to the President's conference board. The program is different from the one that has been discussed in the president's meetings with members of the council and with presidents. Let us not forget that we were to have this brief assembly of September 2. It's been stretched out by now. I don't know what men are going to do. If it is really so that the will is to complete an important matter, which no one knows yet what matter is or what case the government stresses, but I give myself the social security, pension rights, etc., it's natural funny, so to speak, that this is part of a program with two new cases all at once. What should we do with them? What are they here for? Why don't we be a little squeamish about our work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u83	President. Now there has been a whisper in the tunnel that there is a possibility that the council might continue for another week, beyond the schedule. Here is a subject on a program that was not announced when government directors discussed what they stressed. In fact, there are two cases here, one of them is so amazing that you don't really know where to start and quite absurdly think that it goes through without resistance. There are giant cases inside the council, framed, major changes in the pension system, major changes in the Icelandic loan fund, social security, big changes, and we're supposed to finish this in a few days. President. I demand that there be a meeting with members of the council to review the situation, because it is disturbing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u84	A respectable president. The president of September 23 is today's 23rd, and we are well beyond the point of new issues. Everyone must see that. Congress is completely out of control. It's just hot and upset here day after day. I'd also like to mention to the President that there is some emergency meeting with the Agency, so I don't know any better than the whole Congress Agency is at a meeting of their internal issues. Is it not fitting, then, that we interrupt a meeting for it all so that candidates can participate in the next discussion? Don't we have to take this into account when there's an internal meeting in the middle of a meeting? Is it not right to face it and to pause the meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u85	A respectable president. I'd like to agree that I think this meeting should be interrupted while the candidates take their advice. [[For example, consider: Give them emotional space.]] Yes, allowing them emotional space, as people call it. I think it would be nice for us to do that. Besides, I'd like to say it's natural, I don't know what to use, silly, stupid, to be putting in new cases like temporary reimburses for recording music. I deeply agree with this, but why on earth the minister has not brought it before? She hasn't had many other issues. It's strange, then, to bring it up when we're having discussions, and we're being put up with it, and people are thinking of finishing changes in the State Pension Fund over a week and new social security laws in two weeks. [[The president calls.]] It's natural, superintendent president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u86	Madam President. I can say that it is a bit Spanish to see here a new matter in the year 1. which, in view of where we are, cannot be held out that the heavens and the earth will be destroyed. I talked about it a little earlier this morning, and I'd like to say that in itself, I don't care how the present government gets out of it. It appears to be fully peaceful and inhumane with the position upstairs. The result, the result, is inverse proportion to the time it takes its operators to face the reality. They will far less reap the longer people become so stubborn. I don't boil it. But there's one thing I don't care about, that's the Senate. It's how we look, that we work to the end well and objectively and carefully at the council for the rest of our days. Of course, it will be harder and more difficult as this uncontrolled nonsense continues, and if the government imagines that there will be a payment at 20, 30, 40 bigs in just 24 hours, it will just be gone. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u87	A respectable president. All of us as individuals have been in the position of having much on our table. So, what do you do? You go over the amount of time you have left behind, over the scope of the issues you have to complete, and you take priority and try to fit in with the amount of time you have. There's nothing like that around here. They do not even sit here and realize what is possible at the time that remains of the council. Here's a new way to recommend large gaming and pension-related legislation, to the Economic and Business Committee, to cut off the budget, to return to the prices and prices of loans, to the first resorts, to the economy, and now to measure for two more large issues today, and there's a week to go. [[The president calls.]] It is absolutely clear, most respectable President, that this is not going to work. Let's sit down, like people, and consider our calendar together and figure out what we trust in ourselves to finish and what we don't do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u88	President. If the General Assembly were a printery, the final law would have been printed. Now it's just like when I worked on a newspaper once that if the reporter didn't return the material at the right time and the metabolite didn't return his page at the right time, or those who wanted to advertise did not return the advertisements at the right time, it didn't go in the paper. The paper's closed, Mr. President. No more new cases can be brought into the council. This is ridiculous, completely ridiculous. Actually, all the matters that have come here since the president of the council had given the government a precise date on when the last due date would be due out of the council program. But it's as if a president has no ability to say anything to the executives here and no further. That's very sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u89	Madam President. I think it's the best. Mr President is challenging us in the lesser part. We've been here since the big tax business came up with the leaks from the Panama Documents where the largest protests following the collapse occurred in the Eastfield because of the property of three fiscal ministers. Then an emergency plan was negotiated so that the government could complete some of the cases because it has been very unworkful and most of the work it has been done to the limit, but there were some cases that she thought would have to complete. In our memory, we've been very responsible for our jobs, we've worked on matters faithfully, and we've paid for the council's duties. That time has passed, Madam President, because we've been made a fool of ourselves, as today's program shows. I insist that there be a pause here and I figure out how to finish this awful thing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u90	A respectable president. Just before then, the LAIN bill was taken out of the Committee after a little or no material discussion about a huge question that points to whether the system that is being set up in the bill is better or worse than what we have right now. Why was it just torn out? Because we didn't have time, we haven't been working well in the winter because the case of this government, which seems to be in a state of existence, has not occurred until after the last due date. You know what? When you do an essay too late, you fall on the test, that's just the way it is. This government, the alleged government that lives here in mortals, is just supposed to leave, that's enough. A respectable president. I think it's time to interrupt this conference, sit down and figure out what we have to do. There are certain issues that will not go through, and there is no point in pretending and thinking that they can. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to make a decision why I'm making comments to the President's conference board. I noticed that today's program was unknown, and I have been surprised to learn that there are two new issues when so many other matters exist. Now I want to say that the two issues discussed are good. It would be wish that they had been planned earlier, and we could have done some good work with them. It is also wish that there is an organization here to help ensure that cases are done well, that the members of the Parliament's Committees, come into the Hall, and be discussed, and that we do our best to do good work. That's all I ask, that I be enabled as a senator to work on responsibility. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm making comments to the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u92	A respectable president. I was hoping this spring when it was decided that in the fall of this year, we would have an opportunity to set a good example, we could skip all the chess games, we could skip all the routes, and it would pay for the appearance and work of the council that here we would conduct our jobs so that everyone would be okay with it, and everyone has been okay with it all the time since then. It saddens me now to experience the beginning of what seems to be the lesson that it was a mistake. It saddens me if I am to tell members of the next council that they should never be at peace, should always be as boring as they possibly can, that is the only way to squeeze the government's priorities on what matters should be completed. It's a lesson I hope I don't have to give anyone. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u93	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1696, case 876, National Network Corp bill. to build and fire 220 kV electrical lines from the Kritas Station to Thematic Implicit activation and to the industrial region of Bakka, in the Northern Parliament. The lead story of the bill is due to the fact that in August, 2016, the Environment and Resource Commission decided to temporarily stop in Slipped Strategies and the Projectional Forces, in terms of correction of electrical lines from the Crimea to the backfield, through Theist smoke, i.e. Right Line 4 and Theistarian Artic Line 1. The decision was primarily referred to the appeal of new nature protection laws, No. 60/2013, which took effect on November 15, 2015, and the implementation of the rural society against them. The above-specified decision-making committees of environmental and resource-based decision-making and charges to the activities of the rural community have established a high level of uncertainty about the progress of employment development in the northeastern region. Is it the opinion of the members of their enterprise, in one way or another, that the uncertainty may cause significant financial damage, both to government, to local and corporate institutions, and as a number of years of preparation - which began as most of the people in this hall are remembering in the past government - that the structure of jobs on Backka is upset. For example, the collapse of Landsnet's projects has already cost the shipping business tens of millions of dollars. Further delays in not being able to achieve when making contracts of various parties could cause significant damage to the number of people involved in the construction of the industry area in Bakka and transport of electricity into the region. Implementing national activation with the Theist hosts, which are well meant in these spoken words, is dependent on the activation related to the electrical transport system. It is rather obvious, but it should be noted that the activation will depend on activation through the electrical transport system, thus becoming useful to the job building of Back. Similarly, the activities of the German company of PCC on the back depend on the silicon factory receiving electricity from the Theistarase activation of the same transporter construction. At that time, projects will have a financial impact because of the infrastructure established by the Icelandic State and local rural areas, as per its regulations since 2013, i.e. Law No. 41/2013, authorization for Ministers, f.h. Government funds, to finance infrastructure because of employment in the country of Bakka in the North Council, and law No. 52/2013, on a warrant for a silicar contract in the Northern Parliament in Bakka. As we all know, construction in the industrial region of Backka is in progress and plan. Earlier this month, I visited Húsavík and drove, even through the tunnel that leads from Húsavík to the industrial region, a tunnel that the General has discussed, and has made decisions in the past. The General has adopted a special arrangement for this process, as well as repeatedly approval of funding for them. In addition, the more serious it is to delay the project and uncertainty about its progress may have a significant impact on the progress and funding of other projects here on the country, both the current projects and those to be considered. That's what people have already heard. On top of this, Iceland's reputation as a reliable investment option will be seriously affected by the uncertainty that is not destroyed. For many years, Iceland's good reputation has been developed in that area, including the U.S. has been stressed as to why and how orderliness is involved in new investments. Therefore, when taken together, it is considered that the scope of the public interest, both economic in larger context and social with regard to the job structure in the northeastern region, is thought to be the result of the reforming of electronic energy to Backka, as well as the loss of uncertainty about their progress. With reference to these public interests, the objective and motive of the bill is to ensure that the project continues according to its schedules and is no longer delayed as it has been. As mentioned in the report, other responsible alternatives are considered to be simply not present in the existing position. The bill of my recommendation is most important because of the clear bars of the Northern Council, the House of Nations, and the Skulling Stumps to the government. There is a joint resolution of these rural communities, in which the search for government and the General Assembly is taking immediate action to solve the resulting knot and it seems that no other means than direct legalization will be achieved. Is that statement followed by the bill and I refer to it. Thus, the bill is responding to the situation and the challenges that have been faced, including the following: ... fromthecontinents of the local community. The objective of the bill is to resolve the serious situation that is faced because of shutting down projects on the above lines and uncertainty about when it is possible to continue. As the report on the bill shows, urgent public interests are considered to be the result of bringing this issue to its conclusion as quickly as possible and being regarded as being non-terrestrial, unfortunately, but the legislation laid on the bill. It may be moderate because the requirements for the existing projections requiring the full reduction of environmental impacts are taken up in the bill and are therefore not being reduced by environmental demands for implementation or by sacrificing nature's interests on the costs of other interests. Madam President. The contents of the bill are in summary that, with reference to the interest assessment set out in the report, and I have crossed here, the legislation is proposed to allow the legislatator to act by law on the necessary instruments of electricity, on the basis of a legal preparatory process, in place of the local government. In order to eliminate any doubt, the bill also includes the implementation of a contract due to the implementation of the procedure on transport lines. However, local governments are monitoring the implementation in accordance with organizational requirements and conditions of available implementation. At the same time, the bill presents a law code on the new nature protection laws to make it clear that they were not intended to influence projects that have advanced to the level of implementation and where the rights and control decisions are available. On the basis of the bill, there was a legal basis for an external organisation for the compliance of the bill to Iceland's constitution and international commitments, which is also an opinion of a follow-up with the bill. In particular, there's the opinion of the so-called Asrús Convention and the EEA Convention. Furthermore, a review was made to determine whether the bill was out of harmony with its own decision-making rights and laws on the recovery of laws. On the basis of the legal opinion, it is reported that the bill is not likely to violate the Ásar Convention or Iceland's debt to EEA rights. It also shows that the bill will not be considered as opposed to administrative guidelines on the basis of opinions of recovery or community self - determination rights. I would like to refer more closely to the logical support presented in a package with the bill. The bill was conducted with the Ministry of Presidency and the Environmental and Resource Ministry. At the same time, rural communities were consulted at the North Council, the Tingy Islands and Skulu Standardrrepp and the Landsnet. It should be noted that following the decision of the Environment and Resource Commission, as well as the discontinuation of the work, there were meetings at the WHO and the National Protection Agency. As a result, the Landsnet organized a field trip to the construction site. The tour of the location of planned line lines was followed, as well as the discussion of its situation and leads to the reconciliation of the transport system to the future with minimal impact on the environment. Prior to the development of the bill I recommend here, additional meetings were held with the presence of the Ministry of Presidency, the Environment and Resource Ministry, as well as the Ministry of Employment and Development. The Organization, National Protection, and Landsnet also attended this meeting with the goal of trying to work out a mutual solution to the uncertainty of the situation. It was the party's evaluation following them that it did not prove, and again I say sadly, be flat on meeting the agreement of the case between the defendant and the manager. For this reason, the project of the bill presented in this section should be regarded as referring to the interests specified in the bill as other responsible benefits simply do not lead to the narrow and serious state of state. In this context, it would be proper to assume that Landsnet's idea of minor changes in Theistaremet Line 1 to address Land Protection View and to further reduce lava reduction. It means that the walk of the line is bent on about A chapter of two miles [2 km] prevents the formation of moats or trails within the neighborhood protection of the lava world. The Agency's assessment of such changes as the Landsnet has presented to the Agency due to Theistase Line 1 calls for a unique change in the main structure and disorganization. If a member of the Parliament wants to make such a change, the outcome of the transition should be rapid. The Landsnet also feels that such a change in Theistar Artytype 1 is possible without an unacceptable delay in the project. A respectable president. As I've traced, I believe this is a very important matter in view of the vast economic and community interests involved. I point out that this is a building project covering a lifetime of more than one government, and therefore it is important to try to achieve a broader solidarity of the case at the Council and that the Council sent a clear message to eliminate the serious uncertainty that exists regarding the progress of the development of a work structure in the North East that has been developed for years across the years. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. The pro board and the 2nd. I want to thank you in advance. Congress members for understanding what I have experienced at the Assembly Hall that this is a very important matter and in view of the discussion here on the President's conference board for this program, I think it is especially right to thank for it, and I really hope that we can take care of it quickly and clearly, no matter what the opinions of the subject may have on the content of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u94	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. First of all, a minister of several counts to which there are tore up the legal opinion that is distributed here as a bill ensued. I thank you for its ensuing, as it is obvious that there are a considerable number of legal matters when such matters are presented, in fact, going into violations of total law, whether it is a natural protection law, planning legislation, a law on rural society, or their personal right to a constitution in order for one particular project. It is unusual to be asked in such a way, and therefore, there is every reason to do a great deal of tearing up the figures there are. I'd like to ask the highest. First of all, a minister is about the views involved in the Aliskiren Convention. Here we are talking about a bill that actually stops a certain process. The question is about the whole bill, which aims to break this legitimate court treatment apart for an independent decision-making attorney based on the Ásse Convention, by decommissioning the license with the legislation, and granting a new act permit. The legal opinion is to determine whether the bill violates the contract just by checking whether the new leave of the bill falls under the contract, but it is not about whether the license that is currently valid will fall under the contract and by taking it out of force is to compromise with the Console Convention. It is surprising that this is not addressed in a special way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u95	A respectable president. The legal opinion taken on short notice will address the Árús agreements in the way it is considered, as the senator points out, whether the new license and these legislation will measure up to the commitments we have had there and that is answered. As to whether this is a break-in and whether there has to be a review of the relevant implementation papers for the treatment of the Committee, I don't think it has to be done. It would have been the rurals in the palm of the song to cancel these passes and give new ones, and then they would have gone through the system the same way, and react to any comments that might be on their leave. I know there was an opinion at some point in the matter of going that way. But in view of the enormous interests and the urgent need to eliminate uncertainty in this case, it was decided not to go that way, since it would always take some month. Thus, the legal reimbursement is beginning to be canceled, canceled, and legally granted. In view of the law firm we consulted, it does not conflict with the International Convention, which is not a administrative decision but with legislation set by elected representatives of the nation. Therefore it is set here in this way, and it is not considered to be against him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u96	President. It is there that the dog is buried because it in itself is not interesting whether the new license will depend on the Conspiracy Treaty or not, it obviously does not. When we talk about a new act as the lawgiver, it's a different type of work than the one it's supposed to be dealing with. The question remains: Is it against the Ásar Convention to disseminate a work permit in a specific process? In fact, it's the problem that surprises me that the legal opinion is not to be addressed, and I feel that it's completely unsatisfied. The other question I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on recovery. It also discusses whether the new provisional regulations set up in nature protection laws include retrospective action that violates laws of law recovery. Whether the whole bill, which truly involves a direct intervention in the matter, does not include feedback that does not measure up to these principles, is not considered. There is also a comment that I would like to make with the legal opinion that is not addressed in a ambiguous way, making the bill even weaker than the minister in his historical history. Finally, I'd like to ask the minister, and then we're asking about three, first of all, the Companion Treaty, second of all, the rear efficiency, whether or not other procedures have been completed, i.e. the ownership required to complete this project with landowners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u97	A respectable president. Well, I don't have much more to say about the Aggress agreement. Of course, the decisions, or those laws, if they are accepted, are welcome to the courts and all free to do so, but they are not in that process, as we talked about earlier, that government decisions are otherwise. For other processes that may remain, it is true. A senator points out that there is one decision in this regard, and that is a decision to take possession of it. In October 2015, U.S.A., U.S.A. requested a possession education request for my Ministry. It is not long before the decision is made. We have, especially in the light of the Southnes line Supreme Court's New Court Court Court, dealt very well with this decision, sought consultation, ensure that all means have been sought to reach the conclusion without the need for special study, so that is the case in that process. I expect that decision soon lies ahead, although at this point I cannot tell exactly when it is. As for the senator's retrospective question, I have to admit that I don't fully understand the way he is going, but I'll answer that question once we've heard a little bit more about what she was after.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u98	A respectable president. This is a pain in the ass. I pretended to hear it from the minister's speech, and I believe she agrees with me on that. There is an agreement to set laws because processes do not function quickly enough according to the minister's assessment and, in the opinion of the manager, to establish the Back of the PC and to allow land activation to begin sending the energy they produce in Theist hosts into that factory. It says: There are so much money, huge financial and social interests that, although bad, we have to drive it through like this. What are these interests? Let's go over it a little bit. I just want to look at the big picture of it. The government's paid back a tunnel from back there. Our last assembly approved heretics to PCC, which means that countries and societies will give up taxes and fees. Then there's land induction to activate on The States. How much? It's minus in the balance account of the company, which is a state company. Then there's Landsnet linework. How much are they? I simply want to ask the minister of my first answer: Is all of this worth the effort? Do we not find, in a nutshell, that the great industrialism that has been expelled does not pay off at all? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u99	A respectable president. I agree with what. I don't think I'll agree with you anymore, i.e. about the rest. I don't particularly agree with what was said about our willingness to accept laws. On the contrary, we are responding to a most serious position in a very responsible way. I can assure you what. A senator that in this matter, which enters during the last days of the council, we have sought all ways to solve it without needing to act on law, just because this is the way that is the last option we had on the table. This process is about ten years old. It's been through all the pathways we have in the law. People, all stakeholders, nature protection organizations, everyone, have been involved in this case for ten years, it's been going through everything. We're at the point where we're putting a cornerstone at the activation right now. The activation has begun. Whatever you may think of an indiscretion or a project like this, you are already building. For what? Because the legislation and lawgiver, the present and then existing government, adopted this process by law. These laws and words and commitments must be trusted. What is unacceptable is that laws are passed later in the process that affect a project that has been completed ten years. That is what we are correcting and responding now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u100	A respectable president. I'm quite aware of this. I think Ministers are saying, "My hands are tied, we must proceed in this manner." I'm very sorry. But the highest. However, a minister is responsible for this. I know she'll accept that responsibility. V.E.G. In his talk earlier, a minister said that no matter what opinion a person might have on the subject of the bill's subject, it is important that we take care of it quickly and carefully. I want it to be clear what I think about the big business, and I think I've done it well before. I'd like to say, of course, that's what matters in this relationship. No matter how they feel about the matter, members of the Parliament cannot be demanded to resolve a matter. It's natural. It's very crooked. Of course, this matter will be handled very well, and people must do so according to their conscience. I'm just sorry that an entire community is put in this position and that the previous government and the present government do. Of course, I know that and I admit that this is something that started many years ago, but I wish that men had been forward enough to not have this department policy. We'll suffer for it now. I want to make sure we don't go that way. Now it's got to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. I respect and, of course, accept the position of the senator described here. She is opposed to this assignment, and it is an attitude that I respect. It's a natural thing too. A senator said - of course, I am responsible as an evangelizer for this matter, and I accept that responsibility. It was not simple because this in itself is not a matter under my ministry. My Council of Staff does not quite give any license, and it does not have the legal group to do so. But in view of the importance of this, to make a picture of the classes I'm responsible for, I'm here, and I'm responsible, and I'm not saying with joy, because it's not a matter that any man is glad to have, but it's a matter that needs to be done. There was something else I forgot to stress, I mentioned it in my history, in my first answer to the senator about why we're going this way, and it's not least a challenge that we received from our local communities, which this matter matters most. They directly brought us a challenge, and there is also a copy of the bill, that the government and lawgiver need to deal with this situation. That is a challenge that we took very seriously. When we saw that we could make peace with one another, the decision was to take that stand. The reason why I requested that members of the council, whatever their financial position, help us resolve this matter from the council as the very interest I have already taken over, and because each day is extremely important. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u102	A respectable president. I would like to represent here in a brief talk to explain my position on this matter in reply to a minister. We agreed that this is a pain in the ass, to have to intervene in this way, I understand that per se. I have full sympathy for the community at Húsavík from what has come to pass. That I would like to state that I wish that this expedition had never been laid. I just want to say it very clearly. I hope we learn from what is going on today and take good care of other similar projects. What do they mean? Here are some who speak in a way that important and good for communities to build industry, that it may be an injection for rural society and communities. I'll allow me to counter negatives there. The economic impact associated with this social effect is discussed extensively. Then I just want us to remember that with the wills for such projects, we're paying a lot of money with them. We have to take it into this account. It's like now Bakka's been buried there. It costs billions. There have been coincidences of state and tax and tax subsidies, and what does that mean? That means that a company specific and similar gets a discount from paying what everyone else needs to pay. It doesn't have to pay the same amount of taxes or fees to a farm partner, and is it just that we don't need it? Yes, we use the taxes to build various infrastructures as these companies and others. The difference here is that there are others paying for this use than this particular company. That's what I've said, and I've said again and again, that it's the wrong thing to do. Lines also cost a lot of money. Paying it is to the taxpayers. Fortunately, we still have our network, and I hope it will be forever. And so it is also that national activation in connection with this kind of plan, big plans, and it's not as if it's free of charge. It costs to do so, and it costs billions. Civilization is a government business. All the loans that land induction brings on such projects are risks for taxpayers and citizens of the country. I think it's important in this context to draw this on the table and that we'll discuss it all in context. Because I want us to learn from what's going on at Bakka. I really hope we don't have the same place with the next big day, with our next big job. It can't happen. To do so, we need a change of course. Then we need to stop focusing on the importance of something important and the benefit of focusing on these trades and paths. I hope that we will succeed in wisdom to do so. Of course, with this particular matter, it's the whole party's in a corner. They're trying to fix things here. In some respects, I understand, but I cannot accept the decisions that have been made that have led to this day. This should have been clear, and we should have been through history. I hope we do now. This is a political intervention of the administration process. That's unusual. Though the Council shall have the last word, and the minister shall be responsible, and it shall surely do so, it is my best to know that the law of the matter shall continue without any intervening. Now I don't know exactly what led to the decision-making board on environmental and resource issues not only paying off their opinions on these layers. I understand that a conclusion was expected this October. Why is there such a rush? Then there's a new organization like the ultimate. Minister spoke of. Maybe that's what drives it, you have to go to it with your communities. All of this is a pathetic, respectable president. I'm glad this comes to our committee, I have a job committee, and it's going to be a problem. It's interesting how much trouble there was. It's probably no new story, it's been in irons for quite a long time, so I don't quite figure out why it was here overnight or the night for what they sat down and wrote those laws on this particular case. Why exactly now? Why not a month ago or what it was? If so, we would have had more time, which is important to consider such matters and all aspects of the subject. I don't like it when the requirement is indirectly made to members of Congress that they work quickly because there's so much trouble. Then there's a greater chance of it for us, poor senators, and for all of us, that things aren't very well done. I don't want this case or anyone else involved. A respectable president. I've finished my case as far as I'm concerned. I just wanted to bring it to a book how I feel about the big picture in this case. I hope that we will never be able to stand in the same place as we are here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u103	A respectable president. I thought my speech had made it clear why, but I intend to reiterate my answers here. Hv. A senator asks: "Why is there such a rush? Why was there a bill in the past night? This is precisely because the date since the decision was issued in August, or the implementation permits was stopped temporarily, until the bill was used in an effort to avoid legalization. That's the big explanation and the only explanation. We were meeting with every member of the administration board and outside to find ways to avoid legalization and that this could be solved beyond these walls here. That's why. Why could the committee not be returned? Because it's just too fast. We're going into the winter. A particular job must be completed before the full weight of winter weather. That is why the project could be compromised for various reasons. That's why we're in such a hurry. Something else I wanted to react and agree with. A senator: I really hope that we learn from this too because this is not a situation that any human wants to be in. That's why we're going to do all we can to do that, that we'll learn from this, do things right. For the change of course. A senator calls for it already. We've put here in this ideal period framework on an icebox which is not necessarily a major industry, it's a framework for subsistence-to-investment because of certain based conditions that meet certain requirements. [[The president calls.]] Then we've developed a new investment policy, where there are no big policy but rather emphasis on new investments in biotechnology and innovation and all other aspects of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u104	Thank you very much. Minister for coming up here and answering the questions I asked in my speech. There was no question directed to me, so I can't feel compelled to answer anything. I'll be happy if it's the best. Minister says major industrial policies are being cleared. I'd like to remind you, though, that we have a few large factories waiting for us. We can be sure of that, including herbal factories, and what it is. They are not one of those cute little places of knowledge. There are large factories that are not environmentally friendly at all. I'm not convinced that the policy for new investors approved here is like the highest level. Minister's light. I'm worried that we're still on the same track.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u105	A respectable president. To make a decision: Government policy must be made in the manner of the country for the introduction to future investors. There's the interpretation as a matter of course. A senator helped deal with the council, and he was being discussed with a professional health committee at the time. It lies as a government policy. There is not a single mention of a major industry. What they do. A member of this body brings up here and points out that are not due to government policy but, rather, to the firm that comes here and is interested in setting up this operation. This is in accordance with the general law, and these activities are not being attended in one way or another. This I would like to promote, and second, that great industrialism is not written anywhere, either in the policy sheet of this government or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u106	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister is well aware of his understanding of the matter, and I understand where she is going. On the other hand, here is still the people of discriminatory legislation that I am opposed to, the general framework for indiscretions, and so far big corporations have been moving to Iceland to get cheap energy. I'm against the kind of attraction to these types of companies. I don't think this is necessary at this point. I can well understand that at a certain time when lines had to be built around the country were an excellent additive effect with activation and all of that. Now, the situation is that we've already set these insides up, and we're supposed to consider making a complete transition in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u107	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill on clearance to the Landsnet to build and run electrical lines from the Krate that Theistlein activation and the industrial region of Bakka, the North Council. I asked the highest. A minister on several matters in return and must say that I do not agree with her answers and in fact feel very strongly that the bill violates the HAB agreements, international agreements, and the European Economic Area Convention. I'd also like to mention, because there's been some debate that there's been some change in Icelandic protection law that makes this situation happen, that it's not new. It is not new that lava is protected by natural protection laws. The land net could be clear that it was, so there is good reason to rebuke the Landsnet for not taking precautions, drawing its feet together in this whole process. Basically, this type of legislature is not a good thing to do. Here we are talking about specific legislation that has only one specific purpose. The purpose of the legislation is thus to disable all the laws in force against this particular legislation. Then we're actually talking about the planning laws, the protection laws, municipal legislation, and, above all, a constitution on community self-sponsored rights. This is addressed in the accompanying legal entity, i.e. The private right of a community. I see myself forced to discuss this aspect specifically. The legal text specifically reviews what scholars and courts have agreed on in terms of the subject received in the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. The contents of this article have been described in a way that includes, first of all, a constitution to indicate the existence of rural communities, secondly, that the rural community has self - control in the matters given to them by the lawgiver, and third, that these tasks should be reserved by the Lawgiver. Thus, in informal language it means that this arrangement will not be removed by law, i.e. This administrative level exists, it should have specific tasks, and this includes rural areas of their own position. This suggests that the bill on this subject will depend on the understanding of the Constitution that the legislator can specifically divulge the areas of rural society. That's where I think the bill was wrong, and I think it's even legal. If we argue that the community's activities can be dealt with in a specific way, in order to form a specific road rat, bridges, or organizational decisions, we have obviously cut off all the thinking of our community's own self - determination rights. Of course, it will not be against the recommendation that the lawgiver can legally determine the activities of rural society and the processes, services, etc. If in their hand. But to approach it in such a specific way, I believe that there is a compromise with the proposed regulations. Actually, I think it's very important. The job committee specifically reviews this factor. I want the classics to make the statement that the case is referred to a professional committee. Here we are talking about matters that are subject to the following law columns: Organizational legislation, nature protection legislation, the law on the Ásrose Convention and the activities of rural society. These are all laws under the Environment and Transport Committee. As a precaution, I would like to, because I know that there are warm election modes in people, suggesting that environmental and transport committees get their information on the subject and on the subject. Of course, it would be best for the committees to work together on the basis of the knowledge available in this committee and on these laws mentioned here. I've taken steps in these specific matters, i.e. the issues that are actually the legal foundation of the bill where the counts are to be tore up, whether it's the A Console Convention, the EEA Regulation, the redemption of the law, the self-sponsored rights, etc. I feel, however, that after all, perhaps most important of all, to maintain that this type of law is actually a very serious intervention in the court state. There are no others other than us, i.e. The General Assembly of the Icelanders, who have agreed on general rules. We've agreed on general planning rules, on environmental impact assessments, public access to information and lawsuits, etc. ... throughthePresidentPresident. We have legalized a special panel of Environmental and Resources, legalized nature protection laws in transnational reconciliation, and so forth. All of this legislation is intended to deal with large and small issues when they hit our shores in general, according to the general rules. When it is, as in this case here, that these general rules place us in trouble, and then I'm trying to approach the matter fairly to say that we have a complicated situation and are finding economic interests that no one is questioning, what is the way to approach that position? Here's where I'm going, and I know it's the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs and her Party, the Independence Party, wants to be known for a certain administrative structure, known for the lack of intervening legislation, and this, depending on what is acceptable for the day. It is not good for stable legislation and the security of its citizens to expect that the lawgiver will intervene in such a process. I think this may be very important in the light of the example. We might find ourselves living up to the point that this would be cited gradually. We remember that members of Congress were represented, and it has generally been called a matter of Congress that concerns their hearts, specific legislation on one specific course, for example, or specific legislation on one particular project or airport, which, for some reason, is related to the issues of the council in the district. But generally people have felt that this is not a good way. It does not reflect stability and ambition in legislation. Rather, it reflects a lack of respect in this gray area. Is the lawgiver to run to one specific matter? Is that the right thing to do? Now, of course, the minister stands with a spear. She's a pityer. She gets a letter from a community that just says something needs to be done. I have a measure of sympathy by feeling the need to feel the situation. However, it cannot be said that there are an enormous number of legal cases here. It can also be noted that the Environmental and Resource Declaration Committee has not been exceeded by capital or other resources. That's a natural concern. Not just for the appointed D.A.S. Committees, but for the other panels we have at the Management Board or the management board that are stuck with long tails and stacks of cases, and thus they need the citizens, managers, licences, and others to suffer because there is much waiting to get their results. There is also an unacceptable situation. However, I would like to say that the Environment and Resource Commission has been acting on behalf of the decision being completed in October. There's new news. This was not what was discussed for the first time. It was discussed that the construction stop would have to be for years, if I remember correctly, while it would determine whether certain measures were appropriate in this material that would have to be reasoned with and the reference to the new disposal of nature protection laws. I wondered what the Allied Parliament and Ministers'position, in a few weeks, is, in fact, to follow this example. We're not in a void here, either political or the calendar. The General plan is about to come to an end, we're going to the election. The minister is likely to take pride in leaving this in some measure when she leaves office. But I'd still like to let this view live in the discussion. It is not as if it is worth the start of such legislation, which has unexpected consequences for the entire legal kingdom and as an example for all kinds of legal practices that the Council should not share in my opinion. I asked the highest. Minister already to see if the possession process was complete. She said that if I recall correctly in October 2015, she had been asked for a possession education or that it had been searched. And the minister was working to ensure that all procedures were correct in the light of previous issues in the south or southwest. Everything is normal. At the same time, there is one aspect of the matter that has not been resolved. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is not a matter of possession. I have not yet received answers to what it is that drives us to go to such a gray area of law against other timeliness under the issue, the case position of a ruling committee, etc. A respectable president. I hope to the highest. A minister will help me get some work done on the Environment and Transport Committee also by covering it in his final speech. I know why. The head of the trade committee therefore rejoiced to cooperate with the environmental committee in it as well as in other matters. Other than that, I think we need to work this case on a very detailed scale. There are too many legal opinions here, and there are fields and steps that I believe can be very dramatic.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u108	A respectable president. I'd like to be happy to see that we're seeing the end of this difficult situation that I expect to say on behalf of most of us that it's very hard on our back and that it's out of its own self-concerned concern that the situation is the way it is. We have a very recent laws on nature protection, nature protection laws, where we have cross-coordinated together at the council to frame this great code of law. The senators endeavored to reach out to one another for an important sect. The ink on that law is hardly dried up, and it is already being fulfilled when these disputes arise. I am absolutely convinced that there was no one or no one here at our council when we made these laws, that there were anyone here who saw that there were some people living in a town who violated the law, and looking for potential gaps to do this against projects such as North America, at Bakka, where all the procedures have been carried out by the current law, there has been environmental assessment and all licences obtained, prepared to sign investment agreements, there are huge interests that on the basis of this law they can be stopped and that there can be a great confusion that it is quite realistic that if the council does not react properly to these people, leave these areas, and send them to do the check which is prepared. If we cannot complete certain items at the set time, and now aim to delay them a little, they must have a basis for failure on which they can base their damaged claims. This is the image that even occurs. has been drawn up to be possible in this situation. That is why it is a pleasure to do so. The Minister of Industrial Affairs and the government should respond after a thorough consideration of the case in this way. It's unfortunate that we have to do this in this way, but it's necessary. It is of concern that, shortly after all the reconciliation and the solidarity that existed between us, we have an argument over these issues. If so, review the report on the 2012 frame, which was in exactly the same way. It was an important law of law, an important agreement into the future on the protection and use of our energy resources, their category of protection and innovations. That's when I was in trouble. A industrial committee that discussed this. There was a lot of solidarity. We really reached out and wanted to make peace with each other, which would be acceptable to us. That's where the example promised a great deal. A mission director for frame 2 who had been working long hours under the front of the Svanfríður-free daughter of Jónasdóttir, the former Continental senator, and the mayor of Dalvik, had done a very good job, more thorough and productive job. We set the legislation a little on the basis of that work. We got everybody together. But the ink was no longer dry when it was very controversial and that I want to say bad decisions were made. Then there has been an upset process, as shown by the examples, in a way that differs from the reconciliation the council made. Of course, during the council, we are concerned that the peace that we strive to extend to the sea is far beyond our reach. It must be a solution for us to continue working along, for I don't expect anyone to want these things to be okay. I think the precedent is totally in them. All I want to do is give a speech. paritaprevir This is where Ólafsdóttir helps us to focus her words on something that has been spoken about as a major industry. She spoke of it as some course of nearly this government. On a radio show we were this morning, she said that she had grown tired of these major groups, which we were paying a lot of money with, a heavy industry that didn't pay off. I made that point, and I realized that we had no real knowledge. This would not be environmental, etc. It's controversial, as we all know, whether aluminium is environmentally friendly. If the carbon track of aluminium production is calculated all the way around the world, environmental plants, such as those they do around the world, should encourage increased use and production of aluminium, especially if it occurs by renewable green energy sources. As for this, I would like to spend a little time, a respectable president, reading from the employment committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's committee of proposals to evangelize a new investor's policy, to the highest level. The Minister of Industrial Affairs set us up last spring and was taken care of from the council. It discusses exactly how we see Icelandic prolifes being built up in the coming years and decades. This may be more important than the small coverage indicated. What's special about this is that under this committee's opinion of writing along with me. Councilmen Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kristján L. Möller, Jóhann Pálsson, Felstein Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Eglursdóttir. So these are all the members of a professional committee, except for some senators, who did not want to be part of it. Might it not have been at some point a cause for joy, yet at the same time be noticed or surprised that we, these senators, may join one another in how we see Icelandic employment build up in the coming years and decades? It seemed quite remarkable to me. I'm going to read a little of this committee party, with the permission of a president: The proposal puts emphasis on projects to promote innovation in Icelandic employment and shows that the government's marketing and presentation activities take into account this emphasis. The purpose of the Parliamentary arrangement is to set out standards that reflect the government's priorities in terms of new investments. According to the proposal, the investment in new investors involves investments that increase the variety of industry, bring new knowledge and technology, and promote the competitiveness of the country. The proposal to aim for international and international investments as well as for focusing on increasing diversity and the secondary domestic activities [...] The major part of the section considers it important to follow a structured policy if it is put aside from the council and accepts indications made to the Commission that many promises not to be carried out in the administration [...] As a result of this discussion, Iceland is faced with great opportunities for international investments as foreign workers in a broad range of economic sectors. The majority were particularly concerned about the country and its status compared to dense areas, e.g. ... southwesthorn. The greater part of the country considers it important that government policies be especially viewed for the development of a wide range of employment opportunities and that it is the basis for future stability. The majority of the items indicate a difference. has the government's authority to provide special based support according to local law on the NGOs for new investors in Iceland, No. 41/2015. The more part feels it's clear that e.g. Seafood and agriculture will not remain unchanged, therefore, the key to ensuring a foundation that has been available over the past few decades and therefore it is important to provide more diverse support for the branches as well as for others. [...] I'm gonna grab on like this, with the permission of a president. Then, the majority point out that the network of electricity is urgent to strengthen the distribution system and to enhance its transport capacity to ensure enough electricity supply across the country. It has been observed that, outside southwestern and northeastern countries, there are limited potentials for building up facilities for projects requiring considerable energy. Thus, the majority suggest that the development of infrastructure in electricity distribution and transport systems is specifically directed. It was noted that energy industry and industrial activity were to be distinguished by the committee. Energy industry generally refers to an enterprise requiring e.g. Fifty-five-fifty MW before their operation, which involved e.g. A word of rejection is needed, but up to 10 MWs are needed for larger ports. There is plenty of access to energy that affords great opportunities. to promote innovation and knowledge in the technical and scientific fields. An outstanding example of this is interesting projects that have developed in full - time development. Thus, a wide range of activities, which can be said to be unique on a global scale, have been developed in connection with energy efficiency in the Southern Resource Park [...] The greater part thus encourages a special effort in the cooperation of public and employment in order to reach the country of major users in this area. - That. Data transfers. At the same time, large - scale communications through the whole country must be created by increasing the spread of fiber optics. A policy must be made that 99.9% of the population have access to connections that are at least 100 MB/s. The proposal is a transboundary reference to the work of knowledge and innovation, the industry that is designed to create something new or to improve what already exists. The course, for example, is the case. Emphasis on new investments, which promote the growth of international competitive knowledge industry, which is supported by the latest and best available technologies and environmental standards. In addition, there is talk of cooperation with Icelandic companies and investments in Icelandic innovation companies. It is important that Iceland's targets on greenhouse gas emissions are considered in the future construction of employment instruments. In this regard, the majority of the population points out that Iceland has more opportunities than many other countries have for sustainable use of renewable energy. In policy-making and decision-making, the overall image of greenhouse gas emissions should be consulted for the development of sectoral life, including In view of Iceland's commitments to the UN Climate Conference in December 2015 [...] With this commitment, the European government joined the world's progressive nations on less greenhouse gas emissions. These commitments should be guided by the assessment of environmental solutions to new investment projects and be introduced into the evaluation of new investment projects. It will not be different from carefully examining how companies solve their environment, particularly greenhouse gas emissions [...] in terms of climate targets and in general the majority of jobs feel that most jobs should be avoided against each other. For example, large amounts of carbon emissions are discussed, but the inevitable emissions of carbon from tourism to and from the country can also be identified. - Which, in fact, is more than carbon emissions from all aluminium creatures in the country, so to speak. ▪ The more important factor points out that Iceland's speciality is also a factor. in the production and distribution of green energy. In other areas Iceland's competitiveness is more difficult, such as transport, a broad range of experience and appropriate education and is primarily a shortage of industrial and technologicalised people on the land.... As mentioned above, the suggestion of this particular standard reflects the government's emphasis on new investors. The majority feel that a wide range of opportunities will have to be created in this country. In view of the greater part, it is in line with the policy that, in the future, industrial development will be considered mainly to be smaller than it might have been so far and requiring adequate energy [...] So many were words. I think it would have been a turning point at some point when representatives of the Left Green, the Independence Party, the Controversy, and the forward party could sign this vision. Of course, I have hoped that humans will be able to combine them with some conclusion that can promote this trend. It's just this way today that the rest of the country's scattered settlements are very limited. Marine and agriculture will not in the near future in nearly years, and in the future they will be assured of the stability of these sectors in recent decades. Of course, there is a very special concern now in order to provide energy to continue in this regard. As we have considered, it is entirely impossible to get some cross-cutting cooperation with the groups at the General Assembly to eliminate any part of this framework now available to make these wheels turn forward, so that the words we all wrote here have some value.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u109	A respectable president. I'm not going to give particular consideration to what was last expressed in words. The head of the business board on his great offer to keep the wheels going by tearing up a framework. I'm going to back up his comments on the reasons that are fundamental to these charges. I can't bear to mention it. He claims that the reasons for this matter are all about nature protection laws. However, in these lawsuits on which protection is based, we are talking about reference to the legislation on the protection of Lakes and Salmon years as well as planning laws, environmental impact laws, laws on the assessment of environmental impacts of implementation, electrical law and administrative laws. There must be absolute evidence that we are not merely talking about the views involved in nature protection. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council what he has to think about these announced the intervention of the Lawgiver in action by an independent committee. This is one of the tools we have in the Icelandic government. It is possible to comment on this in itself and to wonder how often this decision - making process has been taken in Iceland, where political responsibility for the outcome may not be as clear as it would be if decisions were only at the table of ministers whom men could just choose off in the next election. What does the senator think is involved, going into the jobs of an independent committee, who has indeed, and even after these legislation, a legal obligation to determine a particular matter under which to consider and have done so in this case? What is the position of the decision - appointed committee that has submitted to such legislation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u110	Of course, the lateness of all of this comes after all that has happened. I received a review of the United States Protection Agency, which was sent in October 2007. It says that since the creation of a signing proposal was followed by a meeting in Húsavík in October 2006 and again in the days. It says that while they change their views about the plans served by the organization, it is clear that the work being done in this regard is well carried out and that the structure itself is basically good, reporting basic data and trying to select and prioritize options for the program, with regard to the minimisation of environmental options. It also says that in planning large-scale energy efficiency and employment growth in individual parts of the country, rural communities in other parts of the country should be exemplary. And finally, a study in various high - temperature areas will be warned. This is written in 2007 by Land Protection. I don't know what's changed for them in all this process, but of course it must be thought that so late in the process and, among other things, on the basis of the newly established laws that humans have been going through to find a possible gap in the process. Why was this not - on the basis of what was quoted here, a respectable president, of the why? paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir - Come On Early? I am much more able to read here from a letter that comes from Country Protection at the time of the preparation of this project. National Protection has cooperated and cooperated with the communities, claiming that other rural communities in other parts of the country could set a good example for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u111	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his contribution to the discussion here, but he just did not answer the questions I raised him here in answer. First, I asked him about the intervention of the jury, regardless of the decision - making committee. I also showed him the fact of the reasons why the charges came from Land Protection. Hv. A senator is concerned about the rapid and reliable outcome of events, and he is made up of a series of facts regarding national protection. He believes that national protection is a rather late feature of these comments. This does not change the reality of the fact that, fortunately, we have legislation that the subversive movement of national protection has reached its level. Well, at least not at all. A senator will be bored with that, then. I want to pray. A senator tearing it in reply, and trying to stick to what I'm asking him, how he feels about the continuation of the landnet in this truly relevant matter. Landset has drawn its feet in this matter. In many ways, though, the situation that has come up is just as much as teaching that the Landsnet has not kept a flash on the subject. I also, a respectable president, think that certain viewpoints are in an upset situation if we are lightly involved with the fact that we want to protect unorthodox areas and that lava has had a place in nature protection laws for decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u112	A respectable president. There is no servile in signed out to Land Protection or anyone else in this matter. I'm going to ask people not to misunderstand me in that regard. I just can't say I'm missing on Landsnet's side. I don't know the case that way I can express myself about it. They'll have to ask that question in that town. Fortunately, we have been taking in charges, opening up for the public and society and communities. It's good. But we must ask ourselves, under these circumstances, what the future will look like, especially with regard to what I read here as a common view of innovation and construction, especially in the scattered settlements. It is quite clear that neither domestic nor foreign investors will have a larger investment project on the country if the last record can be sullied and resolved. It's clear that it doesn't work. Or do some think about the project that was started on Backka during the last term - which some have now wanted to call a business of the left green, and I thank them for looking to the country in this regard and representing this structure there - that investors would have come to this assignment if there were any members in the community who could sue and stop the project? Once it had been financed, built into that equipment, invested for dozens, if not for hundreds of billions of dollars on the project, could someone come and sue and stop? [[The president calls.]] No, if we're going to have any chance of building up on the basis of what I read back here, we're going to have to pull ourselves together and have this process so that it will intervene at the right time, but we won't be afraid to do it once they're on the move.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u113	Madam President. I'm mainly going to have a few words on history, i.e. Action at Bakka in the Southern Parliament, provided for, and particularly as a result of verbal exchange earlier in the debate between the highest. Minister and minister. paritaprevir They're Ólafsdóttir. It has become a long story, a plan, or a human expectation of making some use of the energy in the high - temperature areas of the Netherlands. As long as I've been in politics, and now for a few years, as it is known, plans of various kinds have hovered over lakes, some may not become more than ideas in human heads or on papers and paper, while others may get farther. There have been some ideas in the past, like paper or tree collaborators, sauerkraut factories, and for years, this community was waiting for a giant aluminum plant. Many people had all their hopes that they would break into the history of the work structure and build up in this area. I was against them, and I wasn't thanking everywhere because I thought they were unrealistic and really undefeated in various ways, in a environmental perspective, and in the long term benefit of them for the successful and stable development of this region, but I did not deny that the South Parliament County and, in part, the northeast corner has been built a weak zone and has had problems in the past few years. In other words, there was a weak link in the chain between the Eyjafjörður and the Central East or the East Coast, a combination of age has been becoming less adverse and the population has been considerably reduced. So it is not that a person lacks understanding that there is hope that commercial innovation can lift the area. It has been blessed since, and the tourism industry has become extremely important in this area, flourishing like a whale inspection from Húsavík, etc. The plans for giant factories, whether it had been an acidic factory or an aluminium that had absorbed 500, 600 megawatts of electricity, were considered, in my opinion, from the first day perfectly irresponsible. It was simply because such factories had been absorbed on one board and took to heart any potential high - temperature energy in the Þingals, the expected river Shivering, and could hardly have been enough if it had been fully activated, so men looked for either in front of the energy added to the glacier on the Mountains or from the lakes of Skavegur. This also contained the amazing fault, which I think we have learned for life now, that men thought they could sit down at a desk and calculate the potential efficiency of high - temperature areas, even unexploited high - temperature areas, as if it were no problem to activate them on one board in a single step, one phase. What, then, is the experience of acting in such a way? I guess they know something about it from Hellishe activation. Therefore, there will be no rights to say but that the change in these issues in particular during 2011 was very successful, and we supported and supported it in those cases. Instead of plans for giant factories that had absorbed all this energy through massive environmental sacrifices and left nothing left behind for future generations, the policy of man's looking at small and medium-sized industrial instruments that could build up and taking relatively modest amounts of energy began. In that direction the situation is followed by new declarations of will and then a discussion with the company of PCC. What, then, do we see today in these fundamental parts of history about energy efficiency and protection and peace in this area, which, of course, also contains many of the most precious elements in the country? Yes, building on Backka right now will be enough for the first stage of activation of The States alone, which, of course, had already been opened with the research models, etc. and realize that the time would be in some way activated. A coven based on earlier ideas has come to be a protection party. That's the last one in the frame plan. Strictly controversial and weak activation in this area, most of us natureists were in the eye of a great bramble. For a council, there is a proposal for sorting, framework proposal, where the river Shivers and the river glaciers of Skavetir are put into a protection party. Let's assume that Jackzáz has finally come to safety. The idea of it as part of a Lake Earth park and as a peace - informed nation, the park takes to glaciers from recordings to sea and from trays. Then we are faced with a very different picture. All of this, in my opinion, is a remarkable improvement from what was going on right up to 2009/2010. We're talking about a different reality right now. Only in the back and where the industry has been contributed to opening it up as a confirmation or industrial possibility. That's right. paritaprevir Björt Ólafsdóttir to the investment agreement and involvement of state and rural society is larger in this first stage than in some other countries, i.e. To some extent, it is more appealing, but especially more direct participation in the necessaryinvestment. This has never been kept secret. From the beginning it was clear that this would have to be necessary if it were to be realistic to draw to the cooperation of parties in a new area, as it were, in this sense. All of this support has been removed and tested and has been fully approved including of the European Economic Environment Agency, ESA. He is completely and far within the framework of what Iceland is permitted to do under similar circumstances. This is a single cost of living, i.e. There is an investment in the future in infrastructure, which may then be useful for further efforts in the construction of employment in this area. I think it's a great opportunity for Iceland to increase the possibilities from two, three to three, four, that it's not just attached to the Grundartanga or the southwestern corner, and maybe Central East, that men can turn down this kind of industrial activity which takes some particular amount of energy to them. These projects are of a range of sizes that are very different and more manageable for the area and labour market than for e.g. The major projects were on the east side. There is good reason to believe that this structure can function in such a way that no supersonics, not overexperiences that will be out of control during the period of construction and relapses and lumbermen after them. What is most tempting is that if the development could become even and good in these areas and then some small and medium-sized company would be added to the region. This could then be a relatively successful structure that would strengthen the entire Middle-Northern and the northeastern country and, of course, become a very well - developed development in the community and for other reasons. There are also many factors involved in looking to some use of energy that comes close to the source. This means translating less transport problems, less loss of energy, and a number of pragmatic benefits. So I'm not afraid to stand here and measure what was done there as a result of the great change in the subject of 2011, and this has, in my opinion, changed for the better position on the pressures of nature prices in these areas. It has helped to contribute to the original protection party of nature bulbs in the novelities and thus to continue. In this regard, however, it is very difficult and complicated. The situation we've got is really pathetic. It follows that the type of intervention suggested in the bill is extremely difficult. It's got to be a double energy to bring in one. But the situation is also very twisted, as the accompanying documents clearly show and are recognized by the media coverage. This, of course, is very shocking if on a large combination of projects agitating that will happen to one party in the chain stop all the rest with related damage and trouble. What should this teach us? I think this should teach us to do it, and hopefully this situation will never again be discovered or needed for a bill of this kind, and will never be an example like that, that it will not work out in a row to have someone leave until it's all set. It has to be like that. If the timelines in this situation are not changed and so you can tell that everything must always be met in one point, then I think that it will be conditioned to the implementation of other people's licenses that all the others have green lights so that such things cannot happen. Maybe you should have thought about this in the Southnes. Of course, it is futile for some to begin a major project and investments while there is still uncertainty as to whether everyone on a combined project will be able to land. There is no benefit in offering the risks of such an outcome. The timeline in how the assessment process and then the version of the project set up in this combination project must be reviewed and/or somehow walk so that such a situation cannot arise because, of course, no one wants to land on this project and it shouldn't be that way. It should also be possible to ensure to the end the rights that humans have to test the legitimateness of government decisions, allowing version, and so forth. Of course, that right is also what we want to respect. I think this must give us a reason to revise this, and I've heard of agents who have been working on this case lately, as lawmen do, that they think the legislation should be so prepared that such a situation can arise. It's kind of incredible. If we compare this to any other major projection and negotiations, it is often the case that has not been negotiated until everything has been negotiated. Is that not the case in collective agreements? Is it not often that way when complex combinations are being developed, but they say: Nothing has been negotiated until everything has been negotiated. It's not a deal yet, it's not a result until the end of the whole thing has been screwed. I think it has to be like that. Of course, it's impossible for societies, industrial companies, energy companies, the state itself, to get into great harm because there is one person left behind. That's the last thing I was going to mention, Mrs. President, it's impossible to avoid mentioning that the Landsnet company is here a significant responsibility for how it came to be. It's perfectly obvious. They were very late in these matters, perhaps they had not even looked to enough of the legislation involved, and they land as their last ship, and if there are problems on their voyage, everything is in a state of confusion. I think there's a blessed business to think highly of as far as it is concerned that it's in time on its way with its share of such work as this. Then, its relations with a nature protection organization and such parties are clearly involved. We can't have that. You need to be able to talk and listen to one another's viewpoints in time when such things are in the water, and you have to be very difficult to communicate about something important. I hope that the members of this committee are doing a good job of considering this very difficult case, which is not as simple as previously said and, in fact, sad that we should be in the situation of having it here in our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u114	A respectable president. I'd like to be here just at the end of the day to address a few of the points that have been discussed in this discussion, and I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. A controversy and careful discussion of the matter. First, I'd like to respond to the last thing that happened. A speaker said. I can totally agree that we need to learn that lesson from this and that we change the arrangement for these types of projects in that once decisions have been made, all the process prepared, that men can trust that there will be no return. It was by correction of the electrical energy system in the earlier season when we changed a system plan into the electronic law and brought in a lawsuit and a review process into the future. This was not to reduce the public's lawsuits or limit access to the public and, after events of nature protection and other stakeholders in the process, but to move it to the level to which it should be carried out in preparation, to prevent this from happening. The lesson I'm learning from this is, first of all, that the whole process is way too complicated, so we need to look at it. And also, it's not enough, as we clearly see, to make changes in electrical law, these are law columns that hear under many departments, and the administrations need to be coordinated on this issue. I will use that view to start the first, so we can learn a lesson from this and keep us from being in a similar situation again. In this matter of communication between Landsnet and others, I feel compelled to bring only the defense of Landsnet. They can, of course, look at themselves and see if something had been done in a different way. But I still remind you that this process, like cot. A senator was a good shaver before, has been very long. I had it brought together, and I can read about it on a paper in which these lines have been exactly in the administration and in a public discussion and in a public review from 2006 to today or for ten years. First of all, they have been discussed in a national protection and agriculture programme for high temperature areas in the Northeast. That was in 2006. It included extensive consultations. At land protection, the protection of the Parliament, SUNN, a coalition of nature protection in the North. This was adopted in all the rural governments of the region in 2006, ten years ago. Second, the regional level of high - temperature areas of the Parliament Countys 2007-52025. That was approved in 2008. It also contained extensive consultations, all sorts of introductions, requests, comments, including Land Protection, which had no comment on the high - tension lines. Since then, assessment of environmental impacts has been made of a high-voltage line set by the Krpant and the Theist teams at Húsavík, a Strulley, a Leading vane, the House of Germany, and the Northern Parliament. It was 2010. It was widely consulted, and comments were made on a final and final suggestion, but no comments from Land Protection. There were comments in this process on the primary assessment report. A national protection request was made that both lines be provided all the way, but permission for the second line has not been applied and the other line may not be. It was thought that after passing through an aluminium, it was necessary to have two parallel lines. Fourth, we have a common assessment of the environmental impact of aluminium plants on Back, the Trinitarian Idolisations, the Second Gravitational Functions, and a high-voltation line from the Krpans and Theist Eyes of Bakka at Húsavík. This is 2010. Fifth, the main organization of the North Council 2010◯2030 and the change of major structure. There's electrical access to backwaters. There was one comment, not from Land Protection or other stakeholders. The main organization of the United States of the United States, 2010 - 22022. There were three reviews, including. From the EEA, not from Country Protection or other stakeholders. The main straggler's straggler for 2013. Two comments were received, not from Country Protection or other stakeholders. Kraft Line 4, that was in 2016. At that time, this license was reported on Land Protection and Fereg in a Lake United States. Perhaps that is why we are here today because the ban was accepted. The Marketing Authorisation for the Crime Line 4 was charged, too. This year's European Parliament's European Parliament on Theistar Arty, too, was charged. And do not agree with the command to stop there. Then the Constitution of the United States for Theistargeinline 1, which agreed to a part off-limit requirement. Thus, it is quite clear in this process all that Land Protection and all other people with interest in fixing a high-voltage line from the Calves that Bakka has had many opportunities to comment and to influence the process. However, this has been done only at the late stage, i.e. ... becauseof the projections. It's something, and that's where I'm back with what. A senator to whom we need to change. These processes need to talk, so to speak, and prevent this from happening again. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter, however, pointed out that lava is not recently protected, so that is not what this controversy is all about. The decision isn't whether it's protected. The analysis was about whether the work permit was valid due to changes in nature protection laws involved in certain reporting procedures. Three registrations were charged, one community did it correctly, and sent it back for review; the other two communities did not, since they thought they had done it or waited at the earlier stage of this case. So there is no question that lava is to be protected in some specific way. With regard to the self-deliberation rights of a community, which is what it is. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir also asked about, so now this is done with the full approval of these rural partners. The law firm we were looking for found that this did not affect this important right, which is a community self - determination. But also, I wanted to promote, which I've already done in this discussion, that this is done with full consent and, indeed, by their request, as a law on oversight of the project as if they themselves had allowed them to operate. I'll let it go. The employment committee after searching for what they think, but if it is a formal search by the Environment Committee or by no means, I leave it to the Committee. I want to reiterate how important it is that this matter be fulfilled as soon as possible, and I really hope that we will succeed in doing so in the following days, thanking again for the members of the council in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u115	A respectable president. Here I recommend a bill of temporary reimbursement for recording music, which is certainly much more positive than what we just finished. It's all over. 1621, and No. 854. As explained in the bill, the Icelandic music industry has been increasing in recent years, becoming one of Iceland's most important industrys, producing a considerable number of jobs on a yearly basis. In recent years, Icelandic musicians have made a good statement abroad, and they have become an enormously important land presentation. It has been said that many foreign musicians and musicians in the country and the nation have been interested in foreign musicians and have also caused foreign musicians to translate music into the country. Despite the rapid growth in the way of Icelandic music, however, recent productions in Iceland have been drawn together. You can even say that. Because of the failure of electronic sales of music, sales on audio have failed. In addition, the local music industry enjoys difficult work conditions because of small markets and limited financial resources. In the 2013 Declaration of the Government, it is recommended that music enjoys the same invigorating elements as filmmaking, i.e. that a part of the cost of recording will be reimbursed. In accordance with this, it is the will of this government to promote the Icelandic music industry in this country by supporting the audio recording of music, as suggested by the bill I recommend here. The bill is based on the basis of the same ideologies and reimbursement laws for filmmaking in Iceland, which have been one of the reasons for the development of the film industry in recent years, with positive economics and cultural impacts. The effects of such legislation have been very visible both in the film industry and in the general post marketing of Iceland. Our goal is to achieve the same results through the music industry. I think that there are every assumptions that we can do so. The key elements of the bill are as follows: The objective of the bill is to promote the music industry as a local industry by temporarily granting the publishers of audio recordings the right to reimburse some of the cost of the audio recording in this country. The publishers in this respect can be both companies and individuals. According to the bill, you can apply for reimbursement at a part of the cost that matches the audio recordings of music here in a country that has been published and made available to the public. A drop of 80% in Iceland is permitted to pay up to 25% of the cost in the European Economic Area. It is necessary to have the exception of where the costs fall in order to meet the EEA Convention on Free Service. The bill suggests that the application for reimbursement is returned to the Ministry within six months of the publication of an audio recording form and that a special four committee will review applications and offer proposals for reimbursement. For audio recordings to be available, the combined playing time must reach 30 minutes, the audio recording must be released over the same 18 month period as the latest audiograph should not exceed six months. There are conditions for various sources of information, that the audio literature has received ISRC code and has been paid its dues and that the publisher should not overexpensively pay taxes or fees. According to the bill, it is permitted to reimburse up to 25% of the remuneration costs. Remuneration costs are listed in Article 6. the bill as a sound time bill, the pay cost for artists and/or technicians, the travel and transport costs for instruments and main immigrants and their own jobs. By having a defined cost as a remuneration cost, the system is looking to have been reduced and more efficient. The bill suggests that the same publisher cannot get more than 30 million. K. Remuneration over a period of three years. Is this done to keep the reimbursement system within the EEA's Constitution rules for so-called secondary assistance, i.e. State assistance which is not specifically reported to ESA. If the applicant has been given the official strength to publish the same audio, that strength should come to the deduction. It is suggested that the duration of the law will be temporary for five years, from January 1, 2017, and it is recommended that prior to its completion, an effectiveness assessment of the effects of the law on the sound of music should be performed on the country. It should be noted that the bill was composed by the Ministry's staff who served as representatives of the music industry, a partner of the album producers, and other stakeholders. In terms of financial impacts, it is difficult to estimate who will include reimburse applications and how many applications will be applied to the bill. The cost of recording music may vary greatly, and costs may vary greatly between tasks and artists. The staff involved in making the bill made a rough plan in collaboration with several publishing companies at the cost of recording music, which falls below the standard range of the bill. According to this schedule, the average reimbursement for each approved application is expected to be about 625 you. K. If 130 approved applications are expected each year, the estimated total cost for direct reimbursement will be about 81 million. K. every year. A respectable president. I believe if this bill is approved, it will be a great advance for the Icelandic music industry, and I hope we here at the General can achieve a solid solid solidarity on its progress. I fully appreciate that this issue is late. It was estimated that it would appear during the next session. However, when it became clear that the season would be cut short, it was given to try to try to get the case out of order before the end of the council so that we could start this process. This is a new arrangement, and there are no models in other countries, so I know. Our role model in this is the film - making system that has shown and proved to be a positive influence on the area under which we live. Thus, in our neighboring countries, there is no direct parallel to such a global system. With the approval of the bill, Iceland would be developing a certain positive unique position and would therefore be very competitive with our neighboring states when it comes to the recording of music. This is likely to be an incentive for foreign musicians to come and record music in Iceland, and Icelandic musicians who are doing major projects abroad may also be able to see the benefits of bringing them back to the country. The result is increased knowledge in this article, more activity and sponsorship in the music industry in Iceland, as we have seen the impact of legislation on reimbursement due to film making in Iceland. I know of a number of projects on the load team, I can name the work that is done north of them in the cooperation of Hiff, the Symphonian Orchestra and other non-fiction parties in which they are filming music by Örvarsson Ölarsson there, and I would think that further projects could arise or come to this country if this motive was developed. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the case be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u116	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1107, which is the 679th issue, a bill that is involved in changing the law of marine crops, the government of fishing, and the price of fishing. The bill suggests that there will be rules about what is mentioned in the bill. This refers to the beating of the seams and the gatherings of the seams. We know that every place where rocks, cheerleaders, and big rocks come out of the sea at a beach in Iceland Most of them are clones in Iceland, and they are cloven up the species in the local United States, both in Iceland and in other countries where similar activities are practiced, e.g. correspondent in Norway, Canada, and Britain During the Bjords, where there is a long experience in this activity, there are countless shields, chips, and islands, which create in a relatively small area a very large shoreline. At the same time, there is much difference between floods and tides. This makes it a big part of the crew in the furrows. Many people are aware that in the early 1970's, a special factory was set up for drying on the seas on the Smokelands at Rhinejanesi, a Rholah carpet. When that work began, it consisted of much pioneer work that many came to, both private members of the province, counselors, and institutions. During the period of land, the use of the raw materials had to be developed as a means of recovery, collection, industrialisation, and, of course, drying. The most important ingredient of the factory's translation at Rhandols has been cloned since its beginning, but it has also been used there. The seaweed is taken outside at the Fráfjord with the so - called tugster that grabs it. These include two kinds of seaweed, horses there, and large seaweed. The ground temperature of the Rhools was the basis for the factory to rise there. For example, a portable dryer used to extract flour from the seaside and the seaside was developed by Icelandic operators at the time with the help of the Fish Institute for Research and became a model for more than 20 droughts used in many parts of the country during the drought of cod heads. It is a joy to see that recently a factory was set up next to the Smokehla factory that extracts salt from the Breunnaut, using a demolition water from the factory. It rhymes well with our Iceland's aim that the use of our natural resources is sustainable and that there are ways to increase value. The smoke floor work seems to be fine; it is the natural foundation of the village in the West. The line is explained by the bill of what I recommend here for the development of the fish and the sea in the Creat has not been subject to direct observation or to the administration of public bodies. No rules have been set to form mowers or amputating tools, registration of income, or treatment. It should be assumed that this was not a reason to make such rules. Heart rate has been improved in consultation with local beach owners, but the tide is only growing on the beach and so on, within the marine grid. The lead factory of the Rhandols will have rented its beat frames to independent contractors who have gained great knowledge in individual mowing areas. It is important for us to be selective in this regard and to learn from this experience. In recent losses, we have noted an increased interest in the use of seams and seams, which seems to be mostly or entirely of interest to the British farm. At least two parties intend to start such activity in the near future, as it were. has been shown in the media. This increase in interest appears to be related to good markets, but increasing demand seems to be for use in all kinds of industry, including as a chemical substance and an in-use preparation material. Various algae products are desirable for improving taste, appearance, and loyalty, increasing demand for biotechnology, and even for health or medicine. It is a pleasure to see that development, but further development of the land's raw materials must be a debate on the part of the government of the United States. I especially want to know in terms of the recent development of economic policies for Iceland, i.e. How governments, careers, and citizens can strengthen our financial systems. The increased interest in efficiency will prompt the implementation of the rules for the establishment of marine vegetation as directed by the bill I recommend here. In this regard, I find special attention to the fact that more emphasis is expected to be given to research on the river and the Breas needed and to influence ecosystems use, but the increased research of the Marine Research Agency on this field is discussed in an explanation by the bill. Then I'd like to conclude that the bill has been in the General for quite a while, unfortunately, without being recommended and referred to a committee. I hope, however, that harmony works to resolve it for Congress solutions. I also want to mention that the Ministry has consulted with key stakeholders in the past few months. There have been several suggestions on changing the bill that I would like to direct to the job committee to take into account or to consider and treat. The bill gives an overview of its impact on the wealth of the state. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed discussion of the bill and explain its contents. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u117	Madam President. V.E.G. A marine and agricultural minister has recommended a bill to set up a law on the transformation of marine crops, the government of fishing and the law on fishing costs, or the creation of marine vegetation for commercial purposes. I'd like to start by saying that I think it's very good that we can use seaga, seagull and seaweed in this case to increase the diversity of the nation's businesses, so I agree with them fully. As I'm about to arrive in my speech, there are other points on the subject that at least I think are right to ask a few questions. First, I'd like to mention that, like the highest. The minister himself stated in his case some of the years have passed since this case had been established. Actually, I looked it up and the case was given here April 4th. It's first now, and if we don't count that day, which is already done here at the council, where this is the last case on the agenda, there are four days left of the General Assembly's revised strategy. They realize that there is not much time left for this. The job committee to investigate and examine, if it wants to be the highest. Minister to proceed before election. It seems that there is a measure of pressure and a great hurry to the end of this matter. Well, I guess I went to a meeting. A work board with just a few minutes in advance, as sometimes happens in today's rush at the General, arrived at the Sea Scourge and agricultural Ministry and was presenting details of this bill to members of the Committee, and without measuring for the bill. I feel that there is pressure on this issue to go through the council quickly. I think it's a reason to stop at it on its own and put a question mark on that job. Today, this certainly is not the most complex and complex issue in the last days of the council. Granted, there are still other bigger, more complex issues that are also being set up for the past few days, and they may first mention changes in social security laws. to increase the pension age, as well as the bill on the government's pension fund, which is much bigger than this and more complex. Yet, this matter can be said to be part of a larger group and to be gathered when it comes together. Madam President. As I told you before, I'm all for using sea-efficiency, but I think it's extremely important, like when it comes to our other resources here or in the country, that we're good at the resource and we're enjoying it in a sustainable way. This was shown in the presentation at which it was held. A work board of government officials from the seaside and agricultural department says that the Agency is working on its research and development, and as noted in the text of the bill, research is now being carried out, but some evidence is involved. In fact, it was mentioned at a meeting of some. A professional committee I have referred to said several times that some conclusions were to be expected even immediately in November. I find it important in such a situation that you take care of the earth, and therefore you think that if you expect the results for a month, maybe one and a half months, it's better to go slow, let the natural world enjoy the doubt and wait for better information, because there is a delicate state of life. It has also been so pointed out and found even. An article on the Internet on the Web snowcrows points to what is called the forest of the sea, which I think is a rather beautiful word for the sea and sea, they are the basis for all living things in the Fragle and point out that it spawns, e.g. The grey leak and the vasocarbon feed their young in the cloven pits, pointing out that overinvolved in seawater and jam, it will interfere with the existence of this environment. So I believe that, of course, it is good and important to examine the rate of growth, such as the Marine Research Institute. to investigate in order to make sure that these vegetation can be taken at a time and how long the area needs rest, this environment must be examined in a larger context. So I don't like nature that this is too much, and I don't wait for the results of research that are at least some part of it, so to speak, across the corner. I think it would be more beneficial to this industry and it will be more likely to thrive in the future if we do our basic work well. This means waiting at least for the results of the laboratory tests that are short - lived, although tests need to be continued. I think this is actually starting at the wrong end, starting with a review of how to appoint men or companies allow the resource to be used, and much closer to starting the studies, so that they have the basis for something that will hopefully happen in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u118	A respectable president. There's some debate about whether this is an answer or something else, but thank you very much. A senator for a fine speech. I'd like to explain a few things a little bit better. You're right, it's been going on for quite a while. This week, the person standing here has had to wait to speak the case normally, because other matters have been on the program, but the matter in itself is not very complicated or elaborate, if that is the case. They are primarily thinking about managing this resource, these are the first steps they take to control the project. With the bill it's not starting to authorize rights, there's nothing in this that says that, after it's approved at the council, gone out and using the resource more than it's done today. It is mainly being created, framed in this resource, starting to take those steps. Then, of course, we will see how big the resource is or how useful it is, and then we will take into account it. We thought right because of the interest that is present today, we might increase the existing value, better use it, new people want to come in, start by putting this frame around the operation, and then we'll start with the other thing when there's a possibility that the resource can be large or small, depending on how we define it. It is also very important that we show up here that we want to have a good conversation with the main professionals about this matter and that we have taken our time to do so. That is one reason why we may have been doing so slowly. The other is that this is also a great opportunity for any of the communities under which the economy is established in this industry, as it were, for the new person to come in if the resource tolerates it. We'll remember, I agree with what. A senator with that, of course, does not take any chances with the use of the resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u119	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of the Antiquity and for further clarifying the matter. I like it if we at least agree that we have to be careful here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u120	I agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-23-156.u121	That's what I think is a very valuable starting point, and it's always the most delicate of nature. It's like the highest. A minister also mentioned that there are new members wanting to enter. I believe that if they are interested in coming in there, they will be observing what is being done here, and I believe that that this is why the Allied Council needs their treatment of the matter to make it very clear that we want to go to the earth with caution. The reason I bring this up is because I'm serious about it. I fully understand that this can be of great importance to the Snæfellsnes, or to the Bresafjörður, where people can make a big difference in their professional terms, but I want to reiterate that this is exactly why I stress that the research work is well cared for before going to another job because it is the very way we can build up for the future.
