ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u1	A respectable president. I'm here at the President's conference board at the beginning of a conference meeting because I have questions about Congress and I'm thirsty for the answers to certain questions that come to me and I know other members of Congress. I have understood that working on Senate committees is a key matter. Now it's leaving, for example. ... threedaysof a series of committees in which we will only sit on members of the council. That is why it helps me understand that there is one private senator among us who is not on any committee. That's why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, who was formerly prime minister, now a senator. He's at a full Senate contract and he's actually at 50% of the pressure on party leaders, and he's with an assistant, too. Are there examples that ordinary members of Parliament do not sit on any council committee and thus do not participate in committee work, so that it is not spoken of as not going to vote and not speaking in the Ponta IIs? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Has the President made any comments about this? [[The president calls.]] Has he made such comments available to a convention party of the Agency? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u2	For example, the president has not examined historical evidence that individual members of the Parliament have not served for a longer or less time in the council committees. This is a matter primarily in the hands of members of Congress. It is, as we know, the members of Congress who make a decision on a committee in the power of the council that the members of the Parliament have. Never has it been so that the president is aware that the president was involved in such a problem, which would likely be considered an abnormal interference on the part of a president regarding that order. However, the president does not trust to answer the following questions. A senator refers to a man who knew each other in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u3	President. Of course, I can say that it should not be in the President's line of work to order members of Congress to determine whether or not they are on committees. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that now it's about to begin a major economic and commercial situation. There was a great deal of work to be done by a senator. What a privilege it would be to get what we need! A member of the committee to lighten the load to other members of Congress, and in reality, it is amazing that such work is placed on the shoulders of other members of Congress, which we really need to get help from. A senator to come to the council quickly and well, but I expect to be quiet. A senator is an expert on the issues of the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u4	As a result, the president wants to state that the Economic and Business Committee is highly organized, as the other committees of the Parliament and what to do. Parliaments sitting there are fully equipped to meet these challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u5	A respectable president. I intend to use my right to come up here again to respond to the highest answers. President. I realize that the freedom of the senators to manage their affairs is very much. But I wonder because here we are talking about an example given, aren't we? If all members of Congress decide not to come to votes, not to speak, not to members of the Senate committees, what would be the Senate job? Is this the most desirable example being set? Can I decide on my own that now I'm not going to be involved in any action, and I'm not really going to do anything else at a council, but I'm still willing to accept a Senate contract? Isn't there any reason to make comments about this, chief? Mr President, so this example isn't given? There'll probably be a lot of recent action at the council after the election. Do we want an example to be seen in that people can only decide not to serve on committees? What, then, will happen to the Senate work? What, then, will happen to the Senate's discussion of bills? These aren't exactly satisfying answers, I think, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u6	The president attempted to answer the questions asked earlier. Of course, there is always room for debate about the answers of a president, such as something that stumbles from the lips of people here in the chamber. Of course, it is the general rule, as we know, that members of Congress operate on committees. But there is no solemn obligation under the law of the General Assembly. So this is a free choice by members of Congress. And as the president has called it, these are the members of Congress who decide in what way and in the light of their Council strength how and whether they put in their committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u7	President. What brings me up here today is news from the police in the capital area that last July more sexual crimes have been reported in the capital area than since August 2013. It seems that this trend continues in August and has, in fact, continued. Otherwise, four rapes were reported last night in Reykjavík. This is a serious matter for me, and it is true to put women in it, for most of the women who are beaten by these slaves cannot be safe in Reykjavík. We don't have any information about these fractures, i.e. We don't have information about their nature, they're missing. You need to know if circumstances are similar in these matters. You need to know if women are being drugged. We need to know, for we are faced with action to prevent this trend. The most important prevention must be taken in directing the light to men - much more - of - the - man bacteria of this language. This means that early young boys need to be taught how you do not treat women. This needs to be taught, and men need to take action and talk to other men about the lack of the practice and the need to partake of mercy in order to do their will toward women. Therefore, Mr. President, I urge that the police in the area where the city had been established and the Gangamoth would join us, informing us more about the circumstances of the issues involved, so that measures can be taken to prevent these indiscriminate developments.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u8	Mr. President. Yesterday we are summed up by one reason why politics and discussions in Iceland are in serious trouble when the chairman and vice president of a legal committee announced a press conference on a so - called report entitled Personalization of the Second Banks. A report of a problem. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir is told of by and for the majority of the budgetary committees, but no one formally uses his name to her. It has not been formally presented, nor has its content and content been submitted to the committee for discussion, and we in the smaller section of the budget board make this serious remarks. This appeared to me as a member of Congress's homework, building more and more on the cutters of other reports put together in one of the conspiracys that then the secretary of finance would be doing the business of foreign demands. It is obvious that the chairman and vice president of the legal committee are abusing the committees in a meaningless political expedition. I can't help but ask for someone else's response. The members of the Parliament, the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir, Ásmundur Einar the son of Daðason, and Páll the Jóhann of Pálsson. Do you agree with the format of the report and the content and the charge it presents? If so, do you disagree? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, who won the case on a board of administration and surveillance committee? The above charges are basically the same. paritaprevir Brigs Níelsson's armor was in consideration, but he concluded that the charges regarding the survival of the former minister of finance and the Ministry of finance in the restoration of the banking system were out of the question. Many acts of the government that sat during the last term can be criticized, but the way of making the banks recycled was successful. The Kingdom's growth of that money is so beyond acceptable and will be used for further construction on the land. It would be almost possible for political groups to discuss how these funds can be set aside for further building up in Iceland. During the campaign, groups should offer people a vision of the future rather than expose themselves to the political ultimatum.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u9	V.E.G. President. When I asked if there were no adoptions from a refugee camp, I received many and varied reactions. I would never think of suggesting that children whose parents are out there be taken from them. Of course, I'm looking at the children who have watched many of their families become bombs and bullets prey, relatives are more distant, and/or have no ability to care for them. Today, children and young girls of that camp disappear almost every day, and that is not because their parents or relatives came and picked them up. This is because they are viewed as cheap labor and good good good good good goods in a man's room. Kids that no one's looking for because there's nobody left to look for. Mant sal smugglers are now using refugee camps as cheap stop stations for their products smuggled from other countries. Are we really shutting down any possibility that someone of these children could be given a secure future, love, and care, with the help of all the relief workers that work there? Not even the children who lose their parents after they came to a refugee camp, so there is no doubt that they will stand alone? There are five - year - olds who can describe in detail the way their parents were murdered and the future facing those in overcrowded refugee camps, i.e. If they're lucky and don't end up in the hands of criminals. There are figures that nearly half of the children who are not en route to European refugee camps disappear each year, many in less than 48 hours after their arrival, and many of them are never found again. Some children are deliberately separated from their families by smugglers and husbands. Mr. President. I'm going to ask those involved and all of the people involved: Is there really no possibility, and is this really such a crazy question to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u10	President. It has to be admitted that I am a little confused about our report or the report made by the ◯ larger sections of the budget board. It's not a Senate document, it's just a question. paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þór and what. þm. Vigdís Hauksdottir, they appear to be prominent men, prefects, and spokesmen, but mostly whiskers. þm. Vigdís Hauksdótttir. It had been formally discussed on the case where there was supposed to be a miscommunication in the administrative department, the relevant committee, a board of administration and monitoring committee. That's when it came back. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, a member of the Parliament's Constitution. He feels that there was no doubt about it. I think it's the strangest thing to do, Mr. President, in all places. Maybe I'll get some answers here. Maybe answer the question. Senators of the budget board, we are members of Congress, who consider this matter to be strange in all places. How beneficial it would be to hear from other members of the body members of the greater part of the legal committee about their participation in this work! It is surprising, if this is done on the commission of the Committee, that the smaller part is not informed for yesterday's press conference on the input of a report presented in the Council's Constant Committee. I don't think it's easy for me to find out that neither the former secretary of finance nor any other vice president of the budget committee, anyway. paritaprevir This has been informed by Oddný Harðardóttir, who had the opportunity to study this report or essay before the press conference was held. Then, in the news today, the president's permission is: ▪ Asked to see if the report is official and will be published as other Parliamentary documents, the Guðlaugur Court says that the next step and way the report will be set up will still be determined. Helgi the Mt. Bernódusson's office manager, Aldus, Il.is, it says that for documents from committees to be published, they need to go through the committee. I have to say, Mr President, this is quite an amazing practice, and the council will put it out of order. [[The president calls.]] It has to be said at the moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u11	A respectable president. Then the Independence Party has held five re-tests in the last days and chosen to be listed by a list of districts in one case, during the last days. During the next few days, the volunteer lists of the Independence Party will be seen in the six ideals of the country. Thousands of party party parties have taken part in these requisitions and have chosen a list according to their own conscience. In this way, the Independence Party has a complete position among Iceland's political resources on how to select a group of people who are involved in a large number of people, take part in the ratings, and participate in the work of the party. [[For example, in the matter of duty of the council?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u12	This is the job of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u13	It's the list of the tribe and the people's lists, but it's certainly different by then. þm. Birgitta Jóndóttir. [[Up front.]] Of course, there are not many others who are called in for a choice on the list.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u14	We have a thousand people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u15	And then there's only one person in the rest, and he picks a living or a dead one on the list. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] So I don't think you should have any now, huh? A senator, having a lot of sense of how to choose a list when you're sitting on your own, scrambling out those you don't like.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u16	Don't go with me...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u17	You're just interrupting my speech so I couldn't say what I was going to say. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u18	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u19	You should just... you should be careful not to... [["BirgJ, stop lying in there."]] [[Take it up:]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president asks for a sound (BirgJ: stop lying.) In the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u20	Stop lying.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u21	in the conference hall.) Distract me when you throw people into the ocean from your arts day after day. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is not how the Independence Party works. We let the people in the category choose, and then he agrees with them in large and large meetings. There's no one man out there who throws nobody out. We have peace of mind about the requisitions. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u22	The president asks for a sound in the councilroom and asks for it. Councilmen, whether on a speaker or from their seats, are careful about what they say. This was not done in the discussion that took place here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u23	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of 2014, the highest standards were made. Social Affairs Minister of a team to review laws on people who are disabled and local social services. In addition, I have a large number of representatives of the local community, council members, members of society, social directors, Developmental aid, the National Association of the Older Citizens, the Microcracy and the Church. It is a powerful group that has been active in the revision, which includes paying for the introduction of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, but it still awaits validations despite having been signed many long years ago by Iceland on March 30, 2007. At the beginning of the summer, there were a number of initials. Another is the bill for a new law on service to disabled people, who are expected to replace existing laws that highlight the regulations of services taking into account and conforming to the United Nations Convention. The other is the change in rural social services laws to deal with the development of community, and this is also consistent with the new legislation. Now, in the work force, we are finishing our work on working out comments received earlier in the summer and in these last days and setting up a report. Today's council meeting is at the top of the Convention's resolution proposal. Secretary of State to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. It's a good idea to validate the contract as well as to reevaluate the law. It's not a final stop. It's part of a journey in which we must constantly improve the legal environment to ensure equal opportunities, equal access, human rights, and active involvement in the community. Of course, it's time to validate the contract, and though it had been before. Now that there is a chance, I have no doubt that I will meet up with the General Assembly to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u24	A respectable president. There is good reason to follow a talk. 7. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! to discuss honesty in politics. True, it was not his speech that caused me to want to talk only about it but, rather, events during the last days that have been publicly presented to the former Supreme Court. One prime minister believes that his computer was broken into, which, of course, everyone must realize is very serious. Now I cannot help it that this matter is beginning to remind me very much of the so - called leak. In other words, you should get used to taking everything very seriously. You should get used to salting everything politicians say because they cannot be trusted to say anything that can be confirmed by real evidence at any time. When things are checked, it turns out that it was the best thing to do, the most misleading thing they said was to fall. That's what we're getting used to. It's just for the public to get used to. It's just supposed to be part of the politics. That's how politicians act. It is a disgrace to the way politicians allow themselves to manipulate the truth just to strike others or to raise themselves up. It is a disgrace to us that people, as human beings, not just as politicians, not just for this industry or what we should call them. People should not act like this whether they are in politics or not. I think it's time we started discussing it as a conscientious question, not just a political question. Being honest may take a small amount of work, for at times you may have to work on researching and thinking things through. When people allow themselves to let them go, just to get a better place on their opponent, they are not okay. That's a dishonest, respectable president. It is this tradition, this behavior, that weakens the respect of the high Generals, governments, and politicians in general. I think it's time we all think about it. All as one.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss the only report that's the McKinsey report on the Land Hospital. I think it's a very interesting report, and we've had a presentation on it on a budget board. Then there was a press conference at the Ministry of Health. I thought this report would give much more publicity in the media and would discuss it. I find it practical, at least. it's worth a closer look. It discusses some of the changes in our system, and then the question is, What do we get for the money? I have felt that the requirement to place more and more money in the health system is louder than the question of what we get for the money. Here, for example. is being criticized for lack of efficiency. How do we know what we'll get for the money if we don't measure the results? It came as a surprise to me to see a report called a report of the greater part of the legal committee, getting considerable publicity in the media. My report would have been that this report should have given that space. I expect the report to be included in the campaign too. I'm at least curious to hear how the classes feel about the report, and whether those who reach here will hold a course suggested by Mckinsey. I urge people to check the report, it's not hard or long reading. I also encourage VOLV to attend a few medical bulletins and to do more publicity in most cases. I'd like to get my kickbacks on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u26	Mr. President. I had requested to attend a seminarary because of a different language or another speech I was going to give, but she can wait, she is timelessly brilliant. But, hey. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir directed a question to me that I am relieved to answer on the report that has been under consideration only for this program. As to this, I would like to say that at a meeting of a budget committee on April 27, if I recall correctly, a question list was on the program showing to members of the committee and all members of the committee presented him and were invited to add, so the case began officially on the committee and has therefore been on her schedule before. Ask me what. Hence, a senator on the leading of the report must be considered in this context. Second, I'd like to say that on my own, I have no disagreement with the conclusion of the review. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. But I'd also like to point out that his report, with permission from the President, says: Therefore, in view of the uncertainty of the value of property, why was there no agreement on the exchange of valuables, as was done in the Lands Bank agreements. Thus, he also has specific warning messages and questions that may be trying to discuss in the current report, which is also based on new information. I would also like to point out that this report draws together the documents and documents cited so that people can look them up. The report is for a discussion on a budget board tomorrow. That's where we're sitting. A senator both. Then we will continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u27	Mr. President. September 2nd. published in the newspaper by Children's Erna - Reynisdóttir Save the Children, Iceland. In the article that included the headline's 'authority', it says, on permission of the president's permission: At the beginning of a school year, parents'shopping for study aids can be a real problem for children's families. In spite of the legalization of the United Nations children in the United Nations covenant, the provision of children's right to primary education is laid down in this land. Thus, the parental interest is, in fact, illegal under the [act of the covenant] The requirement for parents to pay for school data may also contribute to discrimination that violates the arrangement of the children's covenant. Let us not forget that the school is the cornerstone of social equality, and children should be able to participate without feeling their parents'economic situation. The sad fact is that in this country, hundreds of children need assistance from social services and relief organizations in order to buy literature. The childhood of Save the Children in Iceland has set in motion a collection of signatures on the organization's web to call for public support to pressure the authorities to make the elementary school of deposit and to respect the rights that all children have in accordance with the United Nations Children's Convention. There is a real need for a challenge in the organization. August 16th. I put in a bill along with others who handle this matter, and I want to challenge the Council's administration to give the matter a course at this council and answer with the pleas we have received from the community. It is important that we make sure that children living in poor economic conditions receive all the educational tools they need. Otherwise, there is a real danger that they will not get the same opportunities for study as other children, and their attitude toward the school will be negative. Mr. President. I am convinced that the Icelandic people agree to try to prevent it and want it to be guaranteed by law. [[The president calls.]] Let's get this show on the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u28	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss a case that has been in my mind for a while, and I'm going to have something to do with a Senate proposal that I made and was approved in 2014 by the General Assembly. The minister of foreign affairs to use internationally for the self - determination of the inhabitants of the WestSahara's own rights in line with the United Nations decision. Yesterday, the European Court's office introduced its members into a very important matter in the European Court and on whether the European Commission and Maroccoso business agreements can reach occupied areas in western Zoara, e.g. For fish and fish caught in the jurisdiction of the occupied country. In short, the lawyer's conclusion was that he did not. This case is not binding to the court, but it is thought to have a major impact on the outcome. It is a huge interest for the occupied nation that the Western Sahara will be declared to be no part of Morocco according to the agreement. The majority of the ideas are quoted. Secretary of State Alfreðsdóttir Dögg Alfreddsdóttir, of the Generals' sales of April 18th, where she responded to my inquiry about the interpretation of the EFTA holiday contract at Morocco also reached western Zoara. The highest answer. A minister was a simple, explicit no. What a joy it is to see in a direct way an example of Congress, inquiry, and conversation at the Council that has a direct, positive effect on the course of foreign affairs! This case also serves as a reminder that even in faraway lands, we Icelanders can positively contribute to the scales of freedom and democracy. [[The president calls.]] I hope we can see more of these matters that we can continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u29	President. It is proper to pause that today we would have walked here under normal circumstances until a new assembly. Today there is another Tuesday in September, and today a Council of 146 would have changed. Today we face the political fact that we are experiencing a very unusual time. We are facing the fact that a distant government saw itself forced to make elections before its commission was actually expired. We're seeing now, a respectable president, when we're in September, very serious members of both administrations. The situation has become the subject of urgent questions as to whether it is advisable for the General to complete matters under these circumstances. President. Governments revolve around trust and politics, looking back and looking ahead. We are to remember when we enter the election in the fall of what happened, that international coverage of tax cover and demurreries, the Panama documents that were unveiled, revealed that the president of the Icelandic states was personally wrapped in the issues that were exposed there. How credible is it, a respected president, that they organize the important issues facing in Icelandic society, the fact that the community is in an upset, health system, the road system, and the education system are all in the position that needs to be handled well. That will be the project of the next government, and that government will become a social administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u30	V.E.G. President. It's good to be reminded that today a new assembly should have come together. In other words, it would have been better at the score meeting on the busy Wednesday if it was announced. paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son at the General Assembly for a new government would have been satisfied, but the officials of the government would not have followed that. That would have been much less fucked up from then on. That's what I'm saying because there was an election demand. We should have already chosen, e.g. October 29th is, in fact, the wrongest time for elections to be decided in terms of funding. That's just what I wanted to say for the occasion. The other item I would like to discuss is sale in the country of Reykjavík. Bjarni Benediktsson's financial minister recently appeared. I don't think he's authorized to sell this country. The warrant was found in 2013, page 6. magazine on selling land outside the airport fence. It's in the fence. Besides, it's a gift, not a sale in this country. I strongly criticize the agreement between Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, former Minister of the Interior, regarding the closure of the emergency track, which leads to this sale here at the end. They are debtors of independence. The other thing I'd like to discuss... about my inquiry last night to the highest level. Industrial Minister on Backpacking. I'm gonna go with it a little bit. There's no question about the weather. It's a construction period, not 12 months, but maybe six months. That's why we're waiting for the government's initiative. What will the government do in this serious matter? I say for my part, we generals must try to work together to find a solution that everyone can enjoy in order to carry on the work that is there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u31	A respectable president. The report has been discussed in this issue of yesterday's introductions to the privatization of the second. It is interesting that the main subject is to discuss, but we are not yet discussing it. I hope we can get to that point. You're right next door. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir says that it refers to reports and assessments and answers. This is so that people can drift through it. I would expect those who talk about the importance of having everything on board and transparency and other factors should rejoice that this information is presented in this way. But it isn't. The conclusion is simply that on the sole basis of personal development, the responsibility was, unfortunately, primarily among taxpayers, but the benefits were all to the owners or to the crew. Happily, this case has been successful because the current government has kept things under control and has kept the taxpayers' interest in it. That's what we see in the bank tax and in the stability process. But we cannot avoid considering these matters in the context of other comparable issues during the last term, and then I am, for example, the same one. To speak to Ictesave, and the speech of the Savibek of Cheflavík, and Tama. We cannot help but conclude that we have not been well maintained by political parties then in charge of the government and certainly will if we consider the matters we have not done fully, such as the one we have not done. The Icesave case, that too much respect has been given to the demands. I hope that we will prosper in discussing these matters objectively and out of moderation, for it is vital that we learn from our mistakes, see what has been done well, and what has gone wrong. [[The president calls.]] It's bad to repeat a mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u32	A respectable president. One of the most social injustices in Iceland is the pay difference between sexes. The fact that women have less pay than men for the same jobs, the fact that women have fewer governments, fewer management positions, is the largest social injustice in our society, and it is vital to correct it. Happily, we have been on that path slowly, not quickly enough. I'll mention it here because this speech is never often delivered. And that is especially reason to do so after the onset of trouble. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has reason to come up here and change this program called the Synod's basic activities into the activities of the Synod in order to benefit from what happened in his district and the Southwestern district of the Independence Party for the past weekend. While it is, of course, the right of each party to determine how he appoints his superior list, all that can be said is that it is a complete return. It was totally unmistakably for any who favor the social injustice of the sex to prefer this class in these elections, completely out of the way. I think there would be much more reason for the voters in Iceland to band together to go further than has been done in the council, with 46% of members of the council being women, and ensuring the next election that a majority of the members of this hall will be women.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u33	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u34	Thus we take steps toward the future, to improve the status of the sexes, and to eliminate the social injustices that go on. paritaprevir It just seems that Ásmundur Friðriksson wasn't aware. It seems to belong to some very second century in that context. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u35	V.E.G. President. Yeah, here's the livestock, the bill that's behind the livestock, for the final payment at the General Parliament after three discussions and a lot of work on a professional committee that I'd like to say was particularly good and was handled well. I now make two adjustments at 3rd. and expect the Generals to have a good study of them and to consider whether they are part of a lack of cooperation with agriculture in Iceland. I think so. That is why the suggestions are offered. However, for tollovata's special-marked cheeses there is also a modification form of the new import and, of course, to stop the overlaying of unsolved cheeses in Iceland. This is what we consider a great improvement and will vote with that proposal. I call attention to the members of the greater section at the moment, by permission of the president: [[The president calls.]] ▪ The more important part has agreed on to speed up the induction of increased food for the import of a specialosome. I believe it. I trust to the highest. Agricultural minister will complete it before leaving that chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u36	Mr. President. We're here for the 3rd district vote. On livestock contracts. I would like to state and refer to a report recently published on the website, which is made up of the analysis department of Aion banks, which clearly states the extent of growth in recent years in Icelandic agriculture, each increase in value, and how agriculture has advanced in terms. It's on the basis that we accept these livestock contracts today. We want to advance further in these areas, for agriculture needs to do so. The system isn't perfect. Systems are in the countries we would like to compare ourselves with farmers' concerns about food production. We can talk about them all the time, discuss them forever, and disagree about them, but today we are going to keep walking. We have prepared a powerful course for making more peace with Iceland's agriculture. Therefore, I encourage a good sense of solidarity regarding the payment we are taking on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u37	A respectable president. In the short future, a paradox presented the whole issue and explained 13 points to why the matter was unacceptable. Of course, this is primarily because little or no consultation was made with key users on the big case, farm contracts. There was no consultation with consumers, any consultation with some farmers in the lead but no consultation with the store, etc. These contracts are treaties of the same state. These are contracts for old Iceland. These are contracts that raise tolls on cheese. These are contracts where prices will still be dealt with in the milk industry. These are contracts in which the old groups cling to their methods of management. It's unpleasant, and we can't support these contracts, but we'll vote with the substantial changes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u38	Mr. President. We'll vote for the livestock deal. We left greens are very important to create agriculture in the country as well as to ensure long-term security, that there is uncertainty in the sector as well as anyone else. We don't think that there was much good work to be done on this existing livestock contract and that few people have found that work in the first place. A professional health - care committee has tried to improve them, and we left greens have joined them and have tried to fix this agreement as we have been able to do on the committee. But that's not enough. I think it's a clear review law in three years where the votes of the contract can be re-elected and the time is used to review the limitations of the agreements against many branches, like sheep farms and others in which dissatisfaction has developed. We left greens make adjustments to the animal success proposal in this case, which goes beyond the suggestion of the greater portion, and we hope that it will be supported. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u39	A respectable president. At the beginning of this case, I expressed my doubts about a domestic agreement as he had been prepared. [[Up front.]] I'm sorry, I'm... I'm going to get to finish my case here, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] My doubts are primarily to the point that I doubt that this contract will bring benefits to the people and farmers, even less to farmers. What makes me trust to vote with this for a time is that this is going to take care of a three-year period. It will consider, in particular, the evaluation of the entire agricultural economy. But I'd like to add one tool that would go on and on and on and on and on and on and on on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. But I'll have that expected review after winning that case. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I will finish my speech with these words. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to say the next thing I want to do is to make some changes. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son on car cemeteries. There are some improvements that have been made with regard to this livestock contract. Business committee. But it's true that it's a very controversial deal. There are better things to do. I think we need to start developing better practice when we're working long-term, as the livestock treats do. We piratars remember that in view of the lack of enough consultation with all potential parties involved in the Homological Communication Convention, except in those situations where it is obvious that the improvement is better, especially in the case of high costs. And then I'd like to see this change in car-creature motion from the bottom of my head. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. I think it would be a great profit for the country. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u41	V.E.G. President. This is my suggestion that the milk industry falls under competitive laws, such as other sectors in the country and several other habitats, such as sheep'farms and the little dairy stations, Molka, Arna, and Cundusion. This, however, is to be met with the viewpoints of a previous discussion, particularly for some independents, that this will not take effect immediately. It is therefore set here as a provisional rule that the exception should be removed from January 1, 2020. This, in effect, has been because the main argument of independence so far has been that it cannot be done as soon as the law is accepted. But here's a sunset plan. Please, independents, show what you want in a business venture and what basis you want to put on industry in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u42	A respectable president. It is of great interest to see these votes and hear repeated declarations of independence that opposition to the release of the milk industry from competitive law is due to practitiony. There is no basis for those statements. Now that a three - year - long lead adjustment period is acceptable for the article in order to take reasonable action, it is still intended to vote against it. Sad to say, the left movement ◯ green supply should not be trusted to support this moderate proposal. We must expect this industry to require restrictions on the use of low competitiveness. This has been done repeatedly so far. Now we see that it is the direct policy of the administrative body not to pay for it. That's a worry. How sad it is to see that the liberal nerve is not in a deeper position in this room!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u43	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u44	V.E.G. President. This is where we vote on a proposal for a so-called high-to-prote in the customs gang in a so-called SDR movie. It is also offered the administrative part, initially to raise this threshold price by 150%, but it provides an increase of 75%. This is an update for how to do it based on March 1 and every year, moving it according to a gangtel number. This set of 75% increase takes into account much of the benefits the consumers should receive by dropping the tolls of specially marked cheese, as indicated below, and we will support. It is true that the government has this in mind. And the next time consumers buy these special cheeses, the reduction is not as great as it should have been when the government lets the customs go, because of increases in the reference price. Here you go, good Icelanders. This is at the command of independents and progressives.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u45	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u46	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u47	A respectable president. This is where we propose a left green motion that says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's a demolition. 1.mg. it is mandatory to cancel all public support payments according to the regulations of the livestock, No. 99/1993, and device law, No. 70/1998,◯ We walk all the way down there, believing that no official support payment in any form will go to those who break animal traffic laws and have been repeatedly warned of serious offenses. This applies not only to the animal life that falls under direct payment but also to the animals on which it resides and has been violated under animal control. We're supposed to go all the way over the place when we're dealing with unsuspecting creatures. The majority of the following motions are made which do not go as far as our motion, i.e. that all animals should have these things, whether they fall under direct payment or not. I encourage the Senate to stand up with defenseless animals in this country and accept this proposal. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u48	President. If I'm going to mention one thing I've noticed, which is going on in Icelandic government, it's inexplicable and not be a proper penalty for when someone becomes guilty, especially when it's under state. Of course, farm contracts are one of the greatest government exchanges in our society. But I find it sad to see that this proposal should not be accepted because it is our responsibility if animalism is allowed to abide by government grants.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you initially for the discussion that has been raised on the subject of animal cruelty. I believe that the greater part is responding accurately to the comments made. The proposal that was submitted to this day, in my opinion, goes too far because of a few things. First, if you pay a farm, you can have a basis to improve and adapt to avoid further accidents, animal abuse, or something like that. Second, we cannot overlook the fact that there are many reasons why such evil things, which we may call zoos, neglectful care, or something like that, happen on earth. It can simply be an illness. It can be the illness of an resident, there are so many things that can cause it. We must want to give these people who at least deserve a chance to get their feet back and move on. It's too hard to take all the payments off. But taking money from these animals, e.g. You are right in the matter of being treated badly. No one should be allowed to treat animals badly. But if we're going to take, for example. Refining payments, payments that happen to other cattle, the rest of the livestock, it's gone too far. They say we're just gonna turn these people away from all of them, instead of scram, rebuke them, possession-tempered species or animals that are badly treated but then allow them to think... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u50	V.E.G. President. Here comes a suggestion from the majority of the items that do not go as far as the motion. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir moved here today, which was very similar to the proposal I made at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um... just a change in animal welfare law. There's the walk shorter. It would have been better to agree with the other proposal, in my opinion, and she was close to getting approved here at the Council. I drew attention to the fact that this motion was made with one vote. Twenty votes against 19. Four members of the Independence Party sat by. [[The point is, don't vote.]] You're sitting next to me. You don't want to vote. That's the situation right now. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to the vote on this large and large contract as well as for the 2,924 members of the administrations who agree to do this. There is no greater part of the Generals behind this. [[The president calls.]] It is proper to draw attention to it. This may be because several members of the management team have a bad taste in their mouths, and I understand it very well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u51	Mr. President. We vote to cancel support for animal owners who become the source of serious offenses. We preached between discussions that we would make this adjustment to the 3rd districts. Because it is a challenge to set the law in a way that works and to put this burdensome provision in place. Whether it goes further or shorter, this is a clear source for the Food Agency, in the context of other measures established by the Agency, to use this means to further the betterment. I encourage Congress to accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u52	V.E.G. President. You feel like you're coming up here to do something wrong. But I'd like to remind you that in the country today there are laws for the well - being of animals, which include: to indicate that there is a serious violation against the law or regulations that are supported by it, police can immediately deduct an animal from the possession or authority of the owner at the discretion of the Food Organization. I always think that there's a number one, two, and three in cases where the well - being of animals is at stake, removing animals from their partners. So is the proposal presented here, as shown in the appeal given. paritaprevir Haraldur's son Benediktsson, of course, in accordance with existing laws and is a clear source that can be strengthened by a food management agency. But we also need to understand what we are doing in expensive traffic laws that we are not making up today or in this discussion, which has been available for many years. It may be less of a fraction that can be solved just by pointing them out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u53	Mr. President. Caring for animals is not burdensome. It is not burdensome, it is self - righteous. We can go all the way, the council, all the way. We know that it is a long time before a person is overreached by outright payment or by someone else's strength, the decision of fines, and the like. A food management agency should have a clear message from the Council on the need for animal care, and this should follow first the procedures on animal travel and the Food Organization work on it, but why would anyone ever continue to receive support from the State in case of violations against the animal travel of part of the farm? What sense does that make? It's something that makes farmers look bad. Farmers do not want the animal's well - being laws to be broken. We at the Council must show this class the honor of doing this work. [[The president calls.]] It's sad that it meant this little, one vote. [[The president calls.]] Today, those sitting by should think about their own pace. Of course, we stand left green with this suggestion that goes shorter than ours, but we feel that we've influenced it so far as to vote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u54	A respectable president. Throughout all this work, it has been one of the points that we in our smaller section have talked most about. This was one of the 13 points that we in the short future had in our contraband. That is exactly how a professional driving committee took out this treatment in 2012 from the animal law in order to place it in stock agreements. This isn't far enough. I don't understand why. I don't have the imagination of picking up why people want to be on some kind of defense that they can't be punished or taken away from the strength that doesn't treat animals well. I just can't put my arm around it. I don't understand how the Allied Council can't be clear about this. We'll vote with a suggestion of the greater portion, but it's going way too far. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u55	V.E.G. President. After the 2nd district, we discussed this matter and payment and a vote on it. appeared as a picture of several members of this hall, and they were shouted as animal lovers for not supporting a proposal that was then made. Now I think it's right to say who's supporting a proposal that's preventing an animal farm on the country's farms. - I notice people like this, and that's good. I hope there's evidence they're pleased with this and will vote with this. But I naturally expect that in the media talk in Iceland, there will be a picture of me now in the same media, explaining that I'm not an animal addict and that my partners don't. I say yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u56	A respectable president. In the discussion of this and this aspect of the matter, I think it is a real challenge to approach the management of the agricultural position in Icelandic society. How important it is that we have confidence and confidence in these important professions! It is not a matter of doing anyone a favor by reducing the possibility of the government in order to be disciplined against those who abuse animals. This is an attempt to find ways to repair the misuse of animals as little as possible. I'll say, half-heartedly, for I find that, frankly, it's not too far gone and much normal to have broad sources to accept official support from those who fail with animals. [[The president calls.]] Depending on the circumstances, such sources need to be reasoned. But they are supposed to be in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u57	A respectable president. I say yes, as I explained earlier. It might have been better for what? paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson is just calling DV if he needed this media circus. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I don't like the idea that the Allied Council of Iceland is taking part in this kind of charade. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u58	Hv. A senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u59	I already said yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u60	The president was waiting for respect, and the president had missed the President so he wanted to be sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u61	A respectable president. Thank you for the good word. paritaprevir My beloved Össur Skarphéðinsson, who always shows me such affection. All I want to do is to correct here only, of course, is the wrong thing that happened with him. paritaprevir Páll, the aged Árnason of Athenians, was about to lose out on the prospects of the public. It is just about to increase the possibility of the public with this suggestion to address those who may not be well treated with animals and animals, engage in animal abuse, as we have been talking about here. It is quite reasonable, however, that we are in a hot mood after the discussion that was the last time we discussed these matters, where humans were precisely shouted for not wanting to accept the proposal that was then proposed. The suggestion moved the matter. I am grateful for that. It says that we have a good suggestion that will strengthen the Food Organization and add the variety of resources that it has today to deal with these things. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u62	A respectable president. I call attention to the fact that we're trying to fix things. We're setting up regulations at 37th. the animal's well-being. We're trying to make sure that it puts it in place so it'll be effective. I refuse to accept the claims here that we are giving some discount. A food - based agency has far - reaching resources, very strong resources. She can confiscate all the income of an animal owner by her actions from whether we look to one or more habitats. Sadly, the reality is that since these problems arise, not just one kind of animal is subject to them. It's all over. I'm sorry. But this is where we want to do things clearly. Thank you for the support your proposal will offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u63	V.E.G. President. It's natural to have to come up in the Generals' pontu and refuse to accept the adage to be an animal consumer. Here are two suggestions. Another says that the Food Organization is obliged to eliminate all public support. The other says that the Food Institute is permitted to eliminate official support. I am an aviation specialist from the College of Farms of Avengers, but I am no expert at the Food Institute, and I have that mine doesn't even have the education to work there, even if it was advertised, so I'm going to let them decide when the warrant is used to cancel the support. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u64	V.E.G. President. I say yes to this suggestion because it is less ashamed than nothing. But I remind you that in connection with a bill of change in animal welfare laws, the employment committee requested to the Ministry that this would make a clear provision for animal living agreements. It wasn't done. That's why the committee takes it up here. A suggestion I made at 2nd. the change in animal law was meant to be there. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir made a suggestion here that it was related. There's a big difference between duty and permission. But here's a little shorter. It's better, as I say. I'd just like to remind you that we've seen TV reports of poor animals in this country in a fixed SUV. It was with the support of the State. No one has to tell me that if payment was dropped, it would add to the problem. [[The president calls.]] No. However, there would be additional sources to stop him because this case had to go round in the judiciary system to stop the animal use there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u65	Mr. President. Here, members of Congress come up and talk as if it were only by default that this proposal would be subsidized now. It's a long way from here. I was on a job committee, and it wasn't to open up the livestock law to suggest this until a change of motion from me and others came through the same material. That's the way it was. It may also have had an impact, the coverage like in DV in this case, so that people would stumble to stand by it as is being done now. This isn't far enough. But of course, we will have a left green vote with this proposal. However, we do not fully understand the injuriousness of members of the council not being able to go all the way. Yes, and allowed, there's a big difference. Of course, this is a warning and a long process of action. We're also talking about all the livestock, not just animals that fall under official support, so we're going to get through this. There is no need to hold back from reaching out for this group. [[The president calls.]] It should have been a roll call in previous votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u66	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u68	A respectable president. Here's a little bit shorter than the proposal you made earlier. It's even here. It is authorized to continue supporting some animals, although an animal's presence with other animals can be demonstrated in the same environment. I think it's incomprehensible. Animal exposure is something that should not be tolerated. Of course, we should have strong sources and organizations to have a responsibility to use strong sources to prevent animal abuse. Animal life is not something that just happens, and then it is followed by such an unexpected reaction, as with any other disease. Animal life can be prevented by the awareness that animals are able to do so effectively. It is with a certain grief in my heart that I say yes to this suggestion. It's much better from now on, but much better, and better off before the council, we would have accepted the proposal that was dropped here earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u69	V.E.G. President. Here's a suggestion to try to make more peace with other people about making stock agreements. The Minister of Agriculture for the General Assembly of Parliament clauses on the contract goals of the state, which are discussed with the previous issue., the case will be passed on to a committee of discussions, as follows. to accept, or accept, as it will go and then the General will bring in a domestic agreement before ministers and the Bavour Group sit down. This is definitely an improvement in my opinion. I can't believe what I see here that the greater part, independents and candidates, would vote against this proposal made in the way that I was saying. It is my solid faith that the approval of this proposal would make it easier for the Generals to work on farm contracts, whether in two or three years or ten years, as some candidates claim, but independents would try to convince us that this is a three - year contract. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I challenge the executives to reconsider their position. It's not good for independents to be so red.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u70	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here to thank the Generals, of course, both the more and less part of the employment committee, for their work. I also want to thank the council for the way this situation has worked out. I'd also like to mention the Bavour Society, the government members in this case, and the local Ministry, who came to visit, I thank them for their work. Now it's time to work out the contract they're accepting here. There are some points directly to be made to a minister. Of course, we will try to push as much of it, preferably all, into action, before the end of October will be chosen so that things will all get started before elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u71	V.E.G. President. At the final payment of this case, we will be sitting by the officers of this company, sitting by the bill in its entirety. We've made some adjustment proposals that we thought were an improvement for the case that has been dropped. There has been a change in the treatment of the committee, but much too little. We still face the fact that the Council is confronted with something and cannot act as if I would like to do now, as with the latest information about sheep farming, i.e. about crash in foreign markets and poor status due to gang strength. I would have liked to meet the sheep farmers in this contract with regard to this. But I can only say at the end that I wish the farmers good luck and thank them for their excellent production of good and wholesome products, wonderful agricultural products. I fear, however, that this agreement is not good for farmers. [[The president calls.]] At the end, I draw attention to the fact that of the large majority of the work at the General Assembly, only 19 members are accepting a domestic contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u72	A respectable president. In the end, we love Icelandic agriculture very much. It is vital that we make peace with him. This is a market agreement made without consultation with very important parties, environmental partners, consumers, etc. There is no respect for competitiveness here, and there is nothing in this work that is likely to lead to an increased agreement on Icelandic agriculture. That's too bad. This is an agreement that is crucial, which is not necessarily for the benefit. It is said: "Let's do it, but just for the age of three, so it can be done again, and maybe by better consultation. " We'll take the discussion afterwards, but we'll agree first. I've said that before, three bad years are better than ten years. But three bad years are bad years, and there is no way to back this deal. We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u73	Mr. President. At the end of this large matter, I think of my gratitude to members of the committee at the time. A pro board for good cooperation and a good discussion at the council. We took this matter into good cooperation with the Committee, worked on its progress, made up of the very many and detailed changes that I think will in the long run be a success of the case. I'm pretty sure that if we weren't so close to elections and had had a little more time, we'd have made a lot more of peace on this big case, but maybe this is the case at the end of payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u74	Mr. President. We left greens do not vote for the final payment on the livestock contract. We will sit by and believe the government is responsible for the deal. If we had had had anything to say, his preparation would have been very different, it would have been tried to achieve much greater peace and to cooperate with the branches involved in achieving the best results for Icelandic agriculture. We want to left green to have Icelandic agriculture growing and prospering here in the country, thinking that it will benefit the consumers of the country to have production as near as possible to consumers. It is also environmentally demanding, and we have presented a change in the agreements now that environmental impacts are being measured and examined, along with many more in the three years of revision. We feel that we were working well on a professional committee to try to improve this. But that was as far as it went. We've supported proposals there for improvement, but we regret that the General will not be able to vote with the proposal we proposed on an animal voyage. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're going to sit down on the overall payment of the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u75	A respectable president. It's been three years since the Battle of the Future in this hall with inquiries and encouragement, first three years ago, to the then marine, agricultural, and agricultural ministers on how we should meet the farm contracts that were then part of the farm. We said, three years ago, that we should do this properly, we should agree. While it was not listened, it was as if the majority of the sector was exposed to the job committee, and they tried as they could in their last record to improve, saying: " We'll take a look at this after three years, and then we'll start doing this. They put it in the beautiful words of a committee study. There's no guitar for it to be done. We're here to vote for a ten-year contract on the same condition and it's intolerable. It hurts for farmers. This isn't a good contract for farmers, and I'm sorry that an independent party and a forward party didn't trust Iceland's agriculture in competition. [[The president calls.]] Farming in Iceland can truly compete with foreign goods.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u76	V.E.G. President. Of course, there are still many aspects of this contract that will improve, including some of them. The projects directed to the Agency. I come most of the time up here to encourage this work to be started at the first, so the proposals of a urbanised organisation and the farmers who live there and live in agriculture today are not left in doubt as to the rest of their farming.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u77	A respectable president. This vote supports farm contracts made up of ten years old. In these treaties, there is no attempt to unwind the existing agricultural system. No attempt. This is expected for $14 billion each year, by the direct support they receive, and by means of customs, they do not contribute to the strength set out. In this view and in view of the fact that there is enough time to reevaluate this system and from the sound foundation I have been in for this review, I can only vote against these changes in the whole law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u78	Mr. President. This is a vote for an important toll agreement. He started in my time at the State Department. He's a controversial man. Sadly, since 2013 nearly no consultation has been made with farmers. I think, however, that this contract has a great interest in both consumers who will be able to afford a lower price as well as if they have a right to create a lot of farm equipment, especially in a position that is now being introduced into the market for sheep products. With this contract, I also believe that there is progress for farmers to make more of it available in Europe than before, and in various other ways. So I believe there is, in fact, a winning place for both consumers and agriculture. Although I am sorry that the current government has canceled the agreement that had to do with agriculture in the middle of 2013. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u79	A respectable president. Now that we're at the end of this discussion, I'd like to take this opportunity to thank you. The Foreign Affairs Committee for a good job on this important and big deal. The discussion was a long one, but we managed to return it to a house, so everyone agreed to suggest that this agreement be confirmed that the exception of the branch office of the left green people who returned a special party. I think it's a good deal, it's an opportunity for agriculture and consumers. I say, as some have said in the preceding discussion, I think Icelandic agriculture is long ready to participate in the competition. It is us who are sitting in this room to trust him and us to do so ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u80	V.E.G. President. The smaller part of the employment board suggests that this case will be referred to the government, which will provide a complete diagnostic work on the impact of the contract, but such analysis work is not available, and after it is taken into account whether the contract should be rejected or accepted, with respect to the total interest of the Icelandic community. So we left green, we'll vote on the lawsuit proposal. In effect, if it doesn't support it, it says itself that we will vote against the concierge's approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u81	A respectable president. In the future, we are confident that international agriculture can compete with imported foods as well as with foreign foods in foreign markets. So it is important to open up more imports and exports of Icelandic agriculture just to give Icelandic agriculture opportunities. We're supposed to trust Icelandic agriculture to do that. There's a step here, but I'm calling it a tiny step because more than one part of the foreign food being allowed has already been imported because of the lack of them on the Icelandic market. We're taking a little step here. The domestic agreements approved just earlier included increased spells on imported cheeses, reducing the positive effects of the Icelandic consumer market following that contract. [[The president calls.]] Although this contract is a small step, it is a good step in the right direction, and we support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u82	A respectable president. The good thing about this deal is that it creates an application tool for Icelandic agriculture, a potential to increase production and sell in a foreign market. It is very important to approach land as a serious branch that can move forward. That's the good part. The problem with the introduction here, however, is that consumers may not fully receive the benefits expected by treaties. Iceland has signed contract commitments to the aim of international agreements on transport freedom by agricultural products is to increase the quality and price of competition. However, the methodology held by the board of directors holds in place the import of import parvota, which is offering them, will prevent both quality maintenance and maintenance because the imported product is too expensive and too poor a product is introduced. It's very important to change this system. Nevertheless, I support this agreement, and it certainly is a great step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u83	A respectable president. The European Union is atoll alliance and is hard to deal with in business agreements. It's a good thing we made a deal with that. It's quite an increase. Overall, I think it goes from 700 tons to 3,800 tons. This is true, it is important how this is being carried out, and the way the auction has not been successful. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are great opportunities in a vacation store in the near future. Britain's exit from the Customs Community will call for an increased vacation market around the world that we can easily participate in, and I won't talk about if the British become members of EFTA. Also, we see that TTIP is still discussed with others. This is something we need to prepare for. We have a healthy and good Icelandic agriculture that can certainly withstand any other system of agriculture when it comes to quality, and that is how we should approach it. I vote with this vacation contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u84	Mr. President. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir wants us to leave green for this agreement to return to the government and his influence on agriculture in the country will be identified as well as on many other factors. This is very important, since there is a tremendous rise in white meat and other agricultural products that we can certainly produce within the country. This includes environmental, consumers' grounds, employment markets, and so on, since all of this has an impact on how and what we can produce here and what we are going to move into the country by agricultural products that do not meet the same quality that we do in Iceland. We don't know where the chicken Shows brought in come from, what conditions they've been manufactured, and whether animal traffic has been held in esteem there. [[The president calls.]] I believe that if our left green proposal cannot be agreed to, we will vote against this contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u85	A respectable president. We'll vote with the proposal and the contraband. Tolls are, in my opinion, the burden of proof is on those who want to sustain them. I consider customs a very bad type of tax, so to speak, and is generally against them, and they don't feel justified unless there's a very clear reason for them and have already been proved to be justified. While there are always things that you can ask yourself or others that can happen when you drop customs, I believe that you should lower tolls when there is no barrier. I don't see any objection to this case, and for that reason I vote with it and hope that eventually we get rid of all customs all over the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u86	A respectable president. I like this deal, and I just want to make it clear that in the bright future, we want to have it so that we trust people to choose for themselves what they want to buy, whether they're foreign products or Icelandic. We do not want custody, that the lawgiver always knows what to buy, what to buy, and what not to do. Although consumers are well - equipped to make a choice for themselves, we need to make sure that they can read about the products they are buying. That is what the lawgiver should focus on, but don't interfere with whether he or she buys foreign or Icelandic. It's not our job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u87	A respectable president. I am only there to draw attention to what happened to a foreign committee when the committee discussed these issues and this customs agreement that we cannot change. We can only agree with him or deny him at the council. I was surprised at how many came before the committee to warn of this agreement. We all have the best interests of consumers, we want to make sure that the European consumers can have access to wholesome, healthy food, food security, human health, and so are the basics.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u88	We'd like to be downtight.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u89	We'd like to be down, as Össur says. The question is, Is tolling the right way to do so? Here, one of the senators has come up and said: "We have full faith in Icelandic agriculture, in its quality, and in its competition with completely subsidized agriculture, in which all animal travel, drug use, biological protection and employment markets are broken. Are we going to hide our Icelandic agriculture to compete with this in Iceland? [[The president calls.]] It's just that all nations are protecting their agriculture from this and are trying to secure themselves. I think we're playing games. We are to import food on our own terms from countries that meet the same requirements as we do to our own farms and not to this agreement. [[The president calls.]] I'll sit next to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u90	A respectable president. We have in front of us a toll agreement with the European Union. It sounds to me that during the discussion there's little in this for us Icelanders, i.e. Although the European Union is leaving behind, barriers remain for the import to Iceland. You can take comfort in the fact that the European Union has never made such a two - sided agreement with Icelanders who did not open up for further import into Iceland, it is absolutely certain, so we can stop this discussion. We do, however, have an example of a contract that is at the beginning of other measures that we have used in customs during this terms of interest, where we added one - sided to customs to approximately one - sided Fifty-six billion a year. These two worlds involved in customs, on the one - side decision to drop customs in behalf of consumers in the world, and on the other hand, to use two - side agreements to enter another market. This is an example of such a deal that I support my mind. But let us bear in mind the discussion that we should take more from the European Union in competition with Icelandic agricultural products that the European Union is building a farm grant in 2014-2020 little $12,000 billion. [[The president calls.]] It puts $12,000 billion in farms to produce the product that is said by men to be able to compete without sponsors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u91	Don't you think the move team in the EU?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u92	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the strategy and protection and energy use of land. According to Article 3. track No. 48/2011, for a protection and energy efficiency programme, or a daily framework plan, should be submitted at least every four years to a General proposal for interpretation of a national protection and energy efficiency programme. The programme shall, in accordance with the objectives of the above-mentioned legislation, evaluate the protection and energy efficiency of land areas and economic, environmental and social impacts of innovations, including protection. The motion I recommend here is the final point at work on the 3rd point of a frame plan that has taken place since 2013. It is important to remind you that this is the first time that work on the Framework Programme is carried out in accordance with national protection and energy efficiency laws, which took full value 2013. Thus, the first time in our lives under the Law is a great learning process and a valuable lesson to learn from it. Now, we can look back to see if there are any bumps in the legal environment on which the General board set out to determine if there are any improvements needed to trust that law on which all of these work is based. A Framework Programme covers land areas and activation options for which the project management of the programme has discussed and has installed electricity of 10 MW or more, or installed heat forces 50 MW or more. I will now follow a few dates on the job process. On January 14, 2013, the current budget was adopted at the General Assembly, and the law of No. 48/2011, except for 1,◯3. par. The law of law, which had become valid on May 20, 2011. On March 25, 2013, the current Environment and Resource Minister for Project Management made up of Article 8. track No. 48/2011 and then started working on the 3rd part of the framework program set out here. It is to be noted here that on March 21, 2014, the project management of three activation initiatives returned to the secretary's office, but in the Annex to its message letter, they were directed to project management to prioritate their work so that it would be able to perform as soon as possible a professional assessment of the six activation options moved from a waiting category to the waiting period following the review of the 2rd stipulation and the two options that were not adequately assessed by project management of the 2th class. Suggestion to be agreed on by the Council's Recontraction of a Protocol on the Protection and Energy Use of Lands was adopted in the General Assembly of July 1, 2015. With the approval of the approval, the activation option Aggressive Iggregation has been induced by a waiting category of energy efficiency groups according to project management proposals. The addition is part of the proposal I recommend here today. Along with a discussion of the priming options that were in priority under the Annex to the Worker's letter, it worked on the development initiatives it was sent for consideration in the 3rd-to-day series of Enzyme Management Plans, as agreed by the Act of the Act. On March 10, 2014, the Agency's first appointment was to make a list of the initiatives of the Commission's initiatives, which was presented to the project on February 21, 2015. As for the work of the project manager, she appointed four professional groups to review the priming plans from their own perspective, evaluate them by staging them, and offering suggestions for project management. According to the Third Amendment 1 mg. Count 9. track No. 48/2011 is a number of professional groups of their compositions and their commands determined by a project management. On April 16, 2014, groups 1 and 2 were appointed to serve in May. Work force 1 was designed to assess activation and habitats with respect to nature, culture, landscapes, and so forth. Project 2 was to assess regional activation options in terms of alternatives to energy efficiency, such as tourism, outdoors, and agriculture. A group 3 was appointed on July 9, 2015, and in August 2015, they began to operate. Project 3 was to assess the activation and geographic systems in terms of their impact on society, such as impact on the social welfare of the population, social diversity, communication, solidarity, function, and other factors that the group considered desirable and possible to evaluate. A group 4 was appointed on October 12, 2015. Project 4 was to deal with activation initiatives and regions in terms of economic factors, mainly from the influence of individual activation options, or groups of national activation initiatives. As stated in the law of No. In fact, 48/2011 a project manager introduced his proposal and gave the institutions, the public, and the stakeholders a chance to give reviews about the future. That scheme lasted three weeks, from March 31 to April 20, 2016. In this review, the project administration received 18 reviews from 15 sources. As a result, a project management from its proposal for the classification of activation options went on legally 12 weeks of consultation, which lasted between May 11, 2016 and August 3, 2000. In the second consultation process, the project management received data from a total of 44 sources. Finally, on August 26, 2000, I received suggestions from a project manager. A total of 82 activation options are proposed in these categories. The proposals of the project management are unanimous, with the exception of the activation option Hallow wound activation at Atley, where two task force agents returned a special mask. I have now reviewed the proposals of a project to agree with an industrial and commercial minister, as the law expects, and now submit them here at the General Assembly. A respectable president. I present the proposals unchanged, as expressed by the Project Management Board for the Research and Subsidies of the Generals. According to a report of the work programme, the environmental assessment of a plan was conducted along with the plan. I've had a regular meeting of information with the head of a project director in which he has studied my situation on the work of the 3rd-to-step program. I'm not going to review rational support for the classification of each activation option, but I'm going to refer to a report of the Project Management Board, specifically chapter 9.3 on page 20. 165. However, I'd like to mention that the proposals suggest a total of 18 priming options will be added to a new category of 38, to a waiting party, and 26 to a protection party. As I mentioned earlier, the task management received a number of reviews in the legal process of its proposals. For example, the classification of activations has been shown to be based only on the results of two field groups, i.e. the field groups 1 and 2, but the results of the field groups 3 and 4 have had little effect on the classification of the individual activations and therefore the contribution of the social and economic effects of the inducers was less than desirable. It should be noted that in the final report of a project management programme, the results of cohorts 3 and 4 show that the methodology used in the classification of activation options, i.e. so-called multivariate categories, are not suitable for evaluating social and economic impacts in the light of available knowledge. I call attention to the fact that this was also a subject in the other stage of the frame plan. Although knowledge and assessment of these factors have been conducted, there is still much uncertainty as to how they should be used to decision-making on the scene of a frame plan. So I believe that it is important to focus on developing the methodology of a framework when considering the social impacts of their individual activation initiatives as well as their economic impacts and that this work should take priority in the next step of the framework. At the same time, I would like to reiterate the importance of a framework for government decision-making on great interests and issues that have sometimes caused conflict in our community. I believe that a framework is a fundamental tool for working under decision-making on which areas we would like to take in and which areas we would like to protect for the future. I've put the overemphasis on being a environmental and resource minister to protect this management system and to work as the law commands and to get ready into the General Assembly for final coverage and payment. Also, we must not lose sight of the fact that a structured program is designed to provide key lines to the government's plans for energy protection and efficiency. So it should provide a complete picture, but it should not go down to the point of having too detailed analysis of smaller issues. Finally, the proposal I recommend here is a powerful energy efficiency plan at the same time as it is an ambitious protection plan. The available proposal has a high potential for energy growth, or more than 1,400 MW. As a comparison, I would like to point out that the installed power of all the current fortresses in Iceland is about 2,500 MW. At the same time, many important areas will be provided for protection. Works this way on both sides, as I have sometimes mentioned, that a frame plan must be made. In addition, there is a large waiting group in which you can find priming options suggested to be considered better in the future. In fact, I think it's good that we take safe steps and run slowly for future land uses, as technology development is rapid, interest evaluation changes, and we don't know what the situation will be in five or ten years. A respectable president. I've given you the basic point of this proposal. I suggest that after her first discussion, she will be referred to the highest points. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u93	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the fact that this is the way the situation is presented and this process in a frame plan continues and is tried to proceed with this reconciliation process or process that has been proposed so that the guidelines are clear. What bothers me, however, is at the top. At the end of his talk, a minister indicates that the matter should be addressed to the professional committee. The reason why it bothers me is because when we made the changes to bring a frame plan to the Environment Ministry during the last term, it was done with the view that the matter was getting a broader look, i.e. that we were going to make our protection as close as possible to the use and use of it. Now, for the second time in this terms period, it is decided to look at the situation from the utilisation point and suggest by the minister himself that the case or discussion of this matter be done to a professional committee. When we made comments, we already made it the highest. the present prime minister and the present prime minister. The minister of the environment went on to say the same thing earlier in this ideal period, in the case of Aggressive reactivation. A minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, that the reason he proposed the case to be taken to a professional committee was because, in that case, it was merely a transfer from waiting to use, and it was not being considered a protection party, and thus he felt that the case would be a legitimate opportunity for a professional committee. Today, however, everything is subject to the same reasoning, and it is not possible to use the same reasoning. In my opinion it is absolutely impossible for the minister of the environment to take this class to suggest that the case should take place the way the former minister reasoned on the basis of innovation. Here we will discuss the matter on a broad scale. I'm waiting for the highest. A minister to reexamine his mind because this is a reversal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u94	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and he can quite understand that somehow he can distract her, so I use the same word as before. A senator mentioned. Of course, we took this into consideration, and it was discussed in the Ministry. I'm completely honest with you. But I felt that because of the coverage that has been in this ideal period of this group, there is much more knowledge already in the hands of members of a professional committee than with others. I have to say, I'm just really happy if this is the only thing that bothers you. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u95	A respectable president. It's going to the highest. Minister now to decide which members of Congress are more aware of the frame plan? Is that so? In the Environment and Transport Committee, if there is any such sentence on the council and the possible ability to discuss this matter, there are now former industrial ministers who then conducted this category and former environmental Ministers who also came to make frame plans during the last term. If the highest. A minister would like to ask a senator's CV to check their qualifications on the subject, I'm sure. It's pretty heavy and powerful on an environmental and transport committee. The point here is a reversal of the rationalization of the divorced environmental minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson's son, when he said in this ideal period that this was the only case in which there was a transfer of Indominization to the colony, out of the case of this time. - V.I.E.L.L.I.E.L.D. A minister may shake his head as she likes, but I can get this speech for a quote directly to a former minister, since he reasoned that the matter would go to a professional committee for a while because only the colony was being discussed. [[The president calls.]] But the highest. A minister does not determine where the greatest knowledge of the council lies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u96	A respectable president. It's just that a minister considers where he sends a suggestion. I am impressed, and I listened and discussed the subject. I'm not talking about an environmental and transport committee, like so many times, I've kissed her for her work. But I just say it firmly, and I mean that, in view of the discussion that took place during this terms, and if people consider the proposal that I am offering unchanged from the project management, the project management of a frame management program has really come to the conclusion that the activation options there for discussion and discussion are the same as stated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u97	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the order of the trade groups because it shows that a professional group 3 was not appointed until 9 July 2015 and began working in August 2015. A group 4 was not appointed until October 12, 2015, and in this council 4 agreement, it is granted to the President: A panel 4 concluded that there is no basis for assessing the national efficiency of the activation initiatives under consideration in the 3rd fiscal and energy efficiency programme. There was no different conclusion from that professional group. This has been made clear at one meeting of the employment authorities, where we were introduced to a prospective Senate resolution or to the conclusion of the third major phase, a respectable president, that because the Environment and Resource Ministry could not guarantee financial resources and tell us how to pay those who took up employment in a field of 3 and 4 salary, the team did not start working. The meeting of the Committee made it clear that it was the Environment and Resource Ministry that had not been able to provide funding to pay these people for their jobs, pay for their jobs, and that this made them a professional group 3 and 4 not set up. A respectable president. Why do I mention this? Yes, because there is already a disagreement because a professional group 3 and 4 were not working. I'm concerned that all this work is as professional as possible because I participated in it, a respectable president, who is the head of the industrial network, to conclude and to fully agree with what became the law of No. 48/2011, about a protection and energy efficiency programme. I don't think the ministry did it, and I'm having a big part in the mess that's coming up here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u98	A respectable president. Because of the senator's final words, I don't understand what he calls a fuckup when I make a motion here from these professionals. With regard to the professional groups, I would point out to him what I said in my talk that both professionals 1 and 2 were not appointed until April 16, 2014. Framework plans and laws were naturally accepted in 2013. It was a year before professional groups were appointed. Task groups are appointed by the task force, not by the Ministry. It's this arm length from us, that's why it's the task management that orders the professional groups. It is true, I have heard that this first year was a debate over salary to professional groups, but it involved all but not least the class 1 and 2 professionals who took up the work in May 2014 but the others did not operate until later, as mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u99	V.E.G. President. Here's the confirmation of the highest. A minister of what I'm saying is that differences or that the Ministry couldn't guarantee money to pay professional groups for their jobs, resulting in the failure of professionals 3 and 4 until one year ago. The group of 1 and 2 are right, they started earlier, but there are three groups and 4, which are to evaluate these factors, and that is, of course, part of creating as much agreement as I have on a budget to be made, could not be accepted because of the lack of money. This has been stated, a respected president, in a work programme for the proposal presented here or the report presented by the Management Board at the 3rd step of the Framework Programme. This is clear, and it will be better if there is a difference of opinion between the minister and those who came to the meeting for this. But it was spoken quite clearly, for it says that a professional group 4 did not trust to appreciate and actually returned because of wealth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u100	A respectable president. I'm sorry to say that, but there's a misunderstanding on the Senator's case. I'm saying that the order of professional groups 1 and 2 could be said to have started a year later because they were handling pay. It has nothing to do with the order of professionals 3 and 4, unfortunately. I don't know why it was, I wasn't in the Ministry at the time. When I came to work, I stressed that I wanted groups 3 and 4 to start too. That's why they started later. It is true that the proletariat group 1 and 2 went on a year later than would have been necessary, because there was some sort of trouble over pay I've heard, but there's nothing to do with groups 3 and 4. Nothing. There are other reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u101	Madam President. First, I want to make sure that my formal proposal that this case will be referred after the previous application. to the Environment and Transport Committee and to ask for Mrs. President to vote for this proposal, if indicated below. What I want to ask the highest. A minister is the one that has developed, or what has been pointed out, in the reviews for wild salmon in Þjótur and has been confirmed to have no uncertainty about the loss of salmon fish in the studies that have been completed. The uncertainty still exists, apart from the fact that environmental assessments of these projects, Urtic acidification and Holtic activation, range from 2001-2003 and they have been charged with the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources that this old environmental assessment is still valid, so they are still asking for a ruling, I guess. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether she is concerned about the position of the wild salmon, which, of course, is of immense value to ecosystems, is this uncertainty of its consequence. I realize that it is debated whether it is on the level of the task management to take a stand for it compared to the frames it operates within. Still, it is responsible for the highest responsibility. Minister that no decisions will be made that could threaten the value we have in life, except that this has not mentioned the economic value of the salmon. It is sometimes as if economic values are very narrowly defined and primarily derived from energy efficiency. Of course, we do know that they can be more extensive, e.g. for wild salmon, which involves high economic value.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u102	A respectable president. I thank you for the inquiry, but I also said in my speech that I do not intend to deal with the pros and cons of whatever option is set here, whether to the right or to the left or to the left, or to power, or to protect or to wait. On the other hand, of course, my answer is yes, I have the best interests of wild salmon, very much so. I can also describe it, although it is not our case here, that I think we could also begin to fit ourselves considerably in salmon farms, which we do far and wide throughout the country. It shows that I'm worried about the wild salmon. But that is not relevant because I do not intend to go into the subject of certain flaws or advantages. I offer this with the logical explanations and other statements presented in the proposal from the Project Management Board and the professional groups who have been working. That will be my argument in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u103	Madam President. If we do so, we will face a specific challenge. A minister does not intend to discuss his previous case. on a framework of individual merits and defects. V.E.G. The minister proposes this proposal as his proposal, making the proposal of a project administration as his recommendation, probably after the Supreme Court. A minister has considered the pros and cons of every option discussed. V.E.G. A minister is responsible for protecting ecosystems and protecting biodiversity. So how's it going to be? Minister to protect the wild salmon stock? What other instruments have the highest power. Ministers within the system when these activates have been placed into a novelty party? How's the top? A minister to respond to what the following shows that there is no uncertainty about the survival of the wild salmon in the ongoing studies? It's a suggestion of the highest order. Minister under here. Then I must ask the highest. Minister: How will she make sure that this suggestion to place these inoculation classes does not cause irreparable damage to the wild salmon strain? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u104	A respectable president. This proposal, this specific activation, is designed to assess the environmental impact of the Agency as well as all others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u105	It's an old environmental assessment that's been reported...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u106	I have already offered these suggestions, and of course I know that they are offered in my name. This suggestion, I'm agreeing to it as a task management project on a frame plan suggests that I believe in it when it comes to it, and I said in my speech that there should not be a particular point to be taken into consideration; the project management does not follow up on a particular point, but it is the overall assessment. That's the law. That's why we have more factors to deal with, like the activations as easily as possible. A senator took care of it. There is an assessment of the environmental impact in the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u107	Madam President. I'm gonna get involved. V.E.G. Minister here proposes a proposal for action on a national protection and energy management programme. The Executive Director of the 3rd Project has proposed this proposal to the minister and minister transport it unchanged here at the council. As we know, there are not many days left in this council that now operates, so you wonder if the highest. The minister suggests that this council proposal is granted at this council for the elections ahead. I don't know if it can be judged as good or bad, if it waits or doesn't wait, that's so thought - provoking, I think. It's a big, big case that's been in progress, and professional groups have gone through it, and suggest this. It is, of course, in many cases a symphony, and perhaps, as the head of the project management has said, that everyone is unhappy with something from his own direction, both those who want more protection and those who want more use and those who want more use, and those who want to work for the lower part of During wounds will further look at the activation of the unique salmon species and what happens if the lower part of Blue wounds undergoes energy efficiency and will be applied there. Of course, there are countless questions that cannot be answered, and it can hardly be expected that during the short time that remains of the council, it will be carefully covered. I've said that I appreciate the tool, which a frame plan is, much and think it's the tool we've agreed on and should use. Of course, there may always be some conclusion that humans for various reasons do not vote with a final proposal that is made on the part of a task management committee, and they must also have the freedom to have different opinions on those topics. But there I believe that men are trying to approach and meet the viewpoints in these issues with a lot of professional working groups in identifying and sorting these benefits and by the methodology that the committee operates on. I have placed great confidence in the work programme management. It was scheduled in March 2013, and its time for appointment expires in March 2017. I believe that we have been very lucky with professionals inside the table and that other young president of the Project Management Board, Stefán Gíslason, who is a very professional professional in this field and is pursuing a very careful work ethic. It is also true that more often than not, money is lacking in the ability of professional groups to work as it should. There is also something that we need to take to heart here, the financial authority and the relevant minister to ensure sufficient funds for this work to be done and not be reduced because of lack of financial resources. And what has also been criticized is that once certain areas are protected and declared peaceful, they are like that process stopped, the peace process, and that they are eventually completed, whether because of lack of capital or other things. But I find it very important to get those areas that have been at peace in total shelter and peace light and the process that will end in order to do so. There's the benefits that have been in the debate on energy efficiency, Sógglældur, and under Holtation and Uryr deactivation, and Hagming was in there. The West of the East, Eastern Idolatry, University, Investigation, Blender and Reconstruction. If I mention only what's in my vast part of the world on the West, i.e. Resumption, which remained as a result of this conclusion, was an Eastern reactivation prerequisite for the development of activation. I know that the locals are eagerly waiting for that assignment to start because Westerners are in such a state that electricity release is lacking. It would be extremely important to have this ringline in there and a straitjack to the bottom of Icefjörg's deep. I feel like it's like this, and it could be. Would that be a huge improvement for a quarter? Of course, the Western Union stresses that the energy produced in that region is being used for work construction on the West. I think it's time for us to suggest that jobs and human life can flourish there and that companies can be started and that, of course, there won't be any big business on the scale we know here in the capital area and in the East, but that's still a small business for the area, and we're talking about maybe a company that would take between 10 and 30 megawatts or over 10 megawatts on average. We know the calcium filament plant at Bildudal and another industry that is in the pipes if that happens. I believe, of course, that there is good work to be done. This proposal has come up, and the people who are involved are people who have done a good work ethic. It may well be said that there was a lack of some factors in this capacity to make this tool, which is a frame plan, even better and better, as a social impact on many grounds and to strengthen the introduction of the public at previous levels on environmental assessment and other factors, that it can be achieved, not just at the end of the work permit. Of course, at any one time, it is the role of the Generals to fix and improve and learn from experience. I think we can always improve all the tools we have agreed on. But it's a tool that's made it crosscholeic, and we'll agree to work on it. It was very bad when a professional employment committee at the time began to rip out certain advantages and one - sided plans to contribute it, that is a complete class of styles, and that is not exemplary, and does not reveal the senses of those who are employed in a professional committee in this category. It is more aggressive than anything else. All right. It didn't work out, and I think people learned from the experience of not taking something to them that we've agreed on as a nation and as the General Board to assign task management a framework to work with their professional groups and providing a minister and also the process of reporting where the public has the potential to comment on the results. I think it's a good one, even though we don't always agree on the outcome. But it is for us to continue working with this at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u108	A respectable president. I'm sοme sο sο sο sο sο sο sο sοundly that the case is made, but nοt much. That reminds us of the last discussion we had when we discussed a frame plan, which was tough and boring. I wonder what. A senator is very likely to do so again if they are going to take it so late to the council as well as if the case goes to the job committee. Then I would especially ask because the last time was justified. The job committee accepted the case because a waiting party was being transferred to a novelty party. This is a protection party as well. I'd like to ask you what. A senator down to the Urfrafs. When we were the last to talk about this, the talk was the most about the lower part of the River wound. I studied at the time these specific three inducers there. In terms of my upper activations, I merely softened the position to activate there, since I'm not against water - power activation. This is a very good way of creating electricity and one of the best we know, in fact, if that's gone. Thus, there is an important part in trying to save what will be saved in the future against climate change, for example. On the other hand, when I went and looked at Uryrfós, I thought to myself, " It's crazy to activate this thing. It's completely crazy. I could see with my own eyes, by looking at nature, that I could not have written down except in poetry why. That is why I wonder if Uryrs is put into a company of activation, as the motion assumes, what religion may have. A senator makes it clear that it is then stopped on the basis of such views later in the process when it comes to evaluating the next step? How dangerous is it? A senator says that Uryrofos will be activated if this proposal is accepted here at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u109	Madam President. I haven't been happy with setting a lower part of the blue, and I've talked against it here at the council. I believe that there are other advantages and visual advantages as well. While the task management programme may not indicate that it should only be looked forward to the public's experience with the method of activation, there are a number of values. But I feel that it should be drawn in, and I think time is working with us on that subject, us natureists, and we should be careful about activation. I believe we have to look to various other valuables, the value of Uryrofos and that area we're talking about there. We know that this area, what we call hydro-engineers, is a transwarp, and it can be drawn back to some degree. But I'm also worried about this unique salmon stock in the river. I think there's good reason to worry about that. Whether or not I'm concerned that if the case goes up on a job committee, and there's an impenetrable in these matters and I want to get too much involved in it myself - I just don't realize it. I'm on a job board, but a professional health committee will retire at the end of this month, so I don't think there's much time to do either good or bad about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u110	A respectable president. It's not because of them. Even so, I understand that it can certainly look that way, but because it's a problem. Work committee, but not why. The environment and transport committee I would have thought would be a great deal of good taking care of these matters, especially since logical support is highest. The current environmental minister was that this would be a job committee because it had special emphasis on the innovation sector. But I now leave it between parts. Let us see how it all works out, as well as the subsequent Congress work. I noticed here in the motion that at the Urnar deactivation, by permission of a president: The effectiveness of seals and the impact of water volume and flow changes on walking pathways, spawning stations, and feeding centres of salmon fish will not be destroyed at the level of administration established by the task management board. It is naturally discussed in the assessments of the environmental impact of the project and in the permit sectors. Now I'm not an expert on this case, I'm pretty big, and it came into existence before my time here at the General Assembly. I know the material mainly from what it went through earlier in the election season, as we all shall regret. But what I notice in this argument is that none of these visual criteria are identified. I can't figure out where they're going to be. This refers to walking routes, spawning stations, and feeding grounds for salmon fish. There is all logical support that will be well paid and worth considering. I suppose it's the acceptable process to take, if this is going to be agreed here, which will address these specific views. But I fear that the visual effects will just remain because nothing is expected of them in the process afterwards if my understanding is correct that I am not sure is the case. So I wanted to ask you what. A senator whether he considers that aspect to be a fact if we agree with it and we take some procedures that will only take place in the logical support mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u111	Madam President. I think a lot of people are unsure about what's going to happen with the lower part of the River wound if this council's resolution is approved. Is there any chance of trusting in the follow-up measures, if implemented, that if the environmental assessment for the implementation of the Agency will ensure further investigation of the product's head? Familiars have differing opinions about whether they will guarantee the materials they need. There are conflicting opinions on this, and those who have criticized the risk of opening the salmon strain have not relied on these contours. How can we, then, value it so that we can be trusted? What I can say on this matter is that you have to think about the advantages and weaknesses of this whole business, and I will do that in yourself. It may not be good to tear this whole thing up, either. Those with great innovations will start to tear down many benefits from a protective party. We, who are rather on the other side of being a guardian, are going to rip out a particular element we would like to take from it. I'm a little afraid that if we start opening up all this stuff, we'll call in something that we might not be able to handle. We are not alone if at least we open this case all up. I'd like to see that it was going to go on, if we start doing this proposal, which I'm not saying is going to be the end in the next few weeks, that we have something in our hands about what's waiting for the lower part of During the year for an even better study of the salmon strain and what would happen to him if it were activated there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u112	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney, the daughter of Magnúsdóttir, who gave this talk on Whaleting, which I understand from her that she is waiting for some eager wait. A senator has read the EEA's review of environmental impact, which has now been given to the EEA's Environment Agency, which shows that if these projects are going along as expected from the challenge process, they will, as it puts it, fall by as far as 21% from what is currently known. Three lagoons are planned, where there are now several lakes. They can reach an area of up to nine square miles [9 sq km]. It is thought to be permanent and irreversible through modification. The lakes that go under the larval activation all fall into the category of special protection based on a- team in 61.g. track No. 60/2013, about nature protection. Disturbing ecosystems and soils listed there should be avoided unless clearly necessary. This procedure also states that action should be carried out in the context of a procedure resulting in a disorder of such natural phenomena. Then again, a respectable president says: It is presented in the primary assessment report that the conditions of the affected waters will be substantially altered due to large changes in water height and are considered to be substantially negative, but potentially reversible. I want to trace it because I've heard it before. A senator who is a left-green man speaks very firmly for this activation. I'm very opposed to her. I think it would have a major negative impact, not only on the Whale River, but also a very negative effect on the impressive falls system in the Eyvindir area and on the River Snowy. This, of course, is shown in this report from the EEA. That's why I wonder what I'm doing. A senator can refer to himself as a protectionist when he follows this activation as a result of what he sees.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u113	Madam President. I'm a guardian, and I'm a novelist. I live in Iceland, and I live in Westfjords where these two options need to be played together. Like the rest of the country, the Western world cannot be found without people living there or having anything to do with them. It's just life in the country. We wouldn't build Iceland if there wasn't something we didn't have to do. I have appreciated the environmental impacts in this area so that the interests of the Western world are more valuable, so that living there will be more suitable and strengthening. I don't think it would be worth much to travel around the West if nobody lived there anymore. I don't want to see it that way. We must also look at it and be realistic and alive in that somewhere in which we need to be activated in order to maintain normal employment and human life in the country. Of course, we try to minimize everything and the unmoved nature, but we will never avoid it. That's why we have the tools we have here by hand, a frame plan, which are stratified by certain standards of protection, use and waiting. The task management has set these two options, Crooking and Eastern activation, into a novelty party. I say here and now, and I'm not afraid to say that I'm a nature protectionist, and I want to protect and fight what can be protected, but in this case I think that there should also be a matter of interest based on the West, and I don't believe that this is a noise and a destroyer of nature, so that it should not be activated by the Investle and Eastern activation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u114	A respectable president. I'd like to encourage you. The senator to revise his view of the activation in this case and at least introduce yourself to the review of the previous month, which is from the EEA on this project. According to Article 3. the laws of new nature protection laws should be aimed at preserving landscapes that are special or rare or of special value because of aesthetic and/or cultural value, protecting waterways, waterfalls and lakes where possible and protecting the uninhabited regions of the country. The United States, a special definition of land, is on a very smaller scale. We have orders to protect them. We have to keep it because if we don't do it, it will eventually lead to nothing left behind, called uninhabited territory. So I think that there is good reason for men to reconsider these plans. I'm delighted that the environment, in accordance with the laws of nature for the new release, is a very special warning on the EEA at the time of this implementation. I think the decision to put this activation and this idea in use at its time has been taken into a completely different atmosphere, a completely different environment than we are in now. Now we are in a community in a very different place than just five or ten years ago. It's not like there's unemployment in the country. That's exactly how we're importing people, so we have to move in with people to do what we can. The evidence that this is necessary and that habitat conditions in areas simply do not apply today. I wondered, " Who will benefit from this project? ' Why is there no reason to allow nature to enjoy the doubt? For the most part, the area on the West is unmoved, it is extremely valuable unmoved, just as it is. [[The president calls.]] There is no need to destroy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u115	Madam President. It is now that these issues will always be controversial. We just need to find it in our heart where we find it. Of course, there is no way to appease everything we can think of. The people who speak for the combined use and protection of the environment are just as great as those who may not take the step in that we too need to be looked at so that we need to activate, like in this area, in order to strengthen the supply safety of electricity and the build-up of jobs. The locals who live there know and we now know the area of Aarnesfjords and the Beach Coasts that it has become very weak. I don't want to see them build up like Hestun in the Gulf or the Cape of the Horn Coast. Many may find it helpful to come to the Westfjords and go to the Horn Coast and walk around these parts and only meet tourists, but there are also tourists living in this area that work in tourism and that they need to have the access to electricity safety. [[Up front.]] There are demands to maintain good equipment, good hotels, and facilities. People on the West also need a job to build on. Power supply safety needs more, and it needs more energy than it has today. Thus, the facts are the facts. I will make every effort to support the fact that in places such as the West Coast, people live under the same circumstances as the ideals of the southwestern corner, where they have been activated right, left for an icicle, and then they would have more power to stand in their feet and fight it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u116	A respectable president. I have to say, it gets me a little Spanish to see that now the administrative body decides to come in here with a proposal for Congress at a time when, in fact, it should have been called to a new assembly if everything had been normal and of course, it is my opinion that long ago this council should have been ended. Now, however, some final meters are trying to complete a case that the government believes is important to complete before a intermission and then an election. Now I understand that according to the council plan, Congress is expected to be part of this month, or September 29. How many Christmas days are exactly in that schedule, I haven't considered, but I suppose they're probably only ten or so and some committee days against the coming. In my mind, it is not nearly enough time to go to the work necessary to carefully review the recommendations given on the basis of the highest standard. Environment Minister. True, I rejoice that in this proposal made by the Minister to remain unchanged from the task management, there are activation options that have undergone professional management, it is very positive and good, but as shown in the counter-regulating circumstances. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn the son of Gunnarsson before, and in my word, and in my spirit. paritaprevir The Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands Magnóttir here, too, are political viewpoints. It is simply the question of what we want to do and how we want to make decisions based on the professional information we have and other viewpoints that we may consider important to the people before making a decision. While it is important to present a matter in the process based on a professional assessment, it is, of course, in the end that the people of the country's choice of representatives at the National Assembly, who determine the viewpoint to be taken when things are determined, including what to protect and what to be new when it comes to priming ideas. This is in addition to what the preceding two activations have been in the lower part of The wound. The decision for activation based on the nation's largest water drop, which has already been performed several times, includes not only professional but also political decision-making. I feel that at the point we stand as a community today, I have every reason to take sides in political parties to the proposal presented here by voters and there are voters in the country, the public of the country, as the goal of a policy in this case. Besides, I don't think it's an issue to be discussed with the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee. This is part of how the administrative sector has failed with this category all this terms, either by planning at first to settle the Environment Ministry, to have it as an additional service of another highest level. A minister or a member of the Parliament will make dramatic changes with a variety of codices and declarations on behalf of members of the Parliament when these suggestions have been discussed at the council as famous. Sadly, there has been no peace in this process during this terms. It is written in the accounts of much of the council how the matter was held. No attempt has been made to do this, so that there can be any peace or harmony in the process. Therefore, I feel that there is good reason for the matter to wait for a new assembly to meet, that new things will follow in the strength of the support the political parties receive in the coming elections. I realize that I'm telling myself about that job because I'm not running for the next election. But I think the situation is just this. There's too short time to finish this case. For what? The Council's Environment and Transport Committee, which should, of course, be on this issue, has not been able to deliver the transport programme, three and a half years have not been sufficient. Is it really possible in a ten - day period to make a suggestion for a synoptic conclusion on the protection and energy use of land areas? In addition, there is a particular concern about how the administrative body has maintained a peaceful process when it comes to the priming ideas that have been placed in a system of protection. Nothing has been done on that subject, no work has been done since man's shut down the peace description process of the Þjórður that was started at the beginning of the season. I'd like to further show that there's a lot of resistance to developing plans in the middle of Iceland's highlands. It is being proposed to rock wave activation, which is hard to predict to be done without a lot of rabble and without a special line of over explosions or in the middle of Iceland's highlands. Even the chairman of the Independence Party has declared that he does not want to see such things at all. Is it not, then, a reason for us to wait when it has become a parapolitic position to do so, a respectable president, to stop and think about our actions in these matters? I think so. I also think, in view of what was going on in my exchange of words, of course. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Island Magnústir to revise the plans for the Whiskering program. I think people should also consider the reports and reports we've heard of the past loss of what the industry is doing for the community, whatever it is that comes from their profits, how an Icelandic society gains on the projects involved. What money is coming in the box? If there's no money in the box, there may be other compelling reasons for attacking these projects, yes, there is no need for jobs. But they don't need jobs, they need people. We need to import labor into the country in order to do all the work that needs to be done. It is for these reasons that I have traced to my speech, which I feel is a good reason to wonder about what way the greater part of the council is by offering this proposal for Congress now at this point. I don't fully understand what the administrative part is doing, whether it's really his idea that in a very short time, in some sort of rush treatment, and because this time the top of the board has kindly missed making dramatic changes in the project management proposals, this should just go slowly and slowly and quietly through the council. I'm not ready to participate. I'll never, ever, ever while I'm alive, accept the fact that Uryrofos will be activated. Never.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He made, among other things, a subject of the construction of the Þjósar. The available data make clear that there is no uncertainty about the survival of the wild salmon species. Although the subject was, of course, considered, it appears that the box around this work does not assume that it can be completed so that we can conclusively say that the estimated activations will not harm this strain. I asked the highest. A minister of this before, because I think it's a big thing if the Council is going to make a decision to put these specific advantages into a group of innovations that may make this stock a threat, which, of course, is part of the biological diversity we have, of which we are to protect. I haven't yet, and didn't get it from the highest. Minister, find satisfying answers to what can be done. Where can you stop the matter in view of the fact that an old environmental assessment is available and has been reported and is being treated at the Environmental and Resource Commission on these activations, but we have not come up with a conclusion from that process. If it's decided to place these inoculation classes, at least I haven't got any answers to how we can intervene if we recognize it as a threat to the wild salmon population. As I pointed out earlier, this is not just a matter of value in the living things, of course, it's a great economic value that I don't know that I may have made a special assessment. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who knows these matters very well this whole arrangement, what he thinks of this particular difference in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u118	A respectable president. It is of interest, when reviewing the prehistoric history of this case and the prehistory of the inert in Þjótur, that certain measures have been taken to stop the inactivation of the salmon stock in the river, which has led to its success. In some ways, especially when it comes to the decision of Aggression, thought to work; that it has been done so much that what has been done has been done. They are totally ignoring the fact that it was part of counterbillary operations and because it has done well, it should only be entered. That's right. That's right. A senator asks about this - this is not certain that this does not have a negative effect on the wild salmon population. Not so in this case has nature been able to enjoy the doubt. Rather, it would be a matter of decision making without knowing exactly how this works. What I'm saying is, why are people going to do this? It is generally said that when you talk about the importance of attacking such projects, especially the local people, that energy will be replaced in your home area. There's a huge blues going on in this area. There's a lot of tourists out there. There's a crazy trawler all year round in this area. What are they using to activate? Why? Who should be involved in the continuum transfunctioners and the work that is important to the local population is expected to exist in this area? I am so completely incomprehensible that humans are acting in such a way that they do not use their time now to review the process in order to explore all possible information, any possible effects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I believe the project management is working as well as it can within the market range. Perhaps it is not enough to answer all the questions that may arise. Then you wonder, and that's what you're talking about. A senator mentioned in his talk that he expressed concern about the deadline. I'm gonna take into account what's going on. A senator, for here is a proposal made by the task management board. There are many good things in this suggestion, I take it out, and I think, as I said, that this is here being worked as hard as possible within the framework of the project management is intended. But there are still some questions, questions about the social effects and economic effects that have been discussed, and they may have been defined far too narrow in the discussion to date. I mentioned earlier, at the end of my first opponent, that in the wild salmon there might be as much economic value as there is, for example. in some form of energy efficiency, for example. The main issue may be that once the suggestions are agreed on, there may be no specific ways to look into them further. Hv. A senator came to his answer earlier that, in reality, it was not a pressure. You wonder if we are in chapters, although we have been changing in recent years, too focused on thinking that there are always some developments to be carried on, that it is very important that we have a stable program even if we are not sure what that energy is going to do. Granted, it is important to have these categories, but when you have questions, you ask yourself: " Is it really an irreversible decision, even though projects are not rejected, to put the activations into a novelty party? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u120	A respectable president. There are not many situations in which environmental assessment has reversed the decision to engage in activation if anyone has. There is hope for a person to ask: Is there no reason to stop and consider the matter better, since making decisions that will be very difficult to come back? Of course, I trust a project management and the professional groups who have been working very well. However, we need to consider what political climate has been involved in this ideal period. It has not been so that the government has given this task to the management board a task and then let it be totally out of control. On the contrary, it has been carried out in a way that special activation options have been taken out of parentheses, directly to the task management that special attention should be given. This was done in 2013 or when the project manager said that he had neither the time nor the position to review the priming options that the minister assigned her to cover. Then it was the worst of all. The matter came into this council, a greater part of the employment committee, not to mention these proposals, made dramatic changes, added all kinds of activation options, claimed that the committee itself had won the professional assessments as a lack and had already decided that all these activation options could be applied in a practical way. It is in such a political climate that the task management is returning these suggestions to us now. So I think that it will be perfectly normal, in view of the fact that there has been a great deal of war around these matters and that the greater part here in the council will be held up for the next election period and taken over in another political atmosphere and other political segments here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u121	A respectable president. Hv. 6th. Smoke. That's the end of an answer for the place I wanted to take it. I heard from a fine talk. A senator who is always convincing in this category that he is more militant than the man standing here, though I certainly consider myself a naturalist, as I think most people in this room will call themselves. One of the things I've had trouble with this party is that when I explore the hydropower workers, I can't help being with them, but not all of them. Now I hope I'm not mistaken. Senator, he'll only correct me if I do, but I think his speech generally opposes water - power activation; I'm not going to put a word in his mouth, he'll just fix it here. What I wonder is why. A senator would like to have a process like a frame plan so that it would be in harmony with his expectations for nature protection and a strategy that could be run through the Council in some way in harmony and harmony. The reason I ask is because it's presented here, like now. A senator rightly pointed out, without the highest force. Ministers have changed, or there is a possibility that they will change this, so there is another problem. A senator comes in to see that there is a political threat to the matter itself. The idea behind everything, frame plan, is, of course, to create a system that can be acceptable to people, although, of course, not everyone will be happy about the results and not really, that is the case. I wonder what. A senator has some ideas about how to make this process better than it really is if this isn't the right process and if it's a professional process, and I have no reason to think it isn't, I wonder in short why it should be delayed. Why not take care of it at this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u122	A respectable president. I believe that during this election period, the steps have been taken, the success steps, in order to better review these issues with good and positive environmental protection legislation that we were able to complete here at the council and on the environment and transport committee. It is on the basis of the laws we are now seeing about the EEA's reviews of Insectation in which we refer to a law that we agreed on in that legislation. It would be desirable that we would not have to be involved in the nature protection and innovations that have marked these discussions in the past few decades, where people are always in some way at a poker game with the advantages involved, and the discussion has been marked by the fact that humans are using tremendous design, for example, suggest that there are six or seven sources of activation that they do not intend to achieve, but it is just negotiations. The idea is to replace someone else, one of two or three, and that is a minimum goal. That's what we see in the suggestions we see here. There are suggestions to add priming options, which the majority have considered enormously important. It's a political conflict, it's a shame, but it's us who are on the side of that conflict -- it's nothing but to pull back and talk to nature and be its spokesmen in everything. If it's not done, then there'll be a decrease in the distance between the falls, then the valleys and natural phenomena that we want to live in and about to return to future generations will be gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u123	A respectable president. Does that not mean, then, that we need only a change of system, a change of pace, to approach these decisions? I totally agree with what. Senator, I'm never going to vote by applying Urfyrus, I think it's crazy. I think it's totally out in the middle of nowhere that I'm going to activate there. Like I crossed over, we answered another one. Senator, it's not for professional reasons - I'm just seeing the waterfall and I'm thinking, "Is this going to be activated? Are they crazy? That is, in fact, all I have to support in itself, end up with aesthetic phenomenon, and certainly a political stand after all. But then I wonder: Here are some benefits of a protection party that I have to admit, in fact, that I haven't studied yet, but there are some of the energy measures that you recognize from the talk of this most excellent period, such as Holta surgery, Urrasphoid activation and Inhibiting and Stockholm. But the next thing I know, I agree. Senator. It's always political tensions. Somehow, we need to be able to settle it when we simply disagree on what we think is in activation, and what is not so ◯gali to activate, such as Urfrras. But I don't see a process for what I know I share with my head. A senator to the Uryrofostician. I don't see clearly, at least not at this point, a process in this merges all of this, a frame plan so called, which takes into consideration this tension and makes an opportunity to settle it on the ground I was describing, you know, aesthetics. This is always a professional evaluation. This is always a question of something that can be investigated and put in a box, some process, that needs to be, if it is to be professional. But the question remains: Will this really be enough to settle these political questions if not through a process where the Council changes its proposals?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u124	A respectable president. Of course, we can first respect the process that has already been chosen to use. As an example, I mention the laws of protection and use on which the synonym is based. Nowhere in the law is it assumed that specific activation options are taken in any particular way, but it is assumed that the procedure is repeated regularly, with the task management over specific activation options, examining a number of previously defined pairs, and that this will be submitted regularly to the minister, who offers a proposal for the council, such as the one discussed here. It wasn't done during this terms. However, they decided to take special activation options because it was not appropriate for them to follow the laws they have drawn up, to follow the procedure, as expected it would look. Of course, it was all done with what it was like to know that the last more things had made all sorts of changes and not done to the law, and that is why they would be authorized to make their own changes in this, etc. This is exactly the same as we can see in the case of a Lake Earth park, which is kind of an anti-Kaldur's Reactivation process, which is a healing aid for the Káljón Healing. And a decision-making session that's based on this kind of tension can never be good. Of course, such decisions will lead to the removal of things most sacred and most precious, the possession of which we have, and the obligation to return to future generations. There'll be nothing left of it. Only with this unscrupulous activation of the Beach Coast of the West will 21% of the vast West coasts disappear. That's no small thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u125	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister for providing this synopsis proposal. I say, " Who doesn't welcome it when a legal process is followed so completely? ' Here we have a report on 367 pages from the country's leading experts in this field. I don't know how many experts have come up with this case. The minister makes this unchanged without manually changing it as the former minister, the Svandís of Syghis Svavarsdóttir, did it in her behalf of all these experts and made that suggestion. Then comes the second. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, president of the left green, asks for the highest. Ministers how she will react to the rest and this in the report, these observations from the specialists, and the salmon stock in lower part of Þrjörg wounds, etc. So talk 'em out. Parliamentaries on the legal process of the intervening process. These experts have worked within that framework. We're here with a frame plan. Of course, there is work within that framework. I know why. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, knows better. She says that there are no ways to find out after this has been agreed on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u126	That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u127	It's just what these experts point out, in these terms regarding salmon institutions, and I'll just read this word for word, which is an opinion of Holta activation, by permission of the President: The economic management board now believes that the issue of uncertainty will not be eliminated at the level of administration on which the Commission operates; rather, it is normal to be discussed in the evaluation of the environmental impact of the project and in the permit activities. Is it not possible to intervene in this process?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u128	Political?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u129	Yes, political or professional? Not political, just professional. I'm just saying that this is exactly what it is. The employment committee pointed to her logical support when recommending and suggested that these activation options be carried out. If we do, we may be longer than we are now. These experts simply agree with the rationality of the job authorities in the last battle here on a frame plan, as assessed by the environmental impact of action, to be taken into account in this matter. All the talk that this is not a legal process, I get the feeling that when we start talking about the frame plan, it'll all go upside down. Hv. Councilmen Róbert Marshall and some others spoke of political tensions. Today, a minister of the law is following a legal procedure. Then come people, just the first speakers, talking about political tensions. I can answer that, I don't really know how it's supposed to be won, unless it's just that if these experts don't give a report in line with political thinking, it's impossible, then they should interrupt these experts. There was another sound in the eraser here in the last battle. It was considered earlier whether this case should be addressed to the employment committee rather than to the environment and transport committee. There's a couple of 'em. In response, members of the council felt that this committee was more qualified or incompetent, or what was said. But I'd like to point out that they're developing opportunities as a work committee was struggling to implement this last council, and it's confirmed here in this expert report if you'd like to read about it. If we just cross these main activation options, which I celebrate, and the employment committee tried to enter the last council, i.e. Scorpiotic activation, the experts agree that it belongs to a novelty class. There are no new data from the last Parliament on the activation, but it shows that the line will be inserted into a groundline. All of this was clear. So, with Holt activation, as I told you before, it's the environmental assessment of activities that affect salmon strains. The East Sides of Cyrsuvik have become a novelty class. There they appreciate it so that the eastern or the Grinch, they link this up a little, this option, at least to suggest that the second option be activated. All right. I agree with you about the East Sides, it's better if we keep testing ourselves there. But there's a lot of tourism around the Easterns, and we're in Selintun, and there's a lot of traffic. That is why I am a little surprised that the Bundlerod is on the ground where so many tourists can see him, and it can destroy their journey to see all these windmills in Burgundy. So I'm just going through it with these fine experts. The flamethrowers are still a novelty class. I must say, I was surprised to learn in the last frame that the flamethrowers were in a novelty class. I must admit that I only became responsible for their decision, unless it was a political transfer between classes, perhaps that was the case. But with regard to Firethrowers, that is where the town government of Grindavik stepped in and entered the main organization, flamethrowers, and Firethrower test. There she put in the main organization that is a neighborhood protection area, making sure that the park is not permitted to be drilled in itself by flamethrowers. Thus, they will be drilled along a garden so that their crates will remain intact. We can have opinions about individual activations. A swing neck in Cyrsuvik, I can totally agree that there are conflicting opinions about him and put a question mark on him. But this award, if we're going to follow some legal process, we're going to have to do it, we're going to have to take it seriously. I want to end this with words of reason. paritaprevir It's the Lilja Rafney Islands of Magnúsdóttir, who says we don't live in Iceland without seeing nature. [[The president calls.]] If we are to live here, we must be realistic, physical, and somewhere else, we must engage. [[The president calls.]] So many were with him. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u130	A respectable president. I would have wanted to continue my conversation with you now. 6th. Smoke. s., to the 5th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! I was born and thank him for his speech. But I cut to the ear. A senator said that someone didn't think this was a legal process. I have to admit that I've only been running around from time to time, but I haven't noticed that today's debate was about whether it was a legal process or not, I haven't heard any disagreement about it. The main disagreement I've heard today has discussed the subject in which it belongs, i.e. whether the matter belongs at home. Work committee or what. Environmental and transport committees, especially due to words at the highest level. present environmental minister Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson, last time we were biting on these matters. I'd like to think that I agree that we need some legal process around these decisions, a process that the state will agree with, and that I have not seen a lot of objections in this case today, though people, of course, have their opinions on special options, to form me. I'm against Uryrofos reactivation, and I'm going to stay with the wind. 6th. Smoke. So, Róbert Marshall. But there must be some room for the so - called political conflict. I'm asking because I have a problem with this myself, so I'd like to hear more from it. That's what a senator does. Of course, if this process is going to go down here, you're gonna wonder what we're doing here and talk about it. If we're going to change this, we're going to put everything in the attic because we were going to create this legal process, which, of course, was a failure, away from who it was teaching each other over the years. Why don't we discuss this political conflict that must be there for something special? [[The president calls.]] Or is it not our place in the High Council just because it's a legal process?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. I can totally say that it's very difficult to appreciate what's political and what's not. I've tried not to think politics, that's just how I'm made. But what's politics? There are human opinions, they measure where you are in politics, your left - handed or right - handed. It is a tradition that there is a distinction. My view of this is that we have to listen to the experts, and then it's political food. What's politics? I say, it's politics if you want to activate in your territory, in your local region, you have a completely different thought where it suits you and your closest or around your environment, but if it's to activate somewhere else in the country, it's impossible, it's not right. In that sense, all of politics is looked like but perhaps more of personal opinions that I would have thought were worth more in this than some political bitch.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u132	A respectable president. I thought about talking about a meeting administration earlier and complaining that an answer is allowed only twice for each senator because this is a conversation that I would like to continue a few more times, perhaps we'll come back later. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator asks, "What's politics?" I can't give a clear answer to it right here and now, but when it comes to this case, I would think that in its simplest format it was a question of nature protection against industry, where it always goes nowhere together. Sometimes it goes together. I am, for example. In general, or in general, the view that we need aquifers in order to create energy wisely. We need to make energy, it's not exactly selective. However, I still feel that it is lacking in speech. This political conflict, as we called it earlier, is welcomed by a senator. I heard why. A senator criticizes earlier that someone did not call this a legal process, something that I still cannot figure out. A senator, who opened his speech by asking, " Shouldn't we rejoice when we obey the law? ' Then he started discussing the former U.S.A. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir about how she had done something. Then, of course, we are close to the subject we've been in when it comes to this group of subjects during the election season, to ask questions about who was bad first, who started and who followed the process and who was not. I see no disagreement here that legal procedures are being carried out. All I hear is that people want to talk about it because they care about Iceland in any sense whether it's because of nature protection or the innovations I realize that sometimes people want their affection for land and country. I wonder what. A senator was referring when he went to the psalms when he at the same time criticizes the fact that this is a political scene. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u133	A respectable president. That was a good time. A senator earlier asked when we were going to follow the procedure. I couldn't hear better than what I heard. A senator would have said that. Maybe I misheard something. Political discussion, I thought it was a bit colored by the last council when we, in good faith, believed that we were doing the right thing here by all these experts, suggested to change this proposal, thought that the council had the power to change it so that certain priming options would be used. At that time, we were shouted and called all names of evil. We were called Taliban, and I don't know what or what.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u134	I apologized to you for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u135	Yes, but it describes the atmosphere then. [[Up front.]] We were crying out, and particularly the head of the Committee for political interference. It was classified as a political bitch. That's just what I might want to avoid. I wasn't the first person to mention that word right now in this discussion, political bitch. But I trust we'll be able to review the reports from all these experts. I respect the Minister for not messing with them and only bringing them to me unchanged. I'm on top of it. Minister for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u136	Mr. President. It's an interesting discussion here. I've got to start now. The senator concluded. He began earlier to talk about his not thinking about the matter politically, when he himself was standing here, claiming to represent certain stakeholders, of course politics. Staying here and reviewing these last days, which we discussed in the frame of mind, may be in line with how that was true. The desire to influence a particular process in some way, even if it is a professional one, does not make that decision. No one has ever known that I knew in here, but it doesn't change it, and the senator can't deny that there was a total vulgar bitch going on when it was all literally turned upside down. Happily, they were reassigned to the Father's House, and the situation was kept. I think that was the best thing for it. Here, too, certain discrepancies were made in the matter of the day. A senator to the chairman of the left movement a ◯ green supply. Sadly, she had to step aside and could not go back to the senator to correct the man she was going to do, but she will no doubt come to realize that when this matter is discussed later. Regarding what's under here and the changes we're changing, it's like going on and on and on such a delicate matter as Iceland's natural nature that it's never gonna be so that we can all be happy. I think we're all so smart that we can figure that out. This also does not mean that we cannot exert ourselves vigorously for things we do not believe in or for what we believe. When this is where an emotionally charged word has fallen, like a snooze. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall said that Uryrs would not be activated during his lifetime. It's just a feeling and his thing that you understand, so once you've come back and seen him. It's political to listen to what you think, and what you appreciate, and I'm not talking about these people who are so many in the wild and who are around them with great respect. Under these circumstances, there are changes that people don't agree with. Because the senator mentioned a lot of activity in places other than personal study, that would be okay instead of anywhere else. I welcome the results that come here. There's not a lot of people in my district that's likely to fit in, so I'm just saying it here. Based on the reviews that have been presented, it is clear that we are applied for Hafuna ideals and are activated there. For example, it doesn't feel like me. I fully support the findings of the Committee in this regard, and I actually have the Shiver River all together and the glacier in Skavetor, and what a joy it is over this conclusion. If we fail to take note of it, when we speak of even the third highest values in every region of the country that is discussed - then we can debate how we approach things that are not so clear - but when they are in the picture and are thoroughly logical about what this will mean. I went to Ald Island Falls myself in the summer and had not been there since I was a kid. It is a magnificent environment and it would be a disaster if activated there so that both Ingvarfs and Aldofos would change so much that it would not be the same area. Also, there's very little reasoning here what's really going on, not only would lead to a reduction in the attendance of tourists, but, in fact, the bases of the heathen and the falcons, the performance and layoffs of the country, the 16 species of birds on a movie list, etc. and cultural landscapes and other activities are set up here. Of course, there are many suggestions for priming here that are put in the protection that has been passed and will continue. It may be a man's opinion of the situation, but I don't know how anyone can take the edge off. I think it's so crazy that I don't have the sense of it. There's been massive tourism, not just for the Taxors, but for the whole country. We know about the escape trips and the likes of it and the bird inspections and other other things. I'm going to be able to read here because we're left green, but we have strong opinions about these matters. It is not that there is necessarily one or all of us. Rather, we strive to view it with reason. The left movement, however, provided a green supply in Skafurvegur sent a resolution that has not changed since 2005. She'll say, with President's permission: ▪ The Earth's Tartars and glaciers shape the appearance and image of the Tegafur and are the basis of the environmental life system of the region from glaciers to the sea. The future opportunity involves protecting them and using noncommunications in the face of multilingual outdoor activities, hunting, tourism, agriculture, and other environmentally friendly jobs. The significance of the water supply for bird living, the rearing of fish plants, both freshwater fish and marine fish, is also invaluable. There's talk here about the tourism at Skavetund, which is in rapid growth and the reference to the river storms that created the region with a unique position, and I went in here before. These are important years for the entire environment. The need for electricity is not so great that we can overpower it. I think it's perfectly clear. We need much more to look into what we have already done and see if we can use what is better, and, of course, there is always this so - called question of selling electricity to aluminium and other departments at a very low price. It's a capitalist for itself that's been discussed here repeatedly. I decided to take these areas in particular for this brief period of time to discuss what comes into the northern districts, west and east, because it may now be what is directed toward my ideal and, in fact, more than that. However, others may have been talking more about what is involved in the regularity and rock and other matters, so this is a matter of doubt as to whether a head should be established during this council when the issues have been taken so briefly to this present government and its members. There are good things here, in my opinion, that I was here to review, but there are also other things here that I find hard to deal with. As soon as I say that it will probably rarely be possible to meet everyone in this, of course, to fight for what we believe is right and to try to prove our case convincingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u137	A respectable president. We're going back to the frame plan as we've done a few times and a lot during this terms. I'd like to start by saying that, in spite of a nice conversation I had here for a while. 6th. Smoke. So, Róbert Marshallur, and some more of them. The members of Congress are very important to me in this matter that we stick to what comes from a professional opinion. I have a little problem, though, which I have only studied in reply earlier. I don't feel that there is a place to be thought that doesn't necessarily based on a professional basis, that may be the complete problem with the rest of the group that he is divided in nature, that is a question of values, and sometimes I find it difficult to see where this value should be placed. Then I still mention Urrannus, which I can't vote with a suggestion to activate. I'm going to see how the discussion is about the whole proposal, but in view of the fact that Urrafraf is under the energy response category, I'm having a very difficult time with this proposal. I'd be much easier with her right away if he wasn't in there after studying a few other assets that are in the energy company. It also has to be said that, as it is, there are quite a number of things that are opposed and that, of course, certainly calms me deeply about this proposal, but I still have a problem that I don't realize where we're going to get to the political values, if we can call it that way. In this discussion, there is always a danger of becoming involved in this doctrine, who has started breaking laws or something similar. That discussion is very boring, and it is boring that we need it. I remember the last time we were discussing a case related to a frame plan, I thought most of all to save a frame plan, I looked at it that way, so that the process could at least continue at peace, even if people do not like specific activation options. I'm still that conviction. I think it's crucial that the process is settled because if it's not, it ends in the same bite, the tough talk, and we ended up in the season. The discussion will never be very professional, and it will be very quickly indistinguishable, and it does not make much sense to the council, but, as it is, that is something that I now think most members of Congress allow themselves to worry about once in a while, although not every second, it would be hard to get something to worry about it and would take a lot of space in the lives of each senator. When I first saw that suggestion, I have to admit, I don't really want to celebrate. However, I still like to see her come out, even when she's only on committees and comments. I have to say, though, that I don't know how to figure it out. A minister sees for himself the continuation of the case, whether or not they're expecting the matter to end at this council. As always, it's unclear how to establish priorities now, the Council is not more organized than, unfortunately, but I'm at least not to me what men will do to this matter at this council. That's a short time left. I suppose the committee, whatever the committee may be, will need time to review the situation. There are, however, some more things to discuss, than last time, we were discussing adjustments. Business committees that weren't so extensive. I don't see how this will work out for the duration of the council. Another particular thing I'd like to mention is that already there's the same disagreement that came up last time, which is on which subject to go. It matters. This is significant because the committee's projects are not the same. As shown in the talk of the Lord, the Supreme One. Environment Minister, it can be found on the Generals web, last discussed the matter. The employment committee on the grounds of moving the benefits from a waiting party to a novelty party, no protection party. It was seen as a fixed business committee at the time according to the then state of the world's highest level. Minister, but not according to a sledgehammer. The head of the pro board. Then the speech was different. The debate was about to go straight into the fact that it was something they had wanted at their time during the last term, now they were going to punch it through because that's how the politicians work. It's a boring way of speaking. And we'll all be able to understand. So there was not even a harmony among the majority of the parties on why people wanted the matter to go to that committee. True, some had the view that the matter was simply a professional health committee, and I believe that that this view is still there, in view of the fact that the matter is to be addressed. The pro committee again. I don't agree with you at all. The case is clearly in place on the environment and transport committee. I don't think that's a question. If there was just one reason to put the case there, it's the fact that there's also been a series of priming options, along with a novel and a waiting party, but a lot more to protect. If we want to take a bite at what committee this is to go on to determine if there are advantages in a protection or innovation party, then the environmental and transport committees must be more emphasised if there are valid reasons. True, I feel that this is simply part of an environment and transportation committee, and then I consider it from the brief speech of a respectable president of the time we were last arguing on this matter. There's also another reason why I'm afraid that I'm going to be able to see in this room one of the very few advantages I've considered some sense of intelligence among those listed in the entire proposal. I've come to this matter almost exclusively in the treatment of the council in the past period of the election, i.e. with everything that was involved in the treatment of the problem. The head of the pro board in his day. The very fact that man's intention is to activate Uryrafras is, in fact, the best thing to say about my belief in the process. Then I'm not suggesting that in some way I'm going to try to stand in the way of it or make some adjustments, that doesn't exist on my part or anyone else, so I know at the High Council, but I think it's worth calling it because we must consider the process and the results somehow within what you call the frame of reality. I wouldn't have thought that there would be an option at first. Certainly one has noticed that there is not much touristism there, it was not the last time I saw him, nor the last, but it can change and turn away from a natural bulb that no one can think of to activate. Of course, it is difficult to reason with such views that if possible, in a professional process, it is successful, and in doing so the problem is. That's my problem with this suggestion. That's exactly where it is. This does not involve any criticism of professionalism. On the contrary, this is a problem because professionalism makes these views more difficult, so I have a problem with this. At the same time as I've published, I feel very important that the process will have some reconciliation and that a frame plan will remain the way we use to handle it. What are some of the advantages of this consideration? There are a number of advantages. Just after reviewing the Uryrofos, Holtization, Indomainisation, and Cavitation when we last talked about this, I believe there are much more advantages here, which must also merit comparable observations so that we know that the results are in harmony with the political vision we have at the aim of a frame plan. This is not to challenge professionalism behind a frame plan. It's just that we're doing our part and we're going to do it political, because that's what we're supposed to do here. We cannot refuse that role. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u138	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, first of all, thanking him for a very good speech, and I wholeheartedly agree with him when it comes to the Urrandir. I think that any person who would go there and examine that natural phenomenon, which is so close to us here in the capital area, 45 to50 minutes of driving to the falls, would reach the same conclusion, or very many at least, and not time to lose this natural phenomenon, this waterfall, and sacrifice it for some such activation. I'd like to ask because of what. A senator believes that it is natural for such decision - making, which is the suggestion for the discussion, to come to a political evaluation that, of course, can be based on aesthetics; it is based only on the value of the natural phenomenon itself, whether. A senator has similarly examined every emerging natural phenomenon designed to become a novelty class. And whether he feels that it is not natural to make comparable assessments before making a decision to enter a novelty party. Is it not a matter of man's going to the Cradle, going up to the Whirlrust, and going up to the waters that are spoken of unity, examining the unsettled depths that are lost, so that men are absolutely clear about it, those who make these decisions, what is at stake?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u139	A respectable president. The answer to the question of whether I have personally considered all the other advantages or parts of them is no, unfortunately. I see a lot of places I'd like now to look at to put on this particular food. Because when I examined it at the time, I started with it, I did a lot of looking up maps and trying to see it out of the air, trying to get some sense of these areas, and, of course, read the data of the 2nd-to-step program. They gave you some expression of the area. It is never like coming to the area yourself and seeing it. When I first saw Uryrofos for the first time, I've seen him before because I didn't live very far away from there, but I had somehow not realized that this was the waterfall that men were really talking about applying, I thought it was a ridiculous idea as soon as I saw her. And then I've come across another place where I don't care as much because I don't have the same pearl there, and not everything, not every squarer of the country, so that it can't be activated, as beautiful as the land is, and all that. I mean, I'm in favor of basically water strike activation, just not always, and not at any time, and not just from professional viewpoints because they come to that conclusion by Urrass, at least at this time. And then you don't know what happens after that. At least I don't see what will be the next steps after the case is agreed, if we assume that it will be approved at the General, but there will be a process to accept this aesthetic assessment. I wondered if it would be possible if we could rewind time or create a new process. I wondered if it would be possible to give the Senate, the councilman, or the public a chance to create some kind of process where people could vote for these inducers from the time they had seen them. I wondered what it would look like. [[The president calls.]] I think, I suspect, in the light of the Uryr deduction, that it would look different. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. Senator, I think it's amazing that someone who looks at the Uryrofos wants to activate it. I think it's crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u140	A respectable president. I think it's a key figure. I am notlittled by the professional work involved in the work and work of the project; but the second is to come to the site and see what the decision involves. I think it's really important. I think it is an opportunity for the council to do this kind of work, it would be desirable for those who operate on these matters, in this case of the employment committee, and, of course, the Council's Environment Committee, it says itself, to have these matters discussed in their own fields. It is painful to think that a person might make decisions without having learned exactly what to do. Take, for example, the rock age, in itself, the activation is not a monumental piece of work based on the basic descriptions. They're not making new lagoons, they're making tunnels from a pre-existing neckstone, and we're talking about a station house that could possibly lie super well inside a landscape, like many of the activations that we already have. Of course, it's just the environment, what leads to this, what construction is needed to achieve this, what construction is needed to remove the electricity from this place that really matters? In this context, there are areas such as the current debate on Theist's smoke and Back now where people are coming behind them and need to change the proposals of the project and are distressed by the law's having to reexamine them. It's always the same. It's always after, and you've been changing something. It is as if a process cannot be respected. There is hope, therefore, that this is a matter of caution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u141	A respectable president. I think it sounds to others, when I say it, as it sounded to me at the time when I heard people talk about Crumbish's activation. I remember that I was not so interested in the case at the time, but I noticed that people who had gone there were generally opposed to the activation. Notice that people who had real experience in being there were opposed to the activation. I noticed. Perhaps a person would assume that there is a link between people who are interested in going to land and especially into the central highlands to examine nature that would then appreciate nature far beyond hydropowers or any kind of activation. That's why I think it might be an interesting experiment if it's realistic, which I really doubt it is, that all members of the council who are involved in it and look at these areas. I think if that happened then it would have a big impact on the vote. Then I think our role here, which is in itself, when it all comes down to rejecting this or accepting, not changing it or molding it, I think it would have a major impact on their decision-making. I think they'd probably be, I think, more content to take more into the game that aesthetic viewpoint. Of course, this takes an enormous amount of time, and this requires that those who make such decisions examine all these places. That's a lot of places. I think it's worth wondering because I'm taking it much more seriously now, because I hear a lot more about what people were saying about Crumbian activation, such as that. When it's low. A senator has asked that question. Have people seen these places? Have people been there and seen what it is to decide? I think the answer is more often than you feel comfortable: Of course, there is something that everyone should agree that if it is possible, it would be worth fixing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u142	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. The Environment Minister here proposes a proposal for the resolution of a national protection and energy prevention programme based on law No. 48/2011, about a protection and energy efficiency programme. As for these and such laws, I'm going to make a few words. For one thing, I'd like to say that with the sentence of this bill, which was successful in following through the General Assembly and making it possible for the law to cooperate between all groups that were then appointed by the Allied Council, members of the Parliament. The law was accepted after much consultation and good work by representatives of all categories and agreed together. It was a remarkable conclusion. I've always felt that as a result, we should be able to work on that law in a professional way, which, as it turns out, leads to a conquistador. Then it is in the hands of the Generals to discuss this strategy with two discussions, to work on a review committee, to put in a review, make comments, or make comments, etc. The 2011 laws, the protection and energy efficiency legislation, take into account the Norwegian law that had been in force for a long time. However, we changed a number of factors, such as, if I recall, to have entered the law that, at least every four years, a minister for the General Assembly will submit a strategy, protection and energy efficiency proposal for territory. I remember the original bill was said every four years. This was changed to the conduct of the General Assembly. I say this, a respectable president, because I had the hope that this would be part of a group at the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders on how to proceed with the proposal to the General Assembly. It is clear to me that at the time of the proposal, she can make changes in the terms of the Generals. The General Assembly is the final payment on a frame plan. Senators can make change proposals and a greater part of the Generals will be in charge in the end. This process is to be settled, but it has not always been that way. I'm referring to a controversy that occurred here last when things were taken after a quick treatment, and then there was a lot of debate over the process. I can't hear there's any criticism now. The results presented here, in this large and large final report of Project 3, the preparation of the 2013 2013 •2017 Protection and Energy efficiency programme, are based on the law, even though there are a number of items to be spoken of, as I did in a short answer to the Supreme Court. Ministers when she moved the matter earlier today, concerning the orders of task groups 3 and 4. I have no warm wish, a respectable president, but I feel at home with my job, but of course there may be disagreements about how to use it, what to be protected, and what to wait. There's nothing unnatural about that. Finally, however, more of the generals are in charge. I hope that it can continue to exist, so people try to reason with themselves. Laws are not very old, they are only five years old, but the process, as in this excellent proposal, can be traced back to 1971 when the laws on nature protection were first adopted. It is then passed through the process, from phase 1 of 1999-◯2003. In 1999 a project manager was appointed and passed through it. The project administration developed methodology and work rules based on the proposed professional groups, which went over the priming and fitting, and gave results to the project management. As a result, the project management won the results of the professional groups, and this continued to lead to that. Then, in the first part of the second stragment of a 2004-2007 Framework Framework Programme further research on food and continuation in the hands of a three - man projector in which Sveinn Sveinbjörn Björnsson, a former university driver, led them to work. That work continued to be done, and it was traced very well until the May 2007 Declaration of Independence and Conspiracy, following the total election. It stated that a frame plan should be completed. In September 2007, a project management took over which, if I recall correctly, would be the supreme. Secretary of the trade, Össur Skarphéðinsson, ordered. She was supposed to be leading the work to completion by the end of 2009. Then came the second project management of the 2nd class, which ended at the beginning of July 2011 and was under the arduous rule of Svanfred Jónasdóttir's daughter, former general, and mayor of the town in Davígur. Finally, in 2011, a law on protection and energy efficiency was adopted, and by that law it has been established ever since. But I restate on the fact that there was a disagreement and a huge debate at the World Council on the proposal that came to my attention a year ago. I want to take this opportunity to ask the highest. Minister of the environment to do that. These laws are now five years old, and there is considerable experience in them. In my opinion, there have been some things that need to be improved and to make lines clearer in order to eliminate debates and disagreements about methodology. That's why I'm asking the highest. Environment Minister, who may be able to answer me shortly afterwards: Has not there been a talk at the Environment Ministry to appoint a transnational group with representatives of stakeholders, protection, and others to review the laws in the light of experience? Can we not sit down and agree on the changes needed to take place that I believe need to do in the light of experience and try to establish a law that would once again establish a parapolitic agreement? The rules of rules must be clear. The law needs to be clear enough that humans cannot interpret it out and south. That's what I even wanted. ask questions in the ten minutes I have to discuss this matter. I don't intend to go to the proposals of a projection on what is organized into a energy response party, what's arranged for a waiting party and each member of a reservation for this time. If the case comes to a professional committee I'm sitting in, the case will be interrupted and through. Of course, in the large case presented at this moment in special circumstances at the Council, where the election has been announced in one and a half months, you ask yourself, " Can these data be won? ' I think it's from work that the project management is right, where people can express themselves about the changes the Minister chooses to make, but now the minister is taking the suggestions directly, exactly as they come from the Commission, and they're going to do it. That's in accordance with the law. It's allowed. That's why this is so early for the Generals. A respectable president. I'll have to question whether we can win this thing at the short time the Council is scheduled for this fall, because if I remember correctly, it is 29 now this month, September, that is to break up Congress and men to prepare elections. [[The president calls.]] It's none of my business then to discuss this case, but I'll discuss it now and I'd like to bring it in. I reiterate my question to the highest. A minister I would like to find the answer to: Is it not reasonable to review the law with regard to experience? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u143	Mr. President. I'm not really going to extend this discussion, but I feel compelled to come up here because I didn't have time to go back before. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who claimed that I had mentioned the absence of a legal process. I didn't do that at all. It's totally a legal process. What I was rolling up in my answers, both at the highest. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur was what our responsibility as politicians was already on the project on the activations of the lower part of During the Year that uncertainty about the wild salmon population cannot be eliminated. What, then, is our political responsibility, especially in view of the situation in which we live? There is a value for environmental assessment, certainly an old environmental assessment that should be known to re-evaluate, but there is nothing to say that there is a need to revise and file a lawsuit with the Environmental and Resource Decision Committee. Then I wonder, in the light of what has been observed here, that it is not normal to complete a discussion on this matter at the level of the administration, but where should the matter be discussed? I think it's important to go. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson hears what I have to say because he previously claimed that I had spoken about the absence of a legal process. I never said that, but I was wondering how we're going to handle things that can't be solved at this level of administration. I think it gives me a lot to think about when politicians get to know each other. Councilmen and the highest. for example, a adviser will refer to this particular prescription for the salmon. Then I feel that it is important that we answer where to address this matter, especially when environmental assessment is in effect. This should be discussed in detail at the council scene, for here we have a specific device, the project management has done their job, there is no comment on it. They flaunt it and point it out, saying, "This is something we can't settle. " We'll take it seriously. However, it is perfectly reasonable to ask: " Where will we look at this matter in view of the value of environmental assessment? There's nothing to do with environmental assessment. Where, then, will we address this matter? Do we not have to answer that question? I mention it as well, and it may be otherwise, that here is suggested that thelastial rock party be placed. I didn't have time to discuss it with the highest. A minister before, but she'll probably be up here at the end of the discussion. Now it's got the highest. As noted, a minister begins to work on a central national park. How's the top count? So, a minister suggests that this proposal combines with existing work? I know it's the highest. A minister has not taken a stand to see if he is a member of a central national park. I'm a very close member of a central nation park. We have made a suggestion here at the council. In fact, I think it would be a very positive step to accept such a proposal. What, though, if at all? Ministers have come to believe that this is a national park. This work is now taking place. So, at the same time, should we decide to put this activation into a group of innovations, and how does that compare with that work? This is something I also feel like I have to talk to you about at the council. I think it's kind of interesting to listen to what's happened. Councilmen, some of whom, discuss the fact that there is a suggestion that should not be discussed. I think there's a misunderstanding about the frame plan. I think that's a misunderstanding about the role of politicians. Of course it must be our part. No one is reducing anything from the professional value of the work involved. Not a man has done it here today. However, it is this way in the law that we are about to take the matter to heart, what we are prepared to make our suggestion in short terms, for it is, of course, approved by the council, which in the end is relevant to this matter. It is the council that is responsible for the payment and minister responsible for the proposal. That is why I feel that, in the process of this matter at the council, we can answer these questions. Will the council be able to say anything about the failure of the European Commission until there is uncertainty about wild salmon stocks? Or is it a minister who can make such a decision and say: Well, there will be no permit? Is it something that the council can bind the executive's hands with? I'm not sure, Mr. President. I think it's important that all these processes lie in the way. The same can be said of our attitude, for it is also important that we, along with this work, take a stand here at the General meeting whether we want to go to a central national park or not. It is easy to do so in view of the fact that this proposal is available and has received a very positive report. Then it is easy to take a stand on the suggestion and see if there is a feeling that the rock - massing process is within such a park, based on the evidence that has so far been exposed to the landscape. We know this. This has been discussed many times here. Do we feel that it is dwelling within such a park, or are we somehow reducing its potential? Mr. President. These are the questions. I regret that this is the subject of my being reducing the legal value of this work. I have not, either in reply or in speech. On the other hand, if I do, I'm amazed. Congress officials do not trust to have a material discussion about the proposal, for this is why we are here, part of the legislation that the minister gives a recommendation and the council will take sides with it, that is, we can discuss the matter materially, not merely whether the form has been fulfilled or not. That's not what I'm talking about. However, I would like us to take a materialistic stand and, of course, expect all these factors to be considered in the work of the committee, which will eventually be discussed. There are two natural suggestions for handling the matter. I'd like to finally remind you, Mr. President that this fine proposal was last sent to the house. Work committees on the grounds that it was about practical use, i.e. There was one suggestion for the use that was a whale activation, but in the past, it is decided that the resource use should be covered by a professional committee. It also specified that the environment and transport committee should deal with protection. There are quite a number of suggestions to protect various areas and initiatives. So I'm quite out of the question, Mr. President, what kind of logic is the source of the case, I think it's rather a subject of interest, but we can take that discussion when we vote on these suggestions. Other than that, I hope that the discussion in the Council of Churches will focus on the subject and will focus on how we can clearly examine the precise ways in which we see the events ahead in the event that this proposal is adopted at the Council, how we see the squares ahead of what has been pointed out here, the real issues we must, of course, take a political responsibility, whether it's the wild salmon stock, the highland park, or any other thing. Under that responsibility, we will never be able to shoot ourselves, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and only wants to add to the fact that what I had left and wrote after her presentation was that she asked the highest. Ministers to how she was going to react and defend these wild salmon in the lower part of the blue, how she was going to respond to the opinions and suggestions she received from these experts. That's what I made comments to, since the minister is doing this in a legal process. I also made a comment to that question. A senator felt that there were no means of success after this resolution at the General Assembly. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to see if we do not agree with these experts that environmental assessment will be carried out, and this will be taken into place, followed by the permit. It was very simple what has been done, whether these wild salmon populations should be considered on the environmental assessment or in other environmental evaluations prepared. I'm asking why. A senator: Do we not agree that this consideration is at home?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u145	Mr. President. So I'll have a chance to explain my case before then. A senator, I don't make any remarks about the highest. Ministers submit a proposal to the Commission and thereby follow a legal procedure. That wasn't my point. But the highest. Ministers are responsible for more than a frame plan. She is responsible for her entire environmental problem, with biodiversity being involved. V.E.G. Thus, a minister must pause at this assessment of the experts that there is considerable uncertainty about the survival of the wild salmon stock. Then I asked the highest. Minister of the above: What alternative but a frame plan can be used? Hv. A senator brings up an answer to me, because this did not necessarily appear in the highest reply. Minister of the past, that environmental assessment can be performed. But as I studied in my speech, the environmental assessment of already being carried out, that is, of course, in a lawsuit, as presented here, is in the Commission of Environment and Resources. However, the environmental assessment, though available, does not involve any decision. It just means an assessment of the circumstances. So the only remaining decision is the execution permit. That's where we're at. A senator agrees. There are, of course, some data that would be available to refuse to allow the application to be allowed. That is why I ask: What is our political responsibility? Our political responsibilities as members of Congress and the Supreme Court. Minister who is responsible for the overall case of the Environment Committee, not just a framework plan, but a protection of biodiversity in this country. What is our political responsibility? Are we going to tie the company's hands to the future - if we don't have data that will destroy the uncertainty of the wild salmon population, then implementation will not be granted? In my speech, I simply called for this career to be clear. We are faced with the fact that we are to make a decision, that we do not know the consequences of it. Are we going to say, "Hey, we'll just turn it over to the future, or are there any other opportunities to be used by the Commission or the legislators according to the incident? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u146	A respectable president. The process is very clear. It is the environmental evaluations the framework is based on, and this proposal is given. Of course, we can't bind the executives' hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u147	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u148	No, we agree that the natural process is that the environmental assessment is the next level, then the license party comes. We need to trust someone other than us. There are professionals I trust to discuss these matters, as I quoted, and rural governments can intervene and protect areas with neighborhood protection, and there are various ways. We build our decision here, our political decision, and we are responsible for it, on the basis of environmental assessment programmes, and then the process remains, the environmental assessment of action and the license of the Member States. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u149	Mr. President. This may lead to what we have. A senator disagrees. We have a process, the environmental assessments are not making any decisions, it is only shown that the danger is and what the danger is not. It should then be used, a new environmental assessment, which we know nothing about. Then a license is issued. [[Up front.]] We cannot bind the hand of the one giving the permission. Then the time will come. A senator does not agree, that is our responsibility and responsibility. A minister who is not only an elected agent but also an officer with a specific field of work, who is responsible not only for following the legal procedures of a framework but also for protecting biodiversity. I feel that as members of Congress and elected agents, we need to take it seriously when it comes to showing that this uncertainty exists. We need to make a decision with our eyes that we are willing to take the risk of the uncertainty, that we are just going to put that responsibility into practice. A senator said that there is someone else who can only take that responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u150	Mr. President. Here we are talking about a matter that we've been arguing over for years. There have been large debates at the council, and opinions have changed. Hv. In his talk, a senator tore up the need to go to the committee and take a good look. These are the issues the council has considered in terms of depth, i.e. Congress proposals and other matters that have come here for the council. They have all gone through very thorough opinions. The council is about to depart soon. My question to why. The senator's opinion is this: Does it feel that there is a basis for taking such a difficult matter and putting it down during this council? I'd think it would be a good idea. Of all the members of the council here, the senator was the chief officer. It's possible that there's a good idea for everyone to agree to this proposal. I don't think there's any chance that this will go through the council if you're going to start doing that. I think so. I wondered: " Would the council be doing their job if it took care of it fairly fast in just a few days without hurting it as we have always done with these controversial issues? ' What's the stand? The senator's question: Does it feel that there is a possibility that the matter could be resolved at this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u151	Mr. President. I understand the will of the highest. Minister to wish to make a recommendation for this case, but of course I have pointed out at the council here that there is a very short period of time, approximately ten meetings days, nine meetings days according to a new schedule. A president, who is not a long time compared to all the matters we will discuss at the council, to form a basic change in the social security system for older citizens, who are also under intense pressure to receive this consideration. All I'm pointing out is that the reviews point out to us, political agents, to a large question that the task management says correctly: This will not be settled at this level of government. What are we going to do as political representatives responsible for the nature of our country, since this is an irreversible decision? It is so that these decisions are irreversible, especially in those with the Neo class. It is in itself possible to return with political decisions later on. However, once activated it is difficult to turn back. Then I'd like to ask: What kind of situation is what's going on with us senators, ask us to make decisions, for example. for the activation in the lower part of Tubes, where it has been said: There is an enormous uncertainty about the future of the wild salmon stock in Iceland. The answer to this discussion is: We just have to push the responsibility somewhere else. We must put this to another party, for the Council is not going to take responsibility for this decision. Then I wonder, because of it. A senator asks if there is a time, if there is a time to be careful about such a matter as irreversible decisions. And then I remind you how important it is that we also have someone to shoot such a decision to the nation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u152	Mr. President. That was a masterly answer. I asked you a simple question. A senator and she raced into the ice like an Olympic record holder in skates, even in art skates. I think she brought me more questions than I managed to plant in my answer, but that's okay. I was just wondering if my good friends in VG had decided to put this Senate resolution on. It would be a benefit, but certain defects too. I have serious doubts that it is possible to defend it through the council during the last few days without carefully examining it. But I'm not going to reiterate my question or torture my good companion in VG anything more on this matter. Hv. A senator, who is very understanding, as I know from close cooperation with her, and I also know how she feels about forgiving those who have even in the last few days become offended by their words, said here, Mr. President, that she understood well that a minister wanted to make this matter clear. But are we supposed to sit here just so some Ministers can get things through that may not be possible? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to get into a campaign. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I express my love for VG. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u153	Mr. President. I'm just gonna tell you right away that I'm gonna forgive you. A senator of all his wrongdoing, and I'm going to stop calling him '-and-more. With regard to the question, the answer is simple: There is only a very short period of time. There are a lot of big cases up there. We cannot resolve all these matters. That's absolutely clear, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u154	A respectable president. I planned a similar psalm. The night is young, as is said to say, and this meeting may stand until midnight, according to Congress. But it remains that I do not see enough time for the remainder of this council, at any rate, in accordance with the current strategy, to complete this matter. Then I wonder because I won't be here at the next assembly, nor will I. 6th. s.. So we were just talking about if the senators had actually seen the points involved, it might affect their opinion. We were particularly discussing Uryrofos, which we both care about. But I wondered, if there were enough time to go, if we were starting a council like we should be doing, how could this all-time, a show that is not professional in any way because as I have said before, you see Urrass, and you think it's crazy that someone wants to activate it. In itself, I don't have a stronger argument than that, I just think it's crazy to activate it. I think the only way that members of the Parliament can go out in that psalm is by experiencing the area in some way. Yes, it is possible to examine aerial images, reports, articles, and multicolored graves, but it is hardly possible that the entire body of Congress would see the place itself, even all the committees, in order to draw such conclusions simply because of the number of suggestions or activations, unless it was limited to those in the colony party. I wondered, " Can I give a message for the next council and the next election period according to the short time we have on how the senators can come to this most beautiful feature, provided we have time that we obviously do not have? ' I'm asking because I don't think we have time to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u155	Mr. President. As a matter of fact, I think there may also be talk of the professional aesthetic evaluations, for it is, of course, that a certain professional judgment of aesthetics is being made by talking about landscape laws and other aspects of the report of a project management. It is an attempt to see where we have a particular landscape structure that is unorthodox and that is not disturbing a spectacular experience. And, of course, that food has changed. At one time, the Icelanders considered the spores to be the most beautiful and productive cloven, since they then linked the beauty to the usefulness of a perfectly natural experience. Then this beautiful experience of turning more about the elevated things begins to be appreciated in increasing numbers like Fallos, or Gold Falls, because they represent in some way the lofty in aesthetic sense. Of course, it changes all sides of the opinion to get to know and experience places. Since Iceland is traveling more throughout the country and living in the country in another way, all the environment has been transformed. That is why it is so important that people give exactly the time they needed. A senator is talking about to experience and see his land. It's different to read a report on a waterfall than to watch a waterfall like a dog. A senator mentions Uryrafs. It is certainly an effort to evaluate a certainesthetics in a report by a project manager, but this is not a substitute for the problem. Councilmen study the matter with their own experience and try to take an informed view of the fine - minded assessment set out there and try to explain. What matters in this too is the context. We in Iceland have a relatively large percentage of our country unmoved, as we have discussed, that is the central nation park that I care about to become a reality, and that is something of value in itself. [[The president calls.]] This is different from most other European countries where land is divided into lost squares.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u156	A respectable president. I'm particularly interested in this because I don't see an opportunity to participate in the vote on this matter, unless it reaches a vote for this council that we agree that is highly unlikely and certainly not possible if people are going to consider these benefits of some serious committee. It is simply not enough time to do so during the short time we have. Then I wondered, as I am a prospective civilian, a democratian, with a warning that I do not believe that politicians in general are going to make a part of national pay just because they have a hard time making decisions for themselves or having trouble convincing their colleagues. I feel that the initiative is to come from the nation. On the other hand, we saw it, for example. And I think it would be very likely if there was an interest among the public in coming to the decision-making process, then I wondered if it could be placed at this stage or if a frame plan has reached a point where it cannot be taken. I think of it as a possibility, it's not something that I'm going to suggest for this council because we obviously want to have a process that makes sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u157	Mr. President. This was under way in the Board of Directors. In effect, the proposals here have been made opening up the possibility of requiring a national bill of certain interpretations. A Ramma plan is, of course, a contingency. The reason why I have felt it was important for the public to require national pay, for example. The distinct aspects of the framework or of a nature protection program are that these are programs based on the fact that we make certain irreversible decisions for the nation of our country. I don't find anything unnatural about what is opening up in these proposals, which, unfortunately, did not fully agree, that legislation on the basis of which Congress is to be held that the public can demand a national fee for them. I don't think it's unnatural for the evolution that we want to give more power to the people of the country. It's, for example. can do so in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u158	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Environment Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir for offering a proposal for a synopsis on a national protection and energy-efficient strategy. It suggests that from the fact that a specialised group, a group on the framework that we have called in daily speech, presented it, but based on it it would ensure that the implementation of land areas for activation would be based on the long-term results and the overall basis of interest assessments that would take into account the protection of nature and cultural memory, economic benefits, and the benefit of different national resources as well as their values for the same benefits of these same quality, with sustainable development being guided. I think after the long discussion that took place at the spring Summit on a frame plan there are two issues in the discussion here today. I think there's a reason to thank that the tone of this discussion is quite different, and I wondered if we can't end this case in the short time that remains. I think if the council intends to comply with the laws that have been given on these projects, then now is the opportunity. I'm impressed that there is no adjustment to the Commission's proposal, although there are certainly a lot of opinions here. Probably this would look different if every senator in this hall would make a suggestion so that to get together about the matter, I think we need, as I said in our discussions, to trust those who are experts. Here are four groups of experts who have discussed different subjects and, as I say, although I do not agree with everything that is presented here, I believe that the only way we can achieve some results and can continue the journey is by the council trying to complete this matter. This will not be different from the fact that we do not open it, as we have discussed in this discussion. You can't trace the matter, take some factors out, and try to push it through in that way. I think there must be agreement to trust the experts, to trust those who have been selected to guide us in making right decisions. This will help us to achieve a solidarity on the basis of national protection and energy efficiency. There's been talk of salmon in Þjórtur that we talked about so much this spring. This is the most studied salmon stock in the world. The environmental assessment programme will include further assessments of the strains, chemicals and other topics that we have discussed many times before. We're talking about 12 initiatives in a South American energy efficiency category of 17. The waiting party has 37, 20 of which are in Southland and Smokeynes. In my district, there's a lot of options. I have no idea that all these benefits will finally be used, but here they are arranged, and I'm sure this is a good job. I'm going to be with the Minister on this matter, hoping we'll be on the pro board, that we can go over there and finish it by the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u159	A respectable president. We'll talk to the highest bid. Environment and resource minister on the protection and energy use of land areas, framework, but according to the President's decision, a framework for the Environment Minister and the Parliament will hear that issues are protected under the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee. Therefore, I would like to begin my speech by saying that this matter of the Environment and Transport Committee belongs, and I would like to say, "I'm disappointed in the Supreme Court." The minister should then back up his indicators or proposal to the employment committee by stating that there was more knowledge of a frame plan than on the Environment and Transport Committee, which I find to be of the most remarkable contrast to the fact that environmental ministers are to be listed here before the General Assembly after the environmental and transport committee has led each other to the outcome of the case under the Supreme Court. Environment Minister. The Committee is composed of both former environmental ministers and former industrial ministers, both of whom have worked on these matters and have been very familiar. I expect the highest. A minister will not contradict me in this regard. I'd like to come on a few things. Here, we have only discussed the issues that depend on the time we have at the council in order to discuss this subject. I think it's clear to everyone that he's very tight. There's a big case underneath here. However, it should be noted that at the height it is good to know that it is positive. Ministers stick to their appointed time frames. In particular, I would like to commend the project management of the 3rd-step program for keeping your schedule and your highest level of time. Minister for always speaking the matter of the project and the work there has been done. This has been important when this work has been removed from various sources. I would like to mention the fact that here we are talking about an enormously important project. We're talking about tools, a respectable president, a good tool that clearly provides an important conclusion. However, the instrument is also the work of men, and we made it in the General Assembly, with all agreed votes, and it is evident from this product of Article 3 of the framework design that tools are capable of providing a much more powerful vision for the protection party, because we are talking about large lakes that have been under discussion and for a discussion with naturalists for many decades. We're not only talking about the glacier floors of Skafurdur, the Shiver River, and Skaftá, we're also talking about the protection of an area that has been taught by the Norwegian Age Institute and, later, the Classical Institute for Special Promination and has been taught at times by Þjórður, and the enlargement of the peaceland in Þjótururður, which I know at the highest level. Minister knows well. All these factors should especially be welcomed, i.e. ... oftheprecautions. Then there's something thought - provoking, i.e. how a frame plan applies to other decision-making processes and other ongoing discussions that have been going on in the field of nature protection over the past few years. Then, first of all, I want to mention the proposal that both Urras reactivation and Holta activation go to a novelty party while talking about the reality that we have recently moved the environmental rights to the natural protection law in Iceland, which makes it very clear that nature should enjoy the doubt in the face of scientific uncertainty. In the face of scientific uncertainty, nature should enjoy the doubt. This is legalized in the Precautionary Regulation, which has been adopted in Icelandic legislation with the approved protection laws of nature, No. 60/2013. This rule is especially appropriate when it comes to a frame plan in which scientific uncertainty is particularly prevalent. We have an enormous number of energy strengths below, including to those mentioned above, but also to the energy initiatives that have been involved in geo-engineering, where there is great uncertainty about their effect and their insecurities of rightfully using the support of the precaution and new natural protection laws under the framework procedures, argue that there are far more activation ideas at home than in their innovation by that argument. The other is how a Framework Programme is referred to as to other plans that are now being developed, such as the plans or idea of a central national park, as well as the coverage of a series of developer ideas that live within the central nation line. It is thought - provoking, and I especially want to rejoice that this discussion has been taken in part, but it also indicates disappointments over both the highest. Ministers and senators have been struggling to discuss this reality, i.e. how all these subjects will be referred to. It has also been discussed the fact how much a decision it takes to put activation into a category of innovations because it is quite binding because the group, that we need to think about, is an obligation to set the results of a structured program. Thus, the framework will take over the traditional organizational authority of the rural communities. A rural society that, in turn, intends to implement the implementation of environmental assessment will still have the area on its own as an energy-efficiency zone. The decision we make here is almost a administrative decision because it has to do with the authority of the rural community to make decisions on land. This is a thought - provoking point. Also, I'd like to say, and there's just something for us to consider, because the general time works with protection reasons, that while laws on the frame plan are not old, they still reflect the thought that both water and earth are in the shallow areas to use and prove the burden, it is more likely to protect those who want to use it than those who want to use it. It should, in my opinion, turn the other way around. I'd also like to mention it -- because I'm not suggesting that the Law on Framework be opened - which I think is an obvious experience, both for the one being present and also for the Minister who now recommends this proposal, that it must simplify the peace-explanatory process on the basis of a framework. It cannot be said that the peace process of those who fall into a protective party is so tenacious as to be seen, that it takes this terrible time for each one. It must be that once the council has established a reservation, the sites are protected from energy efficiency. Then there is the possibility of going on traditional forms of peace by means of other protective measures and other forms of protection for the area, something that we must resolve in due time. A respectable president. It's not a long talk period that you have to discuss on such a big, important subject, but I've tried to kill several of the factors I consider to be in this discussion and, of course, hope that the subject will go to the committee that is most normal according to the Convention in terms of its existence, i.e. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u160	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you. Councilmen for the good, moderation, and material discussion of this controversial issue. The fact that I make this motion unchanged is not least because I feel that I have no more knowledge or knowledge than any professional person who has come to this work, even though some individual decisions can be debated. I don't think there is anyone here, either in the council hall or in the far and wide of the country that doesn't have a opinion of any advantages, whether for protection or activation. I'd like to read from a book called World in Ari Trausti Guðmundsson's case in focus. The chapter is called ◯Moft use and sufficient protection, which is exactly what we're dealing with here. It says: ▪ The verbs of nature and nature protection must be solved by compromise. Ideas about not using some of the basic resources in this country are unrealistic. With the term self-sustaining, we don't push nature out of the table and just adopt nature protection. On the contrary. We will not stop catching fish, cultivating the ground, digging up gravel, or making food from the white gold of the land, hot and cold water. The requirements of the useers are simple but difficult to put on. It should be carried out so that future generations will possess the resources that are least affected after our day. This is exactly what happened. paritaprevir Young Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir mentioned this matter in an opening discussion. When the main discussion took place in this conference hall less than two years ago, most people spoke to me and were protesting to agree to make the process their own. At that time, it seemed to be a violation of the process that then took place. I was determined from my first days at the Ministry to try to work well with the project management, get information - you don't run the project but you can get information about how work works. I was totally trying my best to let this process go and these laws go their separate ways. So I'm proud to stand here and measure for a synonym, for this was the end of the process. I repeat, of course, that many political questions arise, and people have their opinions - natural - on what might be done better. A senator named The Devil. I've said it from this chair before, and I can repeat it that, from the environmental point of view, I believe a rock's very practical. Since there are dunes and activations, there will not be great signs there and virtually none. On the other hand, because of its approach to the central highlands, humans may object to the rise of a wave. There's a point of view, but from the clear environmental point of view, I would even classify rock wave activation as one of the best, and I would not hesitate to say that I would prefer it over the Urcratic activation. I'm not going to talk here about specific priming options. I've put this on the project management that later ordered the professional groups. Now it's in here at the General Assembly. That's usually the end of the work, it ends here. Of course, many have talked about being members of Congress who are supposed to make decisions, and I agree with them. I realize that time is getting better, I realize that. Still, this schedule has been completely timed, and even the project management made proposals for me on three or four days'notice. But on September 1, it was timed out that I would have it considered, could have a little more time, so put it here into a council after reading it over. The schedule was so that if I made changes, I would at last recommend here 11, 11, which I thought was a fun day because it is the peaceful day of World War I. Because I had such a great sense of trying to go through this matter in a measure of peace. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir My Ásmundur Friðriksson said that my desire is the means of finishing this. My argument is that this is exactly the same motion as was suggested here in March; it has not changed. She hasn't changed much. Therefore, members of Congress have had six months. They know exactly what was in fermentation. When the project management sent this in its previous narrative tour in April, the proposal was almost as if by the animal back in August. That's it. Then it was sent into an open process. At that time, meetings were held far and wide throughout the country where people could attend meetings. So both members of Congress and the public, communities, and others have had this to consider. It's a specific tool. Like what? paritaprevir And Jehozath the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir came in when this tool, which is done by men, and hath proved good in many respects. Others have talked about whether I would not want to make adjustments in these laws, making guidelines clearer. I think it was a why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, who discussed going over the law. That's what we've been discussing at the Ministry. We've noticed that it has come, and I said it in my speech, certain knees we see, and it's normal that something will be done. The Ministry is very conscious of setting up such work. I'm sure they will. I think it's only natural, then, that the next Minister - it'll be a short time for the Ministry to get a new minister -- choose a group like that. I don't think in my last days I should be doing it. But we've certainly seen it, and we'll take it for the treatment, or the Ministry. I don't know what else to say. I can agree with Spís Svavarsdóttir that it's boring -- and I've got a lot of inquiries here on the matter of peace, e.g. has been tried to express peace on the Kerns Mountains. By doing so, there would be only four sources of activation of protection. It has only stopped regarding organizational matters, but I really hope that we will be able to end the issue during the autumn days that the State's declarations of peace will penetrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u161	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister here gave a fine talk, very objective and reasoning, and killed, I think, of all the questions and facts that have been brought into our discussion today. What a fine end to a good speech when, at the end of her discussion, she said that she expected that by autumn the Kenings would be possible to complete the description of the peace of the mountains! That's important. The matter was begun in a time of government that I was serving as a industrial minister and began in 2007. Now I want to make it perfectly clear that in spite of my comment here and exchange with the chairman of the left movement, a green offer, which was shot like a real dancer on the political ice today, I do not believe that something would prevent this proposal from accepting. I think it'll be difficult, though. So I told them that it was the custom of the council and that it was a good rule to dig deeply into such matters. V.E.G. A minister argues against the fact that the matter has been told by rural society and by an organization and then by a state since March. She's absolutely right. The rest, however, is the development on the part of the council. This is based on experience, which is a very difficult and perfunctory matter. I just wanted to leave that opinion behind, as I said today, that I feel like a good way to agree with this proposal. It would have to be continued with her because, otherwise, the situation will come true. But with some experience, I doubt that it will succeed unless there is a complete agreement between the party groups here at the council. [[The president calls.]] I am not opposed to trying to do my part in achieving it if that is the way I want to, but I have heard of winding in such a way today that it may be difficult to expect too much.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u162	A respectable president. Thank you for the senator. He came naturally into the Rocks of Kerns. It is quite difficult when it takes decades to get such things done. I was almost back myself in spring, feeling like I'm holding my hand on the peace light. But it's like this, obviously, things can be difficult sometimes. I'm glad we have this common interest, and if I succeed, I see I have to have an escort with me from around here. Of course, I agree that this is a short time here at the National Parliament to process this, but as far as I can say earlier, I think most members of the Parliament are very aware of what is going on and what has been accomplished because of the long narrative that has been involved. I think there are few cases that go to a general meeting of the country, one six, seven if I remember correctly, and received reviews of them, processed from it, and returned to 12 weeks of narrative. There were a lot more people who brought envelopes in the second process, but that was the way it was, and very many people should have come to the case in the past six months. I repeat, it is my desire that the matter be fulfilled, but I understand that people choose and would have liked to have more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u163	A respectable president. Here I recommend a synonym with a search warrant to confirm for Iceland to make a decision by the European Commission on the basis of a joint Commission no. 97/2016, on entering the contract three types that involve public shopping and making special contracts. A respectable president. These include the European Union's three directives in the EEA Convention and the first two guidelines for public shopping. Their primary objective is to ensure transparency, equal access, and increase the agreements between the European Economic Areas. This takes the step toward today's public shopping process by simplifying the shopping process and making it more flexible. Special emphasis is placed on increasing the possibility of electronic shopping. These directives also recommend that the purchase of the government be increasingly permitted to take into account social factors such as environmental, innovation and social responsibility. It also enables SMEs to participate in exports, e.g. by reducing writing requirements, but it will also be permitted to divide contracts into smaller units to facilitate less enterprises to participate in exports. The third Directive consists of pooled agreements made, but such rules have not been set before by the European Union. The Directive defines specialised agreements as clear and precise due to difficulties that have been identified as separating agreements from other public purchases. In this case the Directive has to do with the selection and selection procedures of the EU Member States on the release of the EU Member States. They are aimed at ensuring that the selectors and other criteria are presented in advance, objective and non-discrimination. The induction of the three types calls for an overall review of current public shopping legislation. A financial minister has already proposed a new law on public shopping. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to account for the leading party of this synonym. This decision was made at a meeting of the European Commission on April 29th. Since the decision calls for a legal adjustment, it was taken under administrative notice from Iceland. At that point, however, a regular pay period had passed before a new assembly case. However, the secretary of finance had provided a bill on public shopping, which includes the introduction of the three directives. For these reasons, it was decided to go on the way of requesting permission to remove government instructions in the bill for the induction rather than of presenting a special synonym. This is certainly an unusual route, but there is a special warrant for it in the Generals' rules for the Constitution of the EEA. However, when this request was presented to the State Department of State, it presented a strong challenge for members of the committee to take a traditional way to defuse governmental notice of this decision, i.e. ... witha contributionto the Senate hearing proposal. It was probably a request. However, it is clear that in order to agree with the Parliament's decree, it is necessary to have quick hand. If not, the execution of the decision will be delayed considerably. It would be shocking because, in my opinion, it is very important that the common rules in the entire EEA area of public shopping and in these new rules include substantial improvement in the legal environment of public shopping. I suggest, a respectable president, following this discussion, the proposal will be referred to a second discussion and why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u164	A respectable president. I think it's like a lot of EEA matters that I've noticed lately very good and I don't see any reason not to agree with them. Still, I've heard from myself regularly, and especially from the highest level. District, yes, the highest, that we have nothing to say on these EEA rules, etc. But then I always see these rather well-developed ideas coming up. If we weren't in the EEA, would this be true? Do we have any reason to reject it, or is this matter that we are about to take up our own initiative? Do we remember recording these electronic items mentioned there? I want to go to the highest. Secretary of state after this is due to the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is mostly working with this EEA case and presenting it. However, these are issues that would probably be held by a secretary of the Interior if they were born here. Tells you the highest. The Minister of this EEA in general is improving? That's the question I'm coming to here. I'll connect this in the EU and, of course, the European Union discussion specifically, as well as the general debate that there are all kinds of issues involved, exploiting us, and we don't have anything to say about it, but then I don't really see it happening that the authorities are trying to resist unless only rarely. Usually it just seems like nice legislation, nice ideas like this. I wonder what kind of vision is the highest. Secretary of state's at it. Tells you the highest. Secretary of State that this case would be submitted at a council if we weren't in the EEA? Shouldn't we really be thanking you for being in the EEA? Should we not be grateful that there is a Korean and politicians elsewhere who make such fine, elegant laws for us so that we can accept them?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u165	A respectable president. I've always said that the EEA Convention is one of the most important treaties the nation has ever made. Of course, about 80% of our exports goes to that area. Of course, the four freedoms are important to us. So I've been very supportive. As for the material I recommend in this synonym, I'm very into it. I'm very much in favor of taking in two guidelines for public shopping that guarantee what? Yes, increased transparency, bioavailability, and increased competition for public agreements in the European Economic Area. I think that the arrangement we're living in for the EEA deal has been very suitable for Iceland. I'd also like to mention what we've been doing right now at the national level, we've had a certain group that's been sorting these directives, decisions and regulations on how important they are, and we've put more work on the regulations that have to do with our personal interests than others. I think it's important to stress that the EEA deal is important to us because of the commercial interests involved in national preparation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u166	A respectable president. First, make a good request that I have offended myself in the formalities. The point is, I also approve of our involvement in the EEA, but I still have the same concerns that are often tolerated, that we do not have so much to say. However, as I see other issues, I wondered: " What about that? It's fine, and that includes it. I wonder what kind of vision is the highest. First, the minister of foreign affairs is how we can better come to our viewpoints in order to influence these legislation. The second question is: Why? What should be our greater impact? What is it in this legislation, in the EEA society that we should like to have more to say? Perhaps the second and half question: How can we do this without entering the EU?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u167	A respectable president. Thank you for a question. Senator. We have access to this, to form in the joint EEA committee. Of course, we have staff who are employed in Brussels in our embassy, covering these orders. We've got a pretty good unit where we sort it out like I mentioned before. That is important to us. Of course, when we look at Iceland's interests, certain sectors of employment are important, in order to form the exports we want to make sure that they are successful and have access to the markets that are important to us. There are also other health - care directives, even which we may need to consider in particular how we bring in and how we do so. Of course, we also have people in our midst who are doing this watch. We may be putting extra funds into this seminary to do exactly what we want to do. There is a senator, a closer look, and an even greater influence on the early stages of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u168	Mr. President. What an interesting discussion that is! paritaprevir This is Hrafn Gunnarsson's son's Helgi. He is wondering how we can affect the content of the types approved in Europe and we need to record according to the EEA Convention. In the past, we had an indirect possibility to have a significant effect if we at other levels could find out that some sort of defect was found in a type that affected Iceland. At that time, the manager was virtually in control and in control of everything and close to it could introduce Icelandic views. Since then, the process that controls decisions has been changed in the European Union, i.e. The council has been given much greater authority than before. It is a specific legal process for consultation that should lead to a conclusion. If there is still a disagreement when it is over, it is, in fact, the Council of Europe that controls it. Today, however, we have no access, since we are not in the European Union and do not have members in it. I want to, because of what. A senator, who likes to think about things, points him on a path that I have sometimes taken up in discussions about how to stress and increase the effectiveness of Iceland. So all groups of members of the General Assembly have sisters at the council, too, that I think Pirantar. There has always been good cooperation between individual members of the council here and a group of sisters in the European Parliament. In some cases, as in the case of the United States, a standing invitation is to participate permanently in the activities of those members of Congress. Our group has made good use of it to the point that we have a professional relationship with them. I believe that when it comes to major issues decided by the Parliament and needs to have a strong impact on the decision, the members of Congress will develop a functional relationship and may have representatives who regularly attend the meetings of the European Parliament. The experience has shown that in general all political parties agree on what concerns Icelandic interests. They would be able, through their panels at the European Parliament, to present their affairs. This could have mattered greatly, for example, to the European Union's ban on certain added salt fish, which we succeeded in working hard and very hard, and actually working with the council and the Commission, to overcome. Actually, that's the only time I remember the council and the executives working together to eliminate the barrier to business. Back to the matter here, that is the best case. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson wondered if all EU types were good. Most are. Social rights in Iceland are much higher because of our EU Member States. This case is another example of how to expand, e.g. The rights of SMEs. In the matter of agreement here, the writing process is being greatly reduced, i.e. if you have a particular species of tenders, called competitive tenders. Then, in order to make an offer, you may have provided a number of proofs that small companies simply cannot, because of their small size, have put the cost and effort to get out; a certificate needed today, after this unlicited, in order to get into the offer. In effect, the bill set up a rule, so the companies don't have to provide these certificates and supply these and these data until they come up with an offer itself, and it's obvious that they have a great chance to get the case. This is one example of a number of factors involved in the bill. What I wanted to say is a lie to an initial language. A minister who surmisely explained that the Ministry of State - this time because of the time pressure it experienced and uncertainty about the customs of the council - would have tried to get the council to use an earlier inexperienced rule that I am not entirely convinced is as thoroughly valid in reality as the Ministry considers, i.e. to accept the removal of administrative notices without having the case before the council. The Joint EEA Committee has the potential to make decisions that bind Iceland to national rights. However, for decisions that lead to a change in the law, the Constitution is in accordance with the Constitution, as we all have understood it, only with special notice for these technical reasons. This is the government captain. No one is supposed to be able to relieve him except the Allied Congress. That is why I and others on the State Department of State did not react well to the problem of the State Department in order to avoid the council because it contained an example of which I am convinced, in the strength of my experience with the canoe, that it would be used over and possibly more often. I don't want to. I don't think anyone can and can't lift any controlled warning, except the General himself. The Ministry pointed out that it was time for these matters to be placed before the council. For my part, I said in the Committee and again here: it's a far more clean procedure for all people. Therefore, I declare it over them and return here that I believe the council should be quick to accept this matter and will put it at my disposal that it will be done. It was a statement I made on behalf of my party. So I believe that this matter is ours at the council, to be done as soon as possible, and before the council gets there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u169	A respectable president. I'm not gonna give a long talk about this, but I'm gonna come up here to answer. 4th, including Reykv.. n., Accier Skarphéðinsson, who went into a little bit of an effort on how the Icelandic Parliament might have a greater impact on the European Parliament. [[Up front.]] I don't think that's a bad idea. One senator noted that the members of the council here try to do so in collaboration with their Christian sisters at the European Parliament. On the other hand, after the discussions about the European Union and Iceland's Member States, I would have thought that we would need a more formal process to do so because such communication between sisters is expected to always be extremely informal and probably in nature oscillating. Talk about transparency. The proposal that lies here from the highest. A minister of the minister of foreign countries comes to enhance transparency and facilitate public shopping processes. After considering this matter just then, I came to realize that it could not be opposed, not as the case is presented here. Maybe there's something in the files that you might find to be absolutely horrible, but if you read the proposal as she is, it's just a good case. And then all of a sudden, I realize that I usually get that feeling of reading the EEA language. It seems in general to be a well - formed case. They have been taken into account, much has been taken into account in trying to find solutions that are suitable for all, while it is the whole point behind the European Union, to harmonise the market so that they work as best together. That's the brains of it. I sometimes think about my cell phones, I have android's cell phone, and he's got a USB connection. It is not bad that other producers have not adapted to some entirely different technology, it is good for them to agree on a standard that works best for all. It is essentially positive. However, the European market, it's somehow bad, an attack on independence, which is, of course, just bullshit, a respectable president, with all due respect. The debate that a European market should adapt to our situation and our systems because there is some sort of independence issue that is completely mistaken, respectable president. It's not a matter of national pride. This is a question of whether it is wise or not to have consistent rules with other markets so that they work best together. Then I wondered, " Why aren't we grateful for such excellent suggestions at the council? ' Or are we? Is that why it is the highest? Does the government work so hard to get such a big deal through? These are generally well - worked and well done by far more people than we can afford to pay and in much larger context than we have any opportunity to think about. I'm just gonna come up with this for thought, end up puking like a cot. A senator mentioned earlier. This is not necessarily a subsidiary declaration for the European Union's application but, rather, that I think it's good to think of things in a slightly different way than it might be in the general discussion. [[Up front.]] It's only because I think it's such a nice thing that I thought it was worth holding here a short fist about how you can think of it, not as a question about Iceland's verse EEA. I don't think this good thing would come from the Icelandic government unless it was for the EEA. I don't think so. I don't think the codfish of the EEA would exist in Iceland if we weren't in the EEA. I don't think the Icelandic government would take that initiative. The reason is twofold. I think, first of all, that the interests of the Icelandic government are simply out of place as normal as it is, but second, I don't think the government has the authority to do that. I don't think we're many, we just haven't enough of people who've learned enough about the huge 500 million European markets. I wanted to shove these injections into the discussion for thought because when we get these good things, perhaps we should remind ourselves that this is the case when the discussion is about us and we start to curse it into sand and ashes to have nothing to say about things in the EU. According to them, it is worth listening to when a person says that there is a particular conflict in a place that, according to one estimate, is more and more that the EEA needs us to make changes that we have nothing to say. Sooner or later, there is going to be a serious problem with the republic's constitution, and sooner or later we can't control the progress. At some point, it has become a matter of independence. I can't see it yet if I say exactly what it is because it's almost all something we want to record by what I know. But I don't think that the fact that we're getting relatively popular and good news from the EEA will turn off the European Union debate in the future. In the atmosphere today, this concept of the European Union has been established, and it does not mean anything anymore. I don't think that's the case. I think things like this and the fact that this is a good case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u170	V.E.G. President. I enjoyed giving talks. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. After all his depression in these matters, the fire of Europe broke out, which made my old heart rejoice. Hv. A senator has apparently concluded that one of the advantages of being a member of the European Union is that there are many and a lot more eyes on the government system than we have. It's just perfectly normal. True, fewer people work within European headquarters than are found in such places as the European Union. of the French Department of Agriculture. That's still 18 of you. a man who takes care of a lot, many good experts. It is true that they make special efforts to make mistakes in the market and bring a bill like this full of all sorts of bridgey things that are unlikely to have an hour and a time to do and may not concern much, but it is still important for small companies who are making a living, both at home and abroad. Hv. A senator killed a few words that my idea of what I've put here earlier, how we can influence the actions that the European Parliament has concluded after a conflict within its Commission. He is correct in saying that this is not a formal process. But there are no opportunities for Iceland to have a formal process to influence the type. That's the nature of the deal. He's like this. Any government who has sullied the changes in the EEA contract has made a petition to the store. I'll remember it for this smaller punk-ass punk-ass punk-ass punk-ass punk. The current agricultural minister and marine rights minister initially said that his first case was to overcome the changes in the EEA contract. He tried. Of course, he received the same answer as the Norwegians and others who are in the same boat that we are, that is not to be discussed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u171	A respectable president. I'm not gonna tell you if I'm in favor of Iceland's European Union until there's a reason for that. [[Up front.]] But if we were to do our job of binding national law on continued business talks, I would probably vote by continuing with them. I see no reason not to at least do so at this time, but I have not heard a good argument against it. But in Europe, I feel that there are some contradictions, such as the fact that we are eager to adopt these legislation, but we are somehow opposed to having to do so. I don't quite see what kind of people are getting into this whole thing without finally dealing with the question, whether or not we want to be part of the European Union. The question, too, goes into the EEA business on account of this conflict. I don't have a complete solution for it. But if a person is going to reevaluate it, he is really going to do it. But then I also wondered what deal they think Iceland is, because we've become pretty dependent on that market and rightly because we have this access. Of course, we do not want to lose our good opportunities. So I don't see exactly how people look forward there without discussing seriously at least continuing the meeting and having a contract. You too, by the way. There's another contradiction in what I see. They complained about it and complained bitterly that it was an adjustment of the interview that with the talk, Iceland was making so much adjustment. Now I have not seen a single matter of Congress proposed by the Supreme Court. A government to take away the alleged harm. Not one thing. However, I can see injected EEAs, which are more adjustments, which we have nothing to say about which we're complaining about, that we don't have anything to say. So I have to say, more dignified President, that I can agree with many things. A senator said, but at least I don't see the end of the EU discussion, no matter what the situation today is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u172	V.E.G. President. Walking in the European Union is no goal in itself just to be part of it. The introduction into the European Union is the means to achieve specific objectives. You're right. One senator says that the discussion about that particular relationship will probably never be over. It's not necessarily that men are drawn into recording these types, as we have seen in recent discussions. So there are many who are very opposed, including. saw a senator who put his head in the back of his guard earlier. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, he always called it, when the talks were going on, adaptable talks. But like a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson pointed out that Icelanders, or Icelandic Parliament, are making new and new adjustments to the European Union, i.e. The induction of all these types. Then there are dozens of them if not hundreds of types each month or every loss is recorded without need for adjustment. In other words, we constantly adapt to EU regulations. All I want to do is kill like a dog. In his previous answer, a senator said that sooner or later we would reach the point of the Constitution. There are many examples of this in recent years, since we are handing over authority that is questionable in the Constitution. I mention, for example. in several cases handing out guilty warrants. It is literally forbidden according to the constitution. At that time, governmental experts have pointed out that there is a small area to be covered each time. But when we add these many specific areas, it's my opinion that we've crossed this gray area. The EEA contract and the Constitution are no longer fighting. There are two ways to correct this problem, either to join the European Union or to change the Constitution so that it would confer authority on the State and the Council to give power to national institutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is hardly any other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u173	A respectable president. So I explained the other day that the Constitution can't be fully tested, which, of course, is what we computers call a hook, I don't know how to say on a better Icelandic, respectable President, that's some kind of mix. It doesn't quite work if you think about it to the end, but somehow it works together just because of how the legal system and the Constitution work, but certainly not according to design, but according to the way things grew. I think it's worth a lot and also important when we talk about the EU, because now I have spoken in a way that at least matters. A senator believes that there are positive and probably many others, that there is one thing we need to keep in mind when it comes to the European Union and that it is learning from the mistakes that have been made. Then I'm going to mention Baltrexit here on the last minute. I drew the lesson from Bfenit and the hostility that has developed in many parts of Europe toward the European Union that the European Union has the concept of disregarding democracy. Whether this is true or not, it is very important not to have that image. It's just the same way with the court. It is not enough that justice is done; justice must also be seen. In this case, I think that if we continue to do business with the European Union, it is urgent that we set a good example in this and say that we have a national law on membership, so that there is no doubt that it is the nation that has chosen it. This means everything to me. I think if they're going anywhere else to go, but they're going to be in trouble later. I think Baltrexit is the only manifestation of it. I'm afraid there'll be more. However, the effect there has been that you do not see that many other peoples are benefiting from the relationship, but it is also important that the European Union conforms to this image, whether it is true or wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u174	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to be here tonight, measuring for a synopsis of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People. I would expect this proposal to have extensive support for the council. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people was signed by the United Nations on March 30, 2007. Since then, 166 countries have validated the contract. The objective of the contract is to have all human rights and human rights fully and to match others as well as to protect and ensure such rights and freedom and to increase respect for their natural dignity. The contract has to be fully validated. Iceland has already signed to respect its principles. It is unmistakably that the validation of the contract will mark an important milestone in the legal struggle of disabled people. By validating the agreement, we activate his dual monitoring system, which will be carried out on a report to the National Committee and, on the other hand, a national checkup by establishing an independent human rights agency. Has the Minister of the Interior cooperated with the bill of establishing such an institution that meets so - called Paris guidelines that guarantee independence of such institutions. This institution is not limited to the implementation of this contract but to monitor the implementation of human rights contracts and commitments of Iceland. With a synopsis on the implementation program in disabled persons to 2014, approved in June 2012, the General concluded that work was to be completed in the adaptation of the Icelandic legislation of the Treaty in 2013. However, the preparation took longer than expected. Some changes have already been made in Icelandic legislation in preparation for the validation of the contract. In 2011, the Allied Council adopted a law on the rightfulness of disabled people, including those who were disabled. Taking into account Article 12. The deal. There is also the change in legal laws, the U.S. election laws, and the U.S. military elections. Furthermore, the United Nations Convention on Child Rights has been legalized. Since 2011, tests on user - controlled assistance have been conducted on the basis of preliminary Article IV laws on the affairs of disabled persons. In accordance with the preliminary directive, the regulations for user-controlled assistance should be set up in a law by the end of 2016. Then, much of the duties laid on the state under the contract are in the form of non-several action. These include awareness, training, and training. At validation, a number of projects will have to be started in those areas. At that time, the surveillance system of the Convention calls on the activities of UN committees and reporting to them on the implementation of the contract, an important reflection of government activities and an important platform for the rightfulness of disabled persons. As soon as the contract is valid, this surveillance system is activated. Finally, it is the current government task to develop and implement rights that the contract has to do with whatever individual adjustments are made. However, the full implementation of the contract requires several further legal adjustments so that national legislation is fully adapted according to its regulations. Civil service laws and social services laws also need to be performed by those who are disabled. to change agreement with various terms of the agreement and to enhance their interaction. The project is aimed at providing a bill in the coming winter to meet the issues yet to be fulfilled. Then there is the bill to set up a law against discrimination and further bills to meet the commitments of the contract. Hv. President. With these words, I have recommended a synopsis of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. I suggest that the proposal be followed by this discussion referred to the highest level. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u175	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. The minister said that it would be a pleasure for her to make this proposal for Congress, and she expected the proposal to receive extensive support here at the council. Yeah, I think I am. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on behalf of the government to make this proposal. The suggestions remain the same from the motion I am the 1st transporter to which I was submitted to the General Assembly of October 6, 2015. It's been discussed on a welfare committee, visitors have come to a meeting with the committee, reviews have been sent, etc., all in all, as the law expects the procedure for the Council of Congress at the General Assembly. It was the highest. Minister of state knowledge of my decree of interpretation? Was it discussed in the government when she made this suggestion that the council had exactly the same proposal, from a smaller section of the council? I don't want to call myself a government opponent in this case. I'm sitting in my section. Why did not the government just decide to make the suggestion that I and 12 other members of the Parliament are moving through the council? Then could we agree with that proposal tomorrow? Here's the highest place. The minister of state offers the exact same wording as it really is, but the proposal is to go to the General and Education Committee. I don't think that proposal can run out in the remaining days of the council. A respectable president. That's why I'm asking the highest. Foreign Minister of these questions. Is it so, then, that the government has a little thought that she cannot consider accepting a proposal from the smaller section? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u176	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I think it's very important that we work together on this matter. It's taken some time. I was informed that there would be a little more work to do before I could come up with it. I haven't made the suggestion that came from what happened. A senator compares with what we present here, but I expect the importance of this matter that we can all stand together and make this case a success. I strongly assume that this is because it's strange, and I just have to say right now, that we're not getting any further on the case. Iceland signed this contract in 2007. As I said in my history, of course, a lot has been done to improve the situation of disabled people in Iceland, and we still need to work on it. I think that forms that the surveillance system of the contract is extremely important. I think and I depend on the fact that we're all going to stand at it together in this house.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u177	V.E.G. President. V.E.G. Secretary of state is confident that we can stand together in this house to agree with this proposal. We can stand together to accept this proposal, therefore, next Monday or Tuesday after a government meeting if the highest. The minister of state would bring the case back in there. As I told you before, a new committee of this proposal begins on the new committee, General and Education Committee. It takes time. That's why I'm asking again, "Why don't you just give me the highest place in the world?" Minister of Foreign Affairs for the government to propose a resolution of 13 members in my section, which will completely address this matter and which is exactly the same, shall be agreed? That's my question to the highest. Minister. How shocking it would be to know that if the government now looked only over its hill and saw to it that this proposal was to be accepted! I propose that the proposal be agreed on Monday or Tuesday because it will be called work and coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u178	A respectable president. As I said before, I think it's very important that we finish this case. I relied on it because of the importance of it. I can't believe that we're going to argue over their issues, to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. In fact, I'm a little surprised that I'm having this word exchange here because I've been waiting a long time for this matter. I mentioned earlier that in 2007 the contract was signed. Already a 166 state has validated the contract. [[Up front.]] So I find it terribly sad when we've prepared this case so well, we're going over it, and we've had a lot of discussions with all the stakeholders, and if we're going to make it some political thing here. [[Up front.]] I just have to say it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u179	You're doing it politically.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u180	V.E.G. President. From the beginning of the two years ago, however, I have been in the various discussions quite often called after the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people being validated by the United States on the part of Iceland, with the permission of the Supreme Court. President: ▪ A reason for the development of an international human rights Convention on the rights of disabled people is the fact that while disabled people have the same human rights as others, they are often not allowed to make use of their rights. That, of course, is the basic part of the deal. I was with a senator's odor proposal. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, who used to have a place of words here at the highest level. Minister. I have to admit that when I saw that this case, it was just coming out of the top. A minister raised the question to me: Why now? Why is this case now from the highest level? Minister? What has been considered to be the highest. Ministers changed from the time we called after this contract would be validated? It is quite tore up comments on which laws are going to change, to the highest degree. Government and supreme. Minister of the I.U.S. Ministers even used as evidence that the case could not be concluded. [[The president calls.]] It's not over yet. I would like to receive a little clearer answers from the highest level. Minister on what's changed. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the matter is still as good.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u181	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I think it's very important that we finish this case, I'll just admit it. Even though not all the legal adjustments that many thought were needed, I believe that if we were to validate the agreement, it would be more effective. That's my personal opinion. When the case came to my office, I felt it was extremely important to complete it and do it the way we are doing. It may be that there is a debate about the synonym that has been mentioned earlier tonight. But if I'm gonna tell you right now, I just don't think that's all that matters. What matters most is that we can finish the case and even if not all the legal adjustments that have been mentioned were necessary, I believe that when we validate the contract, it will further push on the necessary adjustments needed. Do I mention there to form a bill to legalize the services of disabled people and to change the law on local social services. We assume that it will be submitted at the 2016-2017 Parliament. The bill to correct the prohibition on discrimination. When we validate the agreement, it will further push to agree with these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u182	V.E.G. President. I can't think of making any comment that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People is validated without having all the legal adjustments listed and the need to be addressed. I can't think of that. But I think it's very unusual that this case will come right now because we've had our lung called for this validation and called for work to be accelerated. This is very strange, especially since the slow outcome has been given to Congress cases to complete its validation. I see no better than that this matter is now during the final days of this council, unfortunately, going to the highest level. Government will be able to take possession of the case. V.E.G. The government wants to sign their agreement on the rights of disabled people. Of course, it's really good to be able to enter a campaign with it on your CV. I will support the completion of this contract because it matters materially for a lot of people in the community. But I feel sad if the matter is resolved during the last days of the council when it is at its height. In other respects, a government has made a gross lack of control for disabled people, e.g. When it comes to the implementation of those who need to rely on the social security system and disability benefits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u183	A respectable president. What was missing in the synopsis proposal was made, and its translation, I understand, so it was also technical. On the other hand, I have to say exactly that this is just that big, and even if it does come in during the last days of the council, it has been quite confusing. The minister who stands here is eager to try to push the case into a further pressure on the rights of disabled persons to make further adjustments. I think it's the best thing to do, and I'm just gonna be really surprised if people are going to make it a political debate that we're going to validate the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. [[Up front.]] It's just really surprise me, I have to say it right now. I understand that the council error proposal has not been completely completed according to my people in the Ministry. But I'll admit it here, too, that I haven't compared these council proposals. This may be because I accepted an office now in the beginning of April. You're just gonna have to be ashamed of me for that, but I think you should be glad that this is the way you're getting things done. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u184	Mr. President. It is a historic stage in the fact that it is the full will of the European Commission and the full will of the Council, as we have considered, to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. This has been a struggle for many people for a very long time. Faithful people have been fighting for it for a very long time. When I was a minister of foreign affairs and took up this matter in the government, the conclusion was that the matter would be considered in a way how to change the law and the various virtues so that commitments could be fulfilled as the validation of the contract. If I recall right and my older and less elderly, I guess there were 17 changes needed to be done on Icelandic law. Similarly, certain organizations had to be made so that the contract could be validated so that the government could, in effect, fulfill the commitments it made. V.E.G. Ministers deserves to thank you for informing what I didn't know before, that one of the plans is to establish a local rights institution, or I understood at least No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister in this way. Because of personal circumstances in the past week, ten days may have passed me by, but I haven't seen that bill here at the council and I don't know if it's been submitted yet. However, it is a matter that could truly be discussed. I'm not going to do it right now, but I've had very strong opinions about who should be the project of such an institution and could have asked the highest degree. Minister on whether it was the will of the government to e.g. There would be a pricing of the contract, and I could mention some other projects. I'm not gonna do that. All I'm pleased to say is that the case has come as far as the government is behind it and has shown full will in this case to confirm the agreement. Similarly, the work that has been done in relevant professional committees is being carried out, and the head of the council agrees on the matter. As explained earlier, a suggestion that was truly in harmony with what has now been proposed had been concluded and discussed. V.E.G. A minister has declared that there is no difference between her and the suggestion, and she proposes unless there is an Icelandic translation in an English contract text. What good news these are for disabled people! This is very important. I don't want to spoil the joy of the government and the joy of feasting. However, a minister of foreign affairs by pointing out something that may not show the same good will in all places of this government and in the speech of the Supreme Court. Minister. However, at the exact time we discuss a contract that forbids discrimination against disabled people, the situation is that disabled people who have personal help, so - called NPA support, have their problems in full uncertainty. As you can recall, this was a specific experimental operation to include. The current government had the responsibility that prior to 2014, they had been brought to the fore how to finance it for the future. Similarly, the government was ordered by the General's approval of the Management Plan on the Management of Infirm People that prior to the end of 2015, a bill on how the user - controlled personal assistance should be conducted was submitted. That case was extended for a year. Hence, the obligation to present such a matter rests upon this government. Meanwhile, there are dozens of very disabled individuals who can hardly earn the freedom they deserve, according to 65 C.E. The Constitution of equality and equality, of life. NAPA was one impressive way to do this, at great cost, but there is still a debate between recruitment and between the government and rural society in what way the State should pay its share of the cost. That means, for example. that in Reykjavík, in my district, there are 13 individuals who certainly enjoy such a team, but there are others on the waiting list. These matters cannot be resolved because the government has not lived up to its purpose. I'm not making the most of it. Minister for that. I'm just pointing out that it's like the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. The good mind that shows up at the highest. The minister of foreign speeches to enforce this case is not revealed in the highest court. Minister to handle this. I'll mention it specifically because it's not going to be a council for the next few days. So, in some way, we must complete before the end of the council, and there is no way to pick this up at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs. That's why I'm taking this opportunity to say it here. I give much support to this case, as I have before and outside the government. It is estimated that approximately 10% of all the people on the globe are considered disabled. Thus, it is possible, as it is somewhere in a report, to view this 10% as the largest minority in the world. To date, the main concern of this group has been discussed in the systems under our health and health care, which are rarely discussed on the basis of human rights. This deal is about individual rights. That is how we should approach it, especially us who have been here for a long time, and we who want to work to create a welfare community where there is room for everyone and where everyone is put on their arms. This agreement contains certain fundamental reasons that are truly positive. The most important thing, perhaps, is to the highest level. Minister mentioned that this was a special bill involved in that case, i.e. The prohibition against discrimination, found in Article 5. This deal. It is surprising that Iceland has not recently approved such laws, especially when it is noted that in the European Union, such rights have long been adopted through law that I think in most EU countries. But for some reason, the EFTA countries or the EEA/EFTA countries have avoided recording this. This contract is about to fire for it. Apart from the prohibition of discrimination, the contract is based on equal opportunities for all to have. What makes me very happy is that the opportunities of disabled children are especially addressed and emphasized that we, the government, are to respect their abilities as well as the way they develop and change with age. We are all to show honor, especially the authority, in their right to preserve our sense of identity. That is what really matters to so many people. Finally, although I could give a much longer talk about this, I would like to express my joy in this matter. I simply believe that this is such an important step in the legal struggle of disabled people that the council needs to take a very close look at its progress. Even if there isn't some prime news about the need for legal adjustment, the validation is far more than fixed in the rights of disabled people whom we have, all of whom have made us so concerned, always short over the years. I'm sure I'll hear it from the talks that will be followed. The fact that there is a matter of Congress has been discussed by various members of the government opposition, which is said to be almost exactly the same. It has also been informed that this matter has almost been resolved by a committee, so there is solidarity. It has been suggested that time shortages could be resolved. Then I must ask myself, " If this case has been won, there will be no need to double it, to look for details, as well as to examine how the project is carried out. ' Then they must be able to work together with this issue without the need to be specifically sent out. So I have the luxury of thinking aloud in this way: Is it not possible that the work that needs to be done in order to finish the suggestion already, and we can use it to resolve this matter even if there are only nine days left?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u185	V.E.G. President. I want to say the bottom line. Minister that it is a very happy day today when the contract is submitted to validation. I say it because I was here the other day, when the proud march had passed, when the people were outside the Norwegian house, and hundreds of people were walking. It turned out that it had been decided within the government to propose a validation of this agreement. It was a public and a great joy. I don't think we should play any pussy contests about who's put this case up before or whatever it is. It has been discussed with the proposal, which was certainly proposed by minor members and was discussed with the welfare committee. We had a lot of visitors go through the matter, far and wide. Even there was a number of them. pointed out what appeared in some comments, e.g. From Tabu, a feminist movement that focuses particularly on defending the rights of disabled people and especially of women, the one who has been able to face the most oppression and discrimination in the world, there is probably no other group of people who have been affected by such violence as women who have been physically ill. They even point. notes in his reviews that it was proposed, and this is shown in a report presented by the welfare committee to the government following the proposed case. Councilmen have mentioned. The report, by permission of the president, says: On December 13, 2006, the United Nations Convention on Human Rights was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly of the United Nations No. 61/611. It was submitted for the signing of March 30, 2007, and signed for Iceland on the same day. It went into effect on May 3, 2008, when 20 countries had validated it. On June 11, 2012, the General Assembly adopted a resolution of No. 43/140, of the work programme on disabled people to 2014. According to Team F.1 in III. The chapter of the conclusion was to provide the bill for the validation of the agreement no later than the 2013 spring Summit. It has been a long time in 2016, and the contract has not yet been validated. The committee feels irreprehensible that it has so far passed without validation that governments have failed to succeed in this important matter. And there are now more governments than we can talk about today. It's been falling in the system for way too long. I continue to quote this report: ▪ In view of the fact that the Council has already agreed to validate the treaty, the Committee does not feel the need to accept the Convention's decree, but it directed to the government to promptly validate the agreement and comply with the legal hearing made by the European Convention, as has been done with the European Convention on Human Rights. Law No. 62/1994, and the United Nations Convention on Child Rights by Law, cr. Law No. 19/2013.◯ That's the case. I think those who made the proposal in the fall, huh? paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller and others, can be proud of it. I think it made it possible that this case is now being submitted by a welfare committee. I don't think there's anything at all, though I say that of the people who came to our committee, Tabu and their presentation was the most important factor in the fact that it was presented, the language was unique, and left everyone out of words. There was nothing wrong with the fact that if we were to be counted in proper and good lands, we would have to accept this agreement and legalize it as soon as possible. As I mentioned earlier, the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people and his selective book was signed for Iceland's hand 2007. It has been nine years since, and still it has not been validated or legalized in spite of a clear policy on implementation programmes and legislation relating to the rights of disabled persons. But now it's got the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs submits a proposal to validate the contract as soon as it should be welcomed. That's what we should do today, and always, celebrating it very much and viewing it as the beginning of something wonderful in the affairs and lives of disabled people. There has been natural work on the validation of the contract and the use of certain capitals in this project since the beginning and signing. There are many reasons to be made in that process, e.g. is still inadequate for translation work. Whether or not the adjustment and system modifications are made in order to validate significant and in accordance with the terms of the agreement. It's got Tabu even. Their reviews are made very serious comments on the translation of the Treaty, which in many cases seem to try to reduce the State's obligation at the expense of disabled persons. This is something that we must consider very seriously, for they require a very great deal of this to be fixed. So do we. The root of this problem is actually obvious and introduces other offenders in the process, and it lacks real consultation with disabled people. So you need to take it seriously and correct it. It is a key and has always been that this work is to be done in full cooperation and cooperation with disabled persons, i.e. with the ones that are about. We, however, can no longer allow disabled people to wait for a safer trial and protection from the indiscretions that are common to their reality. As I mentioned earlier, it is one of the largest minorities that are largely peripheral on a global scale. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Reckoning Össur's Skarphéðinsson earlier. In the bright future, we agree that the contract will be validated before the end of the council now and with the idea that there is much to be done ahead, both legally within the administration and in the community, in order to enforce these international commitments. I acted accordingly, and it has been noted that one of the things to do to validate this agreement was to offer a bill on the ban on discrimination. Today, some days have passed since a bright future set out a bill for that purpose. It is quite remarkable that they did not get a seminar on the council, since it was specifically proposed to help with the implementation of the contract. It was proposed by Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter, who is a guardian for the bright future. I spoke for her in March, but there has been no discussion on a committee and has been left out, even though it is very important that this case arise because these laws need to be changed. So you wonder, " What's behind it? ' Why isn't this done? It is as it is, it may be the possession of elements and ideas that often delay the job of Congress. Amazingly, in Poland, Iceland, people argue for possession of ideas, suggestions, or bills. It's quite absurd. While people are waiting in the community, there's nothing they can do about it. We represent the people naturally and make it their request. We also believe that the optional book will be validated. I further remind you that all of this work must be led by disabled people and worked with their full resources, as the agreement agreed. It makes it very clear that all the work involved in this contract and its induction, and when discussing disabled persons, should be in agreement with those who are disabled and are to lead the work. If we do, we will prevent further offenses and delay in the coming process. More important, we stress and support and agree with the demands that the contract be legalized immediately. I think that's the perfect key. It was considered necessary in its time to legalize the children's covenant so that it would gain real significance for the child's legal status. We feel the same thing about the rights of disabled people. Their experience, as well as their research in this field, simply shows that the stratosphere of disabled persons is so grave that drastic measures will be taken to reverse that trend. This optional publication has to do with the natural possibilities of disabled persons in order to sue the land for the United Nations Human Rights Court of Human Rights. This is also a key factor in the surveillance of the Icelandic state and the potential for the disabled to proceed if they stop here, especially in view of the fact that we are a little behind on the rights of disabled people in Iceland. Once again, I say I rejoice over this matter and will not delay its progress, it is quite clear. I sure hope we can get this done before the end of the council, though it's safe to ask why it's so late. I believe it's because of what I mentioned first, it's a matter of a matter of well-being committee report on the surrogacy proposal of minor members who promoted this action. Surely, that should be a cause for rejoicing!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u186	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the fact that this case has developed like the rest of the people here have spoken. In fact, I'm of the opinion that this case is the nature of which it should flow very smoothly through. I suggest that members of Parliament concentrate on it, all as one, to ensure that it will be the case, that it goes through a committee quickly, and that it reaches a vote at first. Then I suggest that it be as early as possible that it be settled and not part of a dam that could develop here on the final days of the council as it has become famous. It is boring to complain when good matters are presented, important matters, and necessary matters, which have been repeatedly presented, and for a very long time, it has been pointed out that it is necessary. And many have rightly complained that this has been late and that we are late. But I also think that it is not in itself at the highest level. Minister of Foreign Affairs to be found guilty there. As has been pointed out in a fine talk. Tenth. The southern district, Páll Valur Björnsson's son, has been brought up, and it has been stated in the council that we are to have been able to do this a long time ago. For example, that was a problem. 7. That's the north side. Kristján L. Möller. Why was that proposal not approved? Why hasn't she been fully treated? I just want to kill the same thing as what. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's son mentioned earlier that the danger of such a matter, as with any other matter, was that I was in a hurry to get in our way, that I should get in the way of Congress. If the correct names were simply on this suggestion, I insist that she had received a completely different treatment. Sadly, this is a political fact in Iceland, probably everywhere. There may not be much work to do, but it is proper to mention it when you see that it is evidently the case. This does not involve a sentence against the highest order. Minister or something. People, not even a respectable president, but simply a tip on how such systems can fail disabled people because we politicians are too proud of our own initiative to give priority to their interests and rights. Again. I'm not sure there's a lot to be done about it in the long run, but we better figure it out if we're ever going to try to do better than that. If we were completely free of that from where there were any suggestions, I'd think a concierge proposal would be made. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller had long since come to AlIIar's conclusions. I also think the bill is what it is. paritaprevir Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter, vice-consister Bjart's future, had become a law. There is actually one thing I could have only complained about, 233. gr. a in general penalties, but that's because I'm against the way the article itself is spoken - it's not the list I have on, it's justified - and therefore it would support the case anyway. But that is really all there is to say that there is a real political issue beyond which one puts it forward. I think it's time to point this out. Likewise, it is worth considering whether a head of the council is needed to conclude that it is in particular to validate this agreement, if it is not completely legal already. That in itself is because the Council should not have any problem validating it itself. In fact, it would be good for the case to show what I sincerely expect to be the complete harmony of a contemporaneous society, i.e. to accept this important matter, thereby highlighting the importance and rightness of the case. That's all I'd like to say for a time, a respectable president. I just thought I'd get it over with. But, of course, since we have come here, let's look at the matter clearly and unite in order that this case will reach full conquistador and vote as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u187	V.E.G. President. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People is, in my opinion, one of the greatest human rights contract ever made. What is so remarkable about this contract is that it does not guarantee any new human rights, there is nothing that has not been entered into another human rights contract before. So this does not include any new rights to disabled persons. The fact is, disabled people have not enjoyed human rights like others, i.e. Other general human rights contracts have not reached out to disabled people in the past. What the United Nations Treaty on the rights of disabled people is that it recognizes and emphasizes that the human rights of disabled people are the same as that of others and confirm the right of disabled people to enjoy these rights. That's what's so great about this deal. So far, the affairs of disabled people have been viewed as a health - care subject, a subject of the welfare system, often as a subject of someone we need to discuss and put aside special rules in our community. The reason for the existence of these international human rights contracts is that although disabled people are supposed to have the same human rights as others, we have not been able to help people make use of these rights. Of course, that was why it was so important, and people naturally rejoiced, when Iceland signed the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people on March 30, 2007. Of course, it is for this same reason that disabled people and various disabled people have called after we validate this same agreement. I am truly glad that this seems to be the time for Iceland to validate the contract. I would have liked it to have been done before, and in fact, I have called from this platform to work on legal adjustments that have been listed and that require changes in Icelandic legislation to be made because it has been used as a reason why the contract has not been validated that it needs to be changed by Icelandic legislation. It's just a matter of time before we get to the top. The government seems to be able to spin over that part, and it is possible to validate without changing all the laws. I'm certainly not going to argue about this, but I'm going to draw attention to the timing. I think it's a little special that this change in policy is going to be here in these last days of the council. And as has been brought up here in protest, Congress was proposed, which was in harmony with the synopsis proposed here in the highest name. Secretary of state, which we have already discussed, has been for the treatment of the council. So we could have done this weeks or months ago. There is nothing that has changed in the legal environment at this time. I just can't help it, but, unfortunately, I feel like the highest. The government is using this case for an election. I think it's a little boring that it's the way the Allied Congress gets it all figured out. By the way, I will surely do my part in making the contract valid because it matters to disabled people, absolutely important to disabled people. It's very well done here, how it's listed in comments with this synoptic proposal, what songs are needed to change in order for Icelandic legislation to be in harmony with this contract. It is only work that a new assembly faces after the election, and, in fact, it has been in the best interest, a certain preparatory work has been done there. It's a job that's been going on since then. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson was the highest. Minister of state. Of course, we do enjoy that work, for of course, the law needs to be adjusted. What may be the big thing and, when it comes to it, may be the hardest thing, when it comes to this contract and its content, we as senators and we as a community take to heart the power of this contract to make it work. In order to achieve the desired results and to ensure that, just as the contract assumes, the human rights of disabled persons, we really need to bear in mind, in all our work here at the General, that all the laws adopted at the General Assembly need to reflect on this contract to see if they will not be able to reach the disabled in times of trial. It has a major change to be guaranteed by such a human rights contract. That is why, as with many disabled persons, I feel that it is so important that we take the next step. We now validate the agreement, but then we take the step all the way, and we also legalize it so that disabled people will be able to sue the United Nations if they believe that the government is violating its rights. I believe it and trust that this deal will be validated now and that it will be a great justice for the disabled in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u188	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for her speech here and as when we made our suggestion. She's one of the couriers of the proposal I am a 1st manifester, and I'd like to thank her once again for carrying these cases as well as she has done here at the Generals. I just want to say that, a respectable president, and I'm kind of taking advantage of an answer, that I'd like to look for ways to end this matter before we go home, before this council ends, in a solution. Upon further consideration of this matter, I believe, first of all, that the matter is to be joined by the State Department of State. This is a confirmation of an international convention, and this is as was done regarding the Paris Convention at its highest level. The minister of state hasn't moved quite a long time ago. I'm asking the senator if we as couriers and amateurs are going to confirm this synopsis should look for solutions - and I'm saying this because two if no more senators, and including less proposals, sit on a foreign committee - and use us for business and visitors to a welfare committee and look for respect from a welfare committee to speed this up. What I'm afraid of is the General and Education Committee is that the case would take part in a traditional reporting process and a new process. We're supposed to be able to take advantage of the data they already have. I'm asking why. A senator whether we as managers or traders to the proposal - amateurs like all members of the Parliament are about to confirm this proposal as soon as possible and agree - cannot unite that this route will be carried out wish for a foreign business committee to set up sleeves and finish this ◯en-to-treHow, so that you might drop a bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u189	V.E.G. President. Of course, I would always like to be cleared up and, much less, in matters of my heart. I have to admit, it makes me even more solution than I am every day. I think that's a good suggestion. Senator, this is going to the Foreign Affairs Committee. I agree that, of course, the work the council has done is to be used. The welfare committee in this case, to look for details about the contract. Better now. There is plenty of work we have here, even though we do not become involved in making things better than we have to do. I have to admit that I may not be good enough in the process of whether human rights contracts sometimes pass a different route through the Parliamentary Committees than any other matter that is subject to foreign affairs. But on the State Department, we are always dealing with something as high as possible. Minister has taken the commission of Iceland and with administrative notice. So I can't see what should keep this way from going. Well, for some reason, it's the highest. Secretary of state measuring for the case. [[The president calls.]] Yeah, I think it's a good idea, and I think it can make us finish this important thing in just a few days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u190	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers and the understanding that she has spoken about. It's her heart's business, she says. It's also with me, and I've been there all my life, even though I may not have been in the same way here at the council for the performance of such proposals, although I've been participating in discussions and once on the welfare committee. I'm not suggesting, more distinguished President, that the case goes on with the State Department. On the other hand, I mention this as a solution to the matter and to get faster progress. Well, I'm just gonna give it up, then. Minister of state, in his final speech, to consider the possibilities mentioned here. I'd also like to state, sir, a respectable president, that considering the small number of days left, it is very important that it follow from this hall to the previous envelope. to the Foreign Affairs Committee, if this goes there, uses data and other information available on the welfare committee for reviews with the Senate arrangement that I and other members of Congress have made. That's how I'm convinced that in the remaining nine days, we're going to finish this case. It would be a blow to the fact that the Allied will be able to handle this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u191	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to come up in this second answer to stress that I will put forth effort to see that where I can get involved - yes, I have a seat on my head. The Foreign Affairs Committee and there, I will work on our ability to complete this case and that we can validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Although I've criticized what the matter is and had been calling in for a long time, it's just that I think everybody's going to vote by saying that we're going to validate the contract. For disabled people, it's so important that we finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u192	There's no more waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u193	Like what you've been through, you can't put up with any more waiting. A senator says. The full value of Iceland's contract on this contract will not make it that butter will fall here every bit of straw and that disabled people will not meet any barriers in the community. It's not like that. The struggles continue, and the obstacles that are in the way of disabled people will remain there, but they will be able to take the next steps and resolve in the next phase of the battle, which is also of great importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u194	President. I thank the senator for a fine and meaningful speech on this important subject, which you are so aware of as being a matter of the heart's affairs compared to its recent presentation at the council and efforts to establish this and that of others on the program. In effect, I want to agree with the discussion that took place in the first line of defense. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra Eagle's Árnadóttir. It is very important that in order for this to end right now and in order to put some things in the process, they feel that they have come back to what has already happened if this is to be part of a foreign committee. I kind of have to ask you what. A senator about one thing involved in the administration here at the council is currently subject to this sort of thing. Of course, this case should have been on the welfare committee rather. The matter has been discussed on a welfare committee, and it would have seemed natural to me that, despite being the minister of foreign affairs, the job had taken place there. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes that it is quicker to take it through a foreign committee or through a welfare committee to allow us to take it through right now during this brief period of time. This matter is well - known. Yet, it is always so that you do not really know whether it is just as it was suggested. I'd like to ask the senator if she's got her eyes on something that's not exactly the same in the case, the senator's case, and so on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u195	V.E.G. President. As I said before, I just have to admit that I may not be sead enough on events here at the end of a discussion and that the case is referred to by the committee in order to have a completely fixed view of the exact identity of this particular case. I often feel very obvious, and I see where to point things out. But this is a matter of the degree and extent of society. In some ways, I don't find it strange to be the highest. Ministers have suggested that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee, i.e. The entirety of it, because, as the agreement simply says in comments, the causes of disabled people have been viewed as health or health issues. The subject of disabled people is just so much bigger and wider than they are. The subject of disabled people is people's affairs. It's not really more complicated than that. I think if there's any way that a foreign relations committee can get us to do this, I think it's just the best thing to do. In fact, I don't really think that it's a big opinion what the Senate Committee is considering. Rather, it's that the Senate Committee that gets it uses the work that has been done so that we can finish the case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Must answer the second in answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u196	President. I appreciate the answer, and I can totally say the same thing. A senator may see the issue, not the main issue, but that the work that has already taken place will be new. It was like this, so you could just go here in a little background, in the last term, that it was decided to change the commission. The number of committees was reduced to the fact that the committees were more independent of the problems they faced. I'm not sure it worked. In reality, though, what committees are not to be made up of if it is obvious that they belong on some committee but hear directly under a minister. The Home Office also has transport issues, so for example, all cases from the Ministry of Internal Affairs should be carried out. to the General Committee? At any rate, I will contribute as chairman of the council to stress that this case will be one of the priorities involved. I understand that this is a goal for both presidents and hopefully members of the council of others. So I'm very optimistic about the fact that things get done, especially because there's not much weight in the available committees, and it goes through. I love to hear the clear suggestions that have been presented here on what can be done to ensure that the case will finally be settled and finally adopted on the land. It is a disgrace how long it has taken, but joins with what. A senator realizes that, unfortunately, it will not mean that everyone who suffers from disability is allowed to enjoy flowers in the fields despite being more favorable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u197	V.E.G. President. I'm going to allow me to be a bit optimistic about that, despite this discussion about the committees, to finish this matter exactly because the ultimate will is in place. I can't believe we're going to let something like this keep us from accepting something important. On the other hand, I wonder, and will not say this to make matters any more complicated than I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, we need to bear in mind that, as the proposal is said, it does not seem to reach the optional accounting. Iceland signed both the contract and the optional accounting. I feel that the committee that will eventually address the issue must consider whether this validation is not taking over the entire package, i.e. both to the agreement itself and to the optional accounting. If not, I feel that we need to respond, even though in no way can, of course, be held back in any way. But what matters is that both the contract and the book are under here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u198	A respectable president. It is with great joy that I here refer to a proposal for a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Infirm People. I think we all agree on what we've talked about in this conversation that's been very good, that we don't need to play any raw skin games with the fact that this case has to be over before the end of the council. Of course, it's only in our hands, it's in the hands of the council, it's in the hands of the Committee and the Committee, and it's for us to make sure it's over. This agreement was adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations in 2006, and in 2007 81 people had signed the treaty, and then it has become 166, and the peoples are among the nations that have signed this contract, and now we need to validate it. We need to complete it before the end of the council, and we need to make the most of the evidence available in this matter, as presented here. Then there is the legal adjustment that ensures the rights that disabled persons have been waiting for, and I know that there is great joy in many areas where disabled people live in their homes or communities and have been waiting for that day. I hope we'll live up to making them happy. The objective of this contract is to promote, defend, and ensure that all disabled persons are fully satisfied and equal to all human rights and freedom of man and to promote their natural dignity. In definitions using this contract, including that there should be language, language, language, language, language, language, and other non - language languages. Discrimination means what sort of separation, exclusion, or limitation because of disability. I've talked here about the problems of deaf people who don't get books to learn at school. That's the end of it. It will be illegal to let it happen again, as it has often been before. It's against discrimination with this contract, and we'll respect it. Full and active participation in the community without separating for all, equal opportunities, equal access, equal equality between men and women. Member States commit themselves to ensure that all human rights and freedoms will be fully realized for all disabled people without any form of discrimination because of their disability. We're talking about welfare for everyone. Then I say to all of us: I declare my joy with this matter. I express my joy with the way the senators have spoken here today, and I'm especially going to thank the Supreme Court. Secretary of State for bringing this matter into the council. I encourage her and will help her finish this matter by the end of the council. There is nothing else we can offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u199	V.E.G. President. We are discussing a proposal for a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. First, I'd like to agree with someone else why. Councilmen here who have spoken and are delighted to be the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs recommends this matter and brings it into the council. True, time is slow, but we should not stop it from being able to finish it. This has also been shown in the matter of what. Congress officials who have spoken about this as top priority, and we should resolve to complete this important matter. It's like a whisk. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadotir so rightly said, one of the most remarkable human rights covenants ever made, not because there is something new in it, but confirmation of universal human rights. It is true, of course, that it is long ago time to validate this contract and that we have so far lost the view that it would have been accomplished much sooner and here is a matter of Congress. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller has submitted. I'm not gonna argue that we could've done this before. However, a report suggests that we are not on the move before with validation, for this calls for a lot of cooperation. This was a projection plan where a plan was proposed to synchronize text with a change in law between counseling, has been successful. There was then a review of local community social services and law on the affairs of disabled persons. I happen to be in the highest - ranking group of servants. Minister of Social Affairs. At the beginning of 2014, the highest standards were made. Social Affairs minister to that team of workers to review laws on people who are disabled and community service laws. The purpose of the review was also in accordance with the law of implementing a United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. There's a lot of things that have happened along the way that I could pick up something that's been holding that job. This is a powerful group of good people, professionals, who know the system very well and are appointed representatives, including the U.S. government. From the Department of Health, Internal Affairs, Reykjavíkurburg, Akureyritown, National Association of Social Affairs, National Affairs of Development, National Association of older Citizens, Iceland's Environment, and the Church's Department of Help. Perhaps it highlights the scope of such work. We now have a plan for two primes. There may be an appeal to the importance of this factor, i.e. to validate the agreement, that the laws on the affairs of disabled persons have been submitted, or that new laws have been proposed, and then changed laws on community social services, change laws, in line with the changes or novels presented in the laws on the affairs of disabled persons. That's where the contract has been held all the time. Here we go to the work of this body of workers in a paper with the Senate resolution form on page 6. 6 that describe the work and, in part, what had to be done before the validation came. It's all right here, and maybe not for the first reason. to carefully review what new references we will see in these laws and in accordance with the United Nations Convention as here all as a supplement, which includes new references to user contracts, user-controlled personal assistance, which, of course, are self-defined human rights and is a system we have been developing, a specific leisure service for disabled children and counselors to children with a high level of mental and mental illness. At the same time, there is a concordat of services performed to disabled people and the social services I entered, which are sharpening all the public services rendered on the basis of social services. This is very important. There are sections that deal with social home service and tourism. There are also some new recommendations that deal with user councils for those groups who use the local community service, as well as with the advice to set up a consultation committee on the affairs of disabled persons. There is then a very complex interaction that involves housing, but as we know, the changes in housing conditions had to be carefully considered. As far as one respectable president is concerned, we are at this time point here, and the staff is working very hard on a report with these two primes and going through hearsay, so there should be no basis for laying the prime points for a new assembly. At the same time, I think it's okay for the report to reason that we should take the step to the full now. I'll take my heart out with all those things. The members of the council here have spoken that this is very important because it can be said to be a road trip. It's a journey we're on, not some final stop to validate the contract. We must always be ready to achieve a measure of human rights, guarantee equal opportunities and equal access to monuments, and participate in community involvement. Then it is important that we take this step to the full and then add to the needed adjustment and adjustment of the law and order to the people in need. I'm not going to keep this further, a respectable president, but I'm going to insist that it's important that we finish this now before the end of the council. The address of this case has only been discussed in which committee. It was shown in the answers and the answers. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller. paritaprevir The fact that this was even at home would help Árnadóttir's daughter, who would speed the situation up if it were to catch up. State Department. I'm not going to judge it, but if there's any information I'm gonna use, I'm gonna back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-13-151.u200	A respectable president. I'm glad we agree on what's going on, and I'm glad we're all alone with the one person who lives here tonight. It is a very important milestone victory in the rightfulness struggle of disabled people. I would like to mention some progress that has taken place in this environment in recent years to form the General Assembly plan of Action since 2012 on disabled people and the laws of rights for disabled persons who were approved in 2011, the system of rights, the system of personal spokes, and the system of special rightsmen of disabled persons, to name something. I would also like to mention validation of a so-called OPCAT, changes to the legal law in 2015, and a test project called the application of the user - controlled personal assistance in 2011. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson also became very aware of the change and the good progress that has taken place and will take place during this time of election. However, we also look forward to making sure that we completely control the agreement. Further adjustments are needed. There I mention to form a bill for the legal treatment of disabled persons, for example, changes in local social services laws, anti-discrimination regulations, and bill to legalize an independent rights institution. I look at what we're doing here tonight, by accepting this synoptic proposal and validating the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, so that we are further activating the power of those involved in this struggle. I think it's really important that we accept this. That's why I take my heart to the motion as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Kristján Möller suggested that the case be referred to the State Department because it allows us to apply the reviews that have already been made and if that makes us speed it up, I'll be delighted. Then I'd like to end my case by saying that I refer to this council proposal. Foreign Affairs.
