ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u1	Stefán Gunnlaugsson, former member of the council, died on Wednesday, March 23, at the Hafnarfnarfjörður in Hafnarfjörður. He was 90 years old. On December 16, 1925, Stefán, Sigurður Gunnlaugsson, was born in Hafnarfjörður. His parents were Gunnlaugur Stefánsson, a baker, and later a merchant there, and his wife, Snjólaug, Guðrún Árnadóttir to a housewife. Stefán completed a test from Iceland's Versailles School in 1945. After a year's work in U.S.A., he left for high school in London and Exeter, England, for three years. After his training, in 1949, he became a representative of the government's insurance agency. But politics, as well as the Logistics of Hafnarfjörður, were the minds of Stefán all, as were many others in his family in הkrat town, as he was often called. Back home from school, he became the president of the Society of Young Coalitions at Hafnarfjörður 194991951, was elected in the Central Government of the Democratic Party in 1950, and the council's Council of Hafnarfjörður 1950-1954. After 1954's district election, Stefán Gunnlaugsson, a mayor of Hafnarfjörður, was only 28 years old, and he served that work for two terms, until 1962. He was back elected to the 1970's town government and was then a one-time term as well as the president of the town government during that time, to 1974. Along with the mayor's work, Stefán was on various committees of town and corporate governments. In 1962, Stefán began his business service and was contacted by exports. In 1982 he took over a client's office at the London embassies in Iceland and held it for five years. During his final years of service, 1987,1991, Stefán worked in the Department of State Exports. During the 1971 General election, Stefán Gunnlaugsson became a member of the Institute of the Common Party as a representative of the Hybrids. He spent one elected period until the summer of 1974, in three legislatures. Stefán Gunnlaugsson grew up and worked long in Hafnarfjörður, where the common tribe once had its strongest stronghold. There he set himself up as a zealous visionary and was chosen as a young man for the lead. He was a man of wisdom and of kindness, supporting those who were in palaces. He was clean and forthright with all his companions, unwieldy in language, and always rejoicing in his own. From his youth up until the end of his life, politics was his main interest. And how happy he was that his three sons, Finnur Torfi, Guðmundur Árni and Gunnlaugur, took up residence at the General Assembly for the People! I pray to the assembly to remember Stefán, son of Gunnlaugsson, former general, by rising from his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u2	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary Party for the 1st. Witchest. "Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, be absent at the next time in public affairs. So today, at the General Assembly, he is serving as a deputy of the 1st Class Apostle in the District, Sigurður Páll Jónsson. Sigurður Páll Jónsson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work. Borist has a letter from the 3rd. We're out of Suðvest. "Rangnhök Ríkharðsdóttir, "that she can't attend a meeting next time. So today, the World Council 1 is a member of the Independence Party list in the District, Óli Björn Kárason. Óli Björn Kárason has once sat at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u3	A respectable president. I would like to use this opportunity in the beginning of this meeting to express surprise at the meeting schedule today. There have been a lot of news about Iceland's government and confidence in the prime minister of the country. The nation is almost heartbroken over the news of the last days and weeks, and all over the world are pictures of the highest. Prime Minister in company with many of the world's strangest and fiercest dictators. Iceland lives in one Western democracy where the presidents of the government of that country have money for their taxes. I would have thought it normal for a meeting to start with a report at the highest level. The prime minister of this position and his respect for the nation and the council to come and lay the cards on the table and open a general debate over these matters. I must declare that there is more serious concern on the part of the government on this very serious matter now, where national honor is at stake, and the leaders of the governments do not seem to accept their responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u4	A respectable president. The news of the day, not only in Iceland, but in the whole world, is that there is one Western national leader on the list of political leaders who store money in taxes, and that is the highest. Prime Minister of the Icelanders. No wonder the Icelanders are disappointed today, for there has become a serious trust between the rulers and the public in this country. The General Assembly of the Icelanders needs to discuss how we and the Icelandic community are going to cope with this serious loss of trust to the highest level. The prime minister chose not only to store his family's money in a tax crisis but also to conceal it. Sure, I'll join you with a bang. paritaprevir Páll's aged Árnason, it would have been better if he did so. The prime minister would have presented himself with a report and an explanation for his language. But maybe it's too late for an explanation after that interview as the highest level. During the day of the media, the prime minister showed little humility in the matter. [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's too late for an explanation, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u5	A respectable president. Today, it is a serious step to enter the council. Icelandic politics are in a severe crisis. After the fall of 2008, peace formed over the entire community that we built up, let our credibility and honesty be our mark, try to restore credibility to the world's eyes after what happened. What has been evident in these last days, and especially yesterday, is that not everyone was on that journey. The nation's greatest rulers have been buried in secretism. It's a serious government crisis we're in. I must say that starting a council meeting without the highest degree is very unusual. Prime Minister will report on this unprecedented position in Icelandic politics. [[The president calls.]] It's a tough situation, not just for the highest. The prime minister and for us senators, wherever we sit, holds the whole nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u6	President. I agree with my friends who have expressed dissatisfaction that this meeting did not start with a report from the highest level. Prime Minister for the unprecedented position we are in as a nation, the unprecedented position we are in toward the world around us. It is often that you do not really see yourself until you look through the eyes of others, and that is what we experienced yesterday. The Icelandic people experienced that they were dishonored through the highest force. Prime Minister of the Republic. I must say, I am most disappointed. The prime minister has not already declared his intention to resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u7	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister is a window of trust. That's very serious. It's not only serious for the public in the country, it's also serious for the commercial interests of us Icelanders. When it's at the top. A government is in the form of an Icelandic government today that damages business interests. Trust and confidence and a positive image have positive merits, an advantage in business. However, it is extremely negative when the face is the face of the highest form. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The government is today. In order not to harm the interests and commercial interests of the Icelanders, this government must be removed. V.E.G. Before the damage occurs, the prime minister must resign quickly. That must be done immediately, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u8	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u9	A respectable president. It may be true that it is too late for explanations. This may be correct in view of the best reaction. The prime minister who interviews himself and chooses the media to speak with is not expected to receive an explanation from the Allied Council of Iceland. But it is Generalis to take sides to determine whether the situation is acceptable, it is Generalis to take a stand on a proposal of distrust, a proposal for a breach, and a proposal for an election. V.E.G. Prime Minister has time to step aside, the government has time to pack up before this proposal is due. A respectable president. It's a long way ahead of Iceland to restore our trust in ourselves, the rest of Iceland. All Icelanders must be concerned about the position that has come up and is the responsibility of the present government class.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u10	A respectable president. Sometimes I don't quite understand this room. It's just so obvious. We are here with a prime minister who has been exposed to deception. He has violated government laws, against the Code of both the government and the council. He is one Western government leader who is now on the front page of a foreign magazine for having a family in the tax industry during a time where there is a serious international battle against taxes. Do you need to discuss how obvious it is that a prime minister should use this opportunity now and come up here and show that he has the nation's best interests at heart and resign? Is it complicated? I'm here to announce to the President's conference board that the executives will come up here and explain how this is assessed in the wrong way and in the highest degree. The prime minister has some compensation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to see it. In Iceland and in front of the world, we're going to make this pass, that the General will continue to sit here as nothing is, that the government is going to continue as nothing. And the highest. Prime Minister simply says: "The Nazi. Give me some mistrust. It's no big deal, then we can talk about the government. Will members of the board come up here and defend this behavior and defend this situation? What's the plan? Senators of the United States board to tell foreign officials who come here and why? Are we going to let this happen? Really? Really? A respectable president. This situation isn't working. After that, how much. Prime Minister has behaved in the media today when you are even more stumbled than you thought you might be. This is completely unacceptable. This isn't working. [[The president calls.]] That's the best. As with most others in this matter, the prime minister cannot come here to answer a request for this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u12	A respectable president. You were expecting the highest. The prime minister would see his dignity in making a request for the beginning of this meeting. He hasn't. The second possibility would have been one of the times when he would have been prepared to report to the council and represent his case. It's not in the situation either. This is more important than tears, the situation that exists today, the customs that have become in politics, and unfortunately it is the highest. The prime minister will bring the nation down with him, the nation's reputation. Of course, that is a serious matter, the reputation that we have experienced on a global scale by means of the prime minister. What will this mean for the nation's professional, economic, business agreements, the reputation that has become today? Hadn't been any better, now that we were getting up from the area after the crash. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. Prior to that day, the prime minister is to see his own respect in resigning.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u13	Mr. President. I watched the luxuriant Castlight show in a group of Iceland friends at Thors Harbor in the Faeroe Islands last night. This is one of the most tragic land fairs I have witnessed, and it is more tragic than words say that the land is again internationally a reflection of what actually bears witness and our prime minister in this association. Our friends there in Faeroe Islands, as well as probably everywhere else, were not entertained. They felt that Iceland appears in this way around the world. I believe that early response and minimal response are immediate resigning by prime minister. Then the rest must be discussed, how else can you work out this sad situation? Or should we consider the difference between what situation Iceland is compared to France, where François Hollande celebrates the leaks, commends the researchers, and promises that these data will be used to track down those who make use of the tax industry? [[The president calls.]] What position did we want to be as a nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u14	President. I agree with the people here who have wondered that a council meeting is about to begin as if nothing ever happened. It must be considered normal. As soon as the people and the people who chose him and chose his affairs, the prime minister makes a world of Congress, not just radio talks he chooses, and decides who he will speak and when. I also must join my party sister Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir and ask the prime minister to resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u15	Mr. President. The dance around the golden calf has often led many to stumble. Now it looks like the highest. The prime minister intends to dance to Tortoludans, and he will not have the wisdom to set aside in spite of all the information available, and he has kept secret for the nation and the council since his office. Men would be more men if they realized that it was enough. That men should rise before their own prominence and self - lust for power and go aside to try to save what may be saved and show respect for the nation, for the highest ruler of the nation cannot suffer thinking that he could sit down with such a reproach as he seems to have done. All I believe is that an honest member of the management team sees that this is not going to work. We are working our way out of a crisis in which we are trying to regain confidence between people in this country. [[The president calls.]] This will not be done by prime minister in power.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u16	V.E.G. President. Prime Minister must resign. Iceland's reputation and interests are at stake because of prime minister's activities. Worse yet, or should I say better, Mr. President, it is that the Panama leak has shown that Iceland is merely accompanied by two European states on the morality of the government, Ukraine and Russia. Icelanders won't accept a government like this. Mr. President. I'm disappointed that this program has been set up as if nothing ever happened. In my opinion, there is no basis for conference until prime minister leaves, and we take our advice from here on and preparing an election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u17	V.E.G. President. It is fairly strange to come to the council after the end of Easter break and to be scheduled as if nothing had happened, as if nothing had happened. I don't think it's just us. Councilmen in the smaller part, who are surprised by this, but this is the whole nation. I think, I just realized, or straightened out, after the collapse of the economic breakdown and the self - image of the nation. I'm afraid we're back where we started. We found out that we had the Castlight Mountain last night. I am so disappointed at the height of my joy. The prime minister has not already resigned. I'm just hoping that before this meeting ends today, it's going to be the greatest. Prime Minister has resigned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u18	A respectable president. I think that when all of us in this room made a decision to make a decision by volunteering to the U.S. Marshals, it wasn't for this sort of thing to happen. We volunteered because we were going to do good things for our people. We were going to work at building an interesting future for young Icelanders. We were going to work on creating a viable society that everyone could live in with dignity. But the situation is so serious in this case, as the representatives and members of every class have been declaring in the media this morning that it is completely different that the president should offer us a program for inquiry as if nothing ever happened. This is a matter we must discuss. It's the minimum. Prior to the council, the prime minister gives a report and reviews the issues presented on the television program last night and the discrepancies made in his statements and what was presented there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u19	A respectable president. I agree with what has been said that the prime minister must, of course, resign. I had no idea that a meeting would be in this format. I thought it was the highest. The prime minister would take this step before a meeting. To a large extent, I think it's about our national credibility. If the highest. The prime minister will continue to sit, realizing that he is harming Iceland. He causes the nation to be troubled and disturbed. He must ask himself, " Is it worth it? ' The office isn't his. The secretary's office is not his. These are amazing times. You didn't see it coming when a man came in to the council. But I'd like to agree with your training to the highest level. Minister to resign the first, because every minute passing is awkward.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u20	A respectable president. I've often asked myself the last winter I've sat here at a council whether I really live in a Western democracy. I think what we discovered last night is not true. Iceland is under capital control and it's not something I'm going to accept. With the permission of a president, it may be appropriate to cite a statement that set the end of a miserable period in American political history: ◯ Have you no respect, sir? Is not there really a sense of dignity left? A respectable president. Those words are directed to the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u21	A respectable president. The lights of the world now turn to Iceland. Everybody's looking at Iceland. How does Iceland intend to solve the situation? How do we work this out? What will the Council do? What will the president of Generalis do? How did we regain the respect of the politics of Iceland? What will the government of Iceland do to regain the respect of the government? What will the advance group do about their affairs? How will the advance group work out the situation? What will the Independence Party do in their situation, which is very serious? The situation is so serious that there is nothing less in the situation than to get these questions to the nation. Now you have 25 pulses. a man who signed a challenge to the prime minister to resign. The claim is a simple, dignified president: An election immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u22	President. The disgraced Sigmunds of Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, supreme. Prime Minister, to the council, dishonored Sigmunds of Davíð, Gunnlaugsson of Gunnug, supreme. Prime Minister, to the people who chose him, the disgraced Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, to his company, dishonored Sigmundur, the son of Davíð, the son of Gunnul. Prime Minister, to journalists who are doing their work demeaning the highest. The prime minister of King Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, to the interests of the nation is so clear that it is not at the height of his pleasure. Ministers continue to sit at the Council. The people must get this minister to deal with the confidence and therefore to respond to mistrust, so the minister's immediate resignation is called. The General will not be able to function as if nothing is yet while we are living in this crisis. [[The president calls.]] It is quite clear, President, that we cannot have a traditional meeting during the time of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister sits in the hall. That's clear. [[The president calls.]] Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, tell him you're here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u23	Mr. President. It's a sad day, but there's really no other way to put it. Not only are we here to express our concern over the position of prime minister to the office and to ourselves but a large part of the nation already described it, including themselves. in the media around the world. That's somehow not one thing, that's all that's under there. It's the most serious thing, I think, to the highest. The prime minister thinks it is acceptable to store money in a country that has been classified as a tax land, no matter how often the highest. A minister insists that he and his wife did not keep money in the tax land. [[Up front.]] It's just not his to decide which country falls under that definition. The battle to eliminate such things is rife. Meanwhile, the Icelandic government chooses to be involved. We can't accept this, Mr. Honorable President, we've got to interrupt Congress and the resources for the election and the Supreme Court. Of course, the prime minister should see his own dignity in stepping aside, for the good of the nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u24	A respectable president. This is not a traditional political carp here in the councilroom. This is a question of basics and concerns for people of all categories and causes serious concern for people of all categories because they are asked about Iceland's status in the world. Do we have a Western - day democracy, or do we choose a class with the most corrupt lands in the world? It is a sad day, and it is not a secret to me that the prime minister was raised, not the government's opposition, to resolve this situation and to resign. We may disagree on this. But I thought we all agreed to the highest. The prime minister owes him an explanation. But that would be at least a minimum of what we could agree on and that he would use this platform to get up and explain his viewpoint to his people and how these things are. [[The president calls.]] I think it best describes the position of the prime minister that he chooses not to do so, that he does not choose to account for the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u25	A respectable president. Yes, it's a tough step to walk up here and describe the feeling you have, and I know that more people have, if not just the whole nation, that you've been humiliated. A whole nation has been humiliated. The prime minister, by not telling us the truth, by having money on taxes, by getting on without telling the whole truth, has brought us down. He hasn't told us the truth. My heart's just beating up. I've never experienced anything like this. I'm so upset that people feel all right and the highest. The prime minister has not resigned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He needs to do it right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u26	V.E.G. President. Toward the end of the century and at the beginning of this century, determined efforts were made to establish tax-free areas in Iceland. I'm telling you, it's for sure. Yeah. That's where the government decided to spend 50 million. K. in the cooperation work of the Business Council, or Council of Business as it was then, and the government to set up such tax areas. This was protested here in this room. And the OECD also protested. But for a long time in these embers, I remember hearing of a minister who had a fiery speech in Hörp, over silk - covered bankers, who urged that Iceland become such a financial center in the world. That was not the case. On the other hand, it is clear that Icelandic rulers have stepped into this financial environment and more than that, settling in there. That is true of both government leaders. [[The president calls.]] That's a fact. It has also been found that Iceland is connected to 800 of its societies. I'm just saying, it's time to start over, both in this room and in the general society. [[Up front.]] It will be done only by the leaving of the government and our elections for the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u27	The President reminds me of why. The senator should respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u28	A respectable president. The playhouse collapsed last night. It seems that the person who built her does not realize that. Of course, it is so that when president of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of finance, says in a conversation with the media, he is not ready to state that he is supporting the highest level. Prime Minister, the government will be finished if he has to consult with his council in particular before declaring it. It's best for everyone when it's the best. The prime minister, and as a member of the Parliament, a person should name him the highest esteem, does not intend to say by himself that a person is acting with a lack of trust, and that he will be brought here so quickly as to get some answers, some explanation of the fuller silence that comes from the administrative part of this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u29	A respectable president. It seems that the prime minister will sit fast. But I wondered, " What about the members of the board? ' They include people who are upright and upright, people who want a country and a nation well. And although we do not agree on all the matters, in political politics, no one will question the willingness of most rulers to win the country and nation for the most good. Will these senators make sure that the prime minister sits fast? Will they approve of falsehood, deception, moral failure, and the complete trust that has fallen between the council and the nation since this terrible affair? If they care for national interests, they must force prime minister to resign and not be humiliated by the reputation of the country to defend one man's claim. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u30	Mr. President. It is no coincidence that in recent years and all this century at the OECD and in the surrounding contexts of the Norwegian Ministers'field of combating the existence of taxes, the existence of deportation, because the existence of taxes undermines what we call in our day the welfare of communities. It also undermines democracy. Our communities are based on democracy and all of us share in society and have an impact on society. How will the Icelandic rulers who in this government have signed commitments in the area of OECD to stand before their colleagues and champions in this field, the group we want to belong to, a group of Western democrats, and explain that we have signed a commitment to eliminate taxes but are so surprised to be deeply involved in them personally? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How does Icelandic rulers plan to do this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u31	V.E.G. President. It's with great sorrow in my heart that I come up here under this team today for the President's conference board. A man's grief is that eight years after the collapse, we will sit here at the General Assembly with a prime minister who is absolutely trusting. I'm sorry. I don't carry anything to the highest level. Prime Minister, the trust is the most important thing to any politician or any human in, for it is what holds communities together. When it breaks down, the communities begin to fall apart. That's exactly what's going on with us Icelanders. The society is breaking apart. I challenge the highest. Prime Minister to consider resigning, not primarily for his own sake, but for his family, the nation of the whole government, and his campaign. That's all you can do in this situation because it's not welcome, unfortunately. But I restate on the fact that there is much grief in a man over this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u32	Mr. President. I made our reputation and position in the world into talkers, not minimizing the shock we have experienced there. But first and foremost, of course, at the highest. Prime Minister to resign for our own sake as a nation, a democracy and a state of Congress. Like the world around us, we must show ourselves that such things cannot work. I suppose that would be the first and most likely one sentence. Prime Minister if he would immediately speak of himself in an attempt to save land and nation from further harm. It would be appreciated. If not, then the lack of opinion will begin to dominate the land and the whole nation. If the prime minister does not see this and use the opportunity he still has to do it voluntarily, then the council must do so. Because we are responsible, all in this room, for having such prime minister in our country. It's a Senate hearing in Iceland. It's supposed to be a conniving government, and that's why it'll be our lot if it's ours. The prime minister does not have the wisdom to do this himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u33	A respectable president. I described here my surprise at the highest. One prime minister would not have felt embarrassed to come here and report to the council, but my amazement is no less at the lot of the members of the state. Here they sit quietly and give no information or evidence as to why the prime minister should continue to sit. What are you thinking? You think this is okay? Aren't you going to join the nation? What answer will be made to the members of the Commission next year when the Watch Tower Committee, the Council of Europe, comes here for corruption? Well, we just kind of think it's okay. We didn't see any reason to do anything about this. Is it really the balanced view that this is all right? Aren't you going to join the nation? We're waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u34	Mr. President. After the 2008 collapse, there was much work to be done, and a new government came to power. That government was watched from all over the world and saw to it that it worked us out of the collapse, would come in democracies, changed regulations for the financial system, and set moral standards for the elected representatives of the country. Over eight years later, it has turned completely around. Now people are in the same place as they were on the way of the crash and act like nothing's happened. The shame is that this government has not spent the time it has been in power to continue working for democracies and to further the moralization of society and, in particular, politicians. [[The president calls.]] Now these corrupt elements, the cohesive forces of the Agency and the Independence Party, are going to unite when power and greed are involved and not to compromise. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I say, the members of the board of directors who intend to continue supporting prime minister to power, their shame. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u35	Again, the President reminds me of what happened. Councilmen are to respect deadlines. They apply to all members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u36	A respectable president. It's started again, the drum beating in the East Field you hoped you wouldn't hear again soon. It comes back to mind a very famous sign from the stock market revolution, from the time of the crash. It said, with president's permission: That's how I feel. I feel like the work many people have been doing with honesty in building up the confidence of this country, building faith, building up a community - all that work is a mess right now. We have the world's most famous financier on the front cover of all the magazines these days. He's sitting here, the highest. Prime Minister, best known for that... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u37	The president asks why. A senator guarding his word.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u38	...to have your money in taxes and what does that mean? Let us ask ourselves a question of conscience: Do we remember that all Icelanders have their money in Tortula? [[The president calls.]] Why not? Why is it so bad? [[The president calls.]] Why can't we get to the top? Does that clearly not make prime minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u39	The President wants to make a decision to what he said here, that he asks why. Councilmen guard their words and do not resort to disparaging remarks in their speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u40	A respectable president. What are we talking about when the order comes from the President's chair not to be lenient here at the Senate Hall? What are we discussing here in this society? The last two weeks and all this terms, and longer than that, have the highest. Prime Ministers keep their interests secret for the nation. Last night, the whole world looked at him trying to lie because he had nothing to do with this company. He became involved in outright lies on television. It's being watched all over the world. Shall we take care to observe our comments here in a speech chair at the Council, a respectable president? Is that the main thing? Every minute that goes by without anything happening in the Iceland government damages the reputation and image of Iceland on a global scale. Let us be careful first.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u41	Mr. President. I must agree with the last speaker because our people are both grieving and bowed down. This is not a political hatred or something that is being presented here. There is a moral breakdown in society if this is tolerated. Of course, prime minister should see fit to step aside. There's no essential, not the highest. Prime Minister rather than the rest of us. I just don't think he has the confidence that more of the nation to do so. I don't think the people trusted that government to handle the huge issues ahead of them and have to go on. There are good people in all categories, all of whom agree, who I trust do not support the current prime minister to the future. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It is good to mention, when talking about the debate, that not long ago, a senator was condemned here just for mentioning an ethnic society on his name, and there were quite a number of members who spoke well of that senator and including the highest. President. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u42	A respectable president. I'll think of every senator at the Allied Council of Iceland, the oldest assembly in the world. It is probably the greatest moment of all of us when we enter this hall the first time and sign an oath to the Iceland Constitution, where we promise to work honestly for a national economy. We promise to act well, speak truthfully in our work, and rise above our own person as representatives of the public who have chosen us here to work. It is quite a grief in my heart to experience the ultimate. The prime minister is drawing that feeling into the area. I don't see how it's done for us generals. Prime Minister is sweet in office. [[The president calls.]] I'm not happy to feel that way. My whole body hurts like I've suffered a shock. [[The president calls.]] It's a bad feeling. And I'm sorry, I sense that people are experiencing this feeling all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u43	Mr. President. The government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon has put down the office of a special prosecutor, set aside funds for the Council's emissary, did not extend a wealth tax, and dropped hunting fees. Now it's been found to be the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance are the owners of two of the 800 companies owned by Icelanders according to the Panama Documents. It has also been observed that Iceland is a special member of the high share of property in tax industry. The rest of us are going to break free from the slavery that the Tortolate has imposed on us. We can't accept living in such a corrupt country. Mr. President. This is not a meeting option. [[The president calls.]] Prime Minister must resign, and the election must be launched immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u44	President. It's kind of quiet out here. It's not just silence. The prime minister who refuses to appear on the platform and give an overview of the events that we see today and what its general situation is but rather the intense silence of everyone from the independent party and all from the forward party. What do they think? What do my independent and forward groups think of my fine members? They think it's okay? Is it all right that the country's prime minister is on the front page of every magazine with Pútín and Ukraine president? Is that okay with us?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u45	A respectable president. It is impossible to understand that members of the management body choose to remain silent in the chamber under these circumstances. Perhaps it would be best for us all to keep our mouth shut. I think that's how many of us feel. And even if I had wanted to see a prime minister give the nation a report, since he felt that he had reason to remain in office when this meeting was arranged, it may also be possible to understand that he is sitting here quietly trying to keep his mouth shut. But that must be said to both the highest. Prime Ministers and all members of the board that they will not remain silent through this scandal. Men can keep their mouth shut for a day, and they can keep their mouth shut for two days, and they can't keep their mouth shut for three days, but they won't be able to keep their mouth shut. [[The president calls.]] This is far too serious for that. Prime Minister must shoulder his responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u46	V.E.G. President. The Icelandic people thought they were on the straight track. I think the world thought so too. But we were thoroughly reminded last night, so there isn't. Here, lying corruption continues to thrive. Work to rebuild trust in Iceland is now over, at least if you do not change and make changes quickly. Of course, the best would be if it were the best. The prime minister would see his dignity in his resignation, but if he did, there is nothing more in the situation than that the General concluded to express distrust at the highest level. Prime Minister and the order to be announced to the election immediately. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, saying, This matter cannot be held to death. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u47	A respectable president. During the last few days, I've heard the highest talk. The prime minister speaks of his sacrificing and saving the nation of Icelandic Israel. It is often a temptation for politicians to do a lot of work, but, of course, reality is not that simple. There is no one human who is the beginning and ends of everything politically. It's not like that. I want to come up here because I think it's important to get to the top. Prime Minister knows that the nation can totally save itself without him. Now the situation has become so that the prime minister no longer has confidence. Like what? paritaprevir Páll Björnsson explained earlier that trust is of utmost importance in Polish and Ministers who have no trust. It's just that way. V.E.G. A minister may decide to stretch it for an hour or a day, but the fact is that it is over. [[The president calls.]] The sooner he or his companions sees themselves, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u48	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's granddaughter, who came up here earlier. The sooner the better. It's one of the weirdest meetings I've ever been to. It's like some social event that just has to come to an end. This isn't working anymore. It's interesting that now that we've been discussing this matter for an hour, we've been talking to the government. No commander has come up and expressed his opinion, either by or by. Perhaps it is evidence that people are thinking about it. I encourage people to ask themselves if they feel all right. Is this just to go on like this? If it is, we can just stop. It's just a charade. It is beneath the dignity of all of us to participate in such things that the Icelandic people deserve better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u49	Mr. President. The photo of the highest. Last night, the prime minister in Kast Light Show was very bad, and on screens and in homes of people around the world was depicted as the highest figure. Prime Minister of Iceland in very bad company. I thought, " Nothing can ever be like politics after this. ' V.E.G. Of course, the prime minister will resign, and the rest of us will begin working to minimize the loss. V.E.G. President. If we act like nothing's wrong, we'll let it go. Prime Minister to drag all the politicians in Iceland into this bad association. We can't let that happen. If the highest. The prime minister does not look well at himself in resigning, so we in this chamber must make sure that he does so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u50	A respectable president. It's sad for everything. It's not embarrassing anymore. During the past two weeks, it has been said here that this situation is embarrassing, but it is tragic. The light of the world is in Iceland. According to recent news, 75 television stations have asked RUS to broadcast live from East Field in an hour. There's so much interest in this. V.E.G. Our prime minister had property in his tax pocket. We cannot allow ourselves to do so. It's not working. Pride is falling and all, but sometimes I feel like I'm in a rutunda by Sófókles. I don't quite know if there's something to rejoice over, rather the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u51	V.E.G. President. Every day, we teach our children that everyone makes mistakes. Some are minor, but others have dramatic results. We teach our children to shoulder responsibility and what it means to shoulder responsibility. It is to admit the mistake, try to make up for it, and, above all, to try to learn from them, not to deny the mistakes, not to try to justify them, and not to blame others. Unfortunately, it seems to be the highest. The prime minister did not learn this lesson. I challenge him to consider carefully the position he is in, for the mistakes he has indeed made are dramatic. I'm not the only one who feels that way. There are thousands of people coming out here, and the whole nation agrees that he made a big mistake. I think the highest. The prime minister did the whole nation a huge favor by stepping aside and even making an election. If not, he should at least step aside in an effort to make peace in the community. I think there's a lot of consequences if he doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u52	A respectable president. Yesterday and today we have Iceland, with the highest. Prime Ministers on the front page of the world press are in a slightly negative light. I don't have to go over it. At the same time, the highest will be determined. Mr. President to set up a discussion about plastic wrappings and evaluating production, all in good order, but we should be discussing the position of the world's press. We should show that we take seriously the situation. It's all about credibility. The credibility of this government rests, the credibility of a Icelandic business life depends on, the credibility of the Council, the credibility of the Icelandic nation. He's under all of this. The way we respond to it is important. In such circumstances, when credibility has been so desperate, we, if we don't mind, have to stop, interrupt this council, and announce an election.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u53	A respectable president. I feel that the silence from the management forces has become very screaming. In fact, she was screaming some time ago. I wonder what's wrong. Directors predict how the members of my body should react. If it's not a problem, we should just say, "Oh, no, no, it's taxes, it's a woman's social security number, something like that, and leave it there? Remember, please. If such a matter were raised by a minister who was not in their order, will the members of the board do so? Do they remember? It wouldn't be the plot of the day, would it? Or what? Should we be ashamed to be ashamed of this matter? What should we members of our section say to foreign journalists who ask us, "What is going on in this country? " Shall we say, "Yes, no, you misunderstand all of this, my dear foreign journalists." We're fine. You're the ones that's getting the wrong idea. Is that what we're supposed to say, a respectable president? This has become a total fool's game, a respectable president. It's been a fool to the Allied and Icelandic people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u54	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Industrial and Business Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers and Marine Elimination and Agriculture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u55	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. Prime Minister. National honor is now at stake. The honour of this institution, the General Assembly of Iceland, is at stake. We have been proud, Icelanders, to boast of the unprecedented democracy and of the oldest National Assembly in the world. Now it is our political identifying mark on the international scale to own one Western president with property as a tax treasure. I'm going to the top. The prime minister here and now to apologize for putting her in the position of being placed next to many of the most notorious and stiff - necked dictators in the world? And he's going to go to the top. The prime minister to face the reality of his office?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u56	A respectable president. When it comes to the honour of the nation and of this institution at stake, all of us must try to look after our conduct and take into account the manner in which men walk. Surely, all of us want to talk things out of calmness, honesty, and reasonableness. I don't talk about reasonableness. That's what I'll try to do, a respectable president, on this matter, but I can't fail to make a comment about it at the right time. So a senator falsely argues here on one more trip that I or my wife have owned a tax treasure. It's just not right. This is so wrong. It's been paid taxes from the beginning. A senator knows. And since this is referred to in the foreign media, I would like to commend many to the point that there is specifically no evidence to suggest that the tax was wrong or subjugated in this matter. We must agree on the general situation in this hall that it is important for people to take advantage of the opportunity that is now in many lands just to avoid tax collections, to eliminate real tax control. Various countries have been called tax seats. Sweden has been called a tax host because money has been stored there without giving up in their own country. It's like a sledgehammer. In this discussion about the President's meeting board earlier, a body of taxes was defined, not by which country is represented, but by whether people really pay all the taxes they owe and pay to their community, a respectable president, to pay taxes to their own community. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u57	A respectable president. I don't think it's anyone's pleasure. Whether under a tax cover or behind his wife, the prime minister takes refuge. This isn't about her. It is about decisions he has made, information that he has hidden, and laws that he has at best ignored. These are the facts. They understand hundreds of reporters working on this matter these minutes. I reiterate the question to the highest. Prime Minister and add: Is he not ashamed to have brought Iceland into this group? Would he not apologize at least?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u58	A respectable president. Iceland is among the countries that are now being considered to be particularly needed to consider the issues of taxes and whether they have a new tax cover, because there was an abnormally large banking and financial system in the years prior to a collapse, which, to a large extent, proposed to their customers such an arrangement. That's why these matters are being discussed in Iceland. And why are we and people in other parts of the world discussing these matters? Isn't that right, Mr. Honorable President, because this is about the question about taxes, is it about whether a person's standing up, whether he goes to the community, and preferably his own community? That's what this discussion is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u59	Mr. President. Yesterday, the Icelandic people saw an interview at the highest level. The prime minister, who was asked directly whether he had anything to do with deportations. The interview can be read in an Icelandic translation of mbl.is for those who did not see it yesterday. V.E.G. A prime minister there said that he had worked for Icelandic companies that might have been linked to societies. In fact, even this was true of the labor movement, and then it was an unusual question. Then it was the highest. Prime Minister directly asked what he could say about the company of Wintris. V.E.G. The prime minister said: Uh, it's a company, if I remember correctly, which is linked to one of the management companies, and it had a business account, as mentioned earlier, that has been listed as a tax report since its establishment. I just want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Why didn't you say your wife was Windris's? Why didn't you just say it the way it is? Why didn't you just tell the truth in this interview?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u60	A respectable president. I'm not going to argue that my performance in this interview was to be imitated or to start doing it here, though there is reason to put things in context, in what manner this was meant, to explain how I answered, the answers based primarily on surprise, and to try to figure out what was going on. However, the very nature of the possession of that enterprise is quite premised. There's a senator asking for something. I said some things in panic, I think I may quite be called, a respectable president, in this interview while I was trying to figure out why the discussion had suddenly become quite different from what had been foretold. For example, I mentioned what is known to be the fact that the pension fund, and the labor movement in some respects through them, have many possessions recorded in many lands. This was the last one that appeared a few days ago in the media. And even the heads of the labor movement would have been in the control of such associates. So in no way will I try to say that I was clear in the way that I put things away in that interview as well. A senator asks about. The facts of the matter, however, are clear, as I have explained in fact, you have an interview when the matter was finally being discussed. The point is, this is a company owned by my wife. This taxation has always been paid, and since we were equal, a husband and wife have also shown it on my tax returns.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u61	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister has apologized for having acted badly during an interview. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister here points out that he tried to point out in a different direction than to tell the truth in this interview: Is it not a perfectly normal requirement that we as citizens in this country must all make prime minister of us, our national leaders, that he is simply telling the truth even when questions arise? Is that not a natural requirement for those in authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u62	A respectable president. Of course, their telling the truth is a natural requirement for those in authority. This is a natural requirement for all members of Congress and a natural requirement for people in general to be truthful. And neither I nor my wife have had, as I explained, a tax treasure. At the same time, a respectable president, how - and I've made a thorough account of that for some time ago - holding an property in this society was being handled and property that it held. There's no other way to reiterate what I said before, of course, when I didn't know where to go, but I wasn't trying to distract myself because as soon as this company was asked about it and clearly where it was going I was going, I was definitively with the nature of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u63	A respectable president. I direct my inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister. V.E.G. Prime Ministers and I share in coming into politics rather unexpectedly after the 2008 economic collapse and under the mark of reform in Icelandic Polish. Unlike it, I experience our understanding of reform or customs in Icelandic politics. I'd like to direct it to the highest level. The prime minister's experiences are of his association with members of the Senate's interest registration, with the Minister's ethics, which he expressed to us from this chair over a year ago, in effect, in supporting interests, in the pursuit of employment in the case of delinquency. It's under the roof. Is it normal for the prime minister to have such rules only when he seems appropriate?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u64	A respectable president. There are, of course, general rules on the identity of members of this body. In fact, in the last days, there have been significant discussions that I have followed those rules. There is no expected record of a mate's property, but there is also the possibility that there will be no registration of property, such as bonding. So it can be wondered, a respectable president, whether I should have, unlike all other members of Congress, to make a special account of my wife's property or to make a special account of other property items that are expected to be recorded in the Senate interest logs. It may well be, I admit, we should ask ourselves, " Is there any reason to register more than I am now, register even spouse property, record debts, list more? ' But the main point, a respectable president, is that the rules have been followed and that members, who have certainly had, not just family interests, but great personal interests in the great decisions made in these last few years, have not seen reason to make such a special account - hopefully, a respectable president - beyond the obligation to do according to the opinion of members of Congress. But let me reiterate that I am open to discuss all the possibilities to expand this registration and to evaluate it with members of Congress what is a reason to record and what is not, and whether the issues we've been discussing today will give us a new light and give us reasons to expand our registration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u65	A respectable president. I want less than ever. The prime minister says that he sat at a council in 2009. According to the information we received from the TV last night, he was the owner of a company located in a tax car and owned property elsewhere. We have also received information that this Society was later one of the demanding banks. So I have to say, this attitude on registration and the feds surprises me and kind of gives me a little bit of a nudge. We must not forget that these rules are not just about us sitting here at the Council today. We're laying the line in Icelandic politics, not only for today, but also the criteria for what is going to happen in the future, decades into the future. [[The president calls.]] Exceeding at the highest. ▪ The fact that this situation can, rather than lower its standards, open up more irregular promises in the future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u66	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite understand the last question. Senator on what change... [[...down the stand.]] By registration? A respectable president. First, some of the questions were why. Senator. In fact, it is, as has been explained - and I dread it. Of course, members and others to study the detailed explanations that have been given to many of the questions that are being raised today - that of the properties involved, although stocks have been registered to me for a time, they do not agree with this interest log. Or a respectable senator might point out that this stock, written on me for a time before it was corrected, was of no value. It was of no value because, as I have previously noted, a respectable president, my wife had all the property of the company and the requirements that were formed by putting them into this company. So the company's stock was not worth a dollar, it's probably of no value.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u67	A respectable president. Of course, my request concerns the matter that we've been discussing all day. Now it can hardly be very controversial that Iceland has requested opinions abroad as a result of news coverage on the top of the case. Prime Minister. No matter how great it is. The minister's answer is to me whether he feels that somehow he needs to respond to those opinions, especially how he intends to do so if he feels the need to do so. I would very much like to have some answers to the question of how we should do so. A minister intends to put it into practice that foreign people understand better how what has been presented here can be normal, not shocking. Everything at its height. A minister can instruct me about these matters is most welcome. But to make the question very clear: The highest number. Ministers need to respond to the opinions of Iceland abroad? And if so, how are you planning to do the highest. Minister's reaction?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u68	A respectable president. Thank you for a good question. There's been a discussion on this matter abroad, like a lot of cases related to the so-called Panama Documents. And I can still see new reports about political, sports, and other issues involved. Regarding the question of reaction. A member of this convention believes that giving correct information is a matter of utmost importance. How important it must be to provide accurate information! It must be important for them to pass on the right and to prove to everyone, from the one involved directly but also from the other polled, to give a frank answer as to what is right and what is not. With regard to international media coverage, they are as different as there are many people. But I would like to reexamine what I mentioned only earlier that it is a pleasure to see that in various media sources, this vast, vast, vast, vast, wide - scale case involving many people in many countries, they have seen reasons to state that nothing in this company was incontrovertible about the tax issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u69	A respectable president. Tells you the highest. Minister that with the answers he has made here at the High General Assembly and in the media, he is able to save Iceland from the imaginary dangers it has experienced? Believes at most. - Is that really a minister? Tells you the highest. Ministers that the foreign attitude, say in Germany or Britain, changes, and suddenly the state's ministers and top rulers are in the state's highest position. The prime minister and his family are concerned with Tortula?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u70	A respectable president. Now I remind you of the root cause of all this, a case that is actually a global case. What's that about? It is primarily about obtaining information to determine whether a person has paid his taxes and his duties. As a result, it is very important to provide accurate information on the issues of Iceland, on the issues related to me or my family and on other issues related to Icelandic politics and businesses. To answer the question about what I think is true in foreign lands, I believe that human beings have always lived up to their community, paid their taxes, and not new possibilities that might have developed to others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u71	Tell that to Merkel.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u72	Iceland collapsed because of political and financial corruption. Then we bound an organization to inform politicians of their interests. V.E.G. The prime minister had a 50% share in Wintris when his interest log had become valid here at the council. It's not worthless. That's a huge interest. There is no doubt about hiding behind his wife. The wealth of the family is considerable. I ask the prime minister: How can he stand in this chair and say that there is information? That there is a secret to informing people? I must also ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will he really stand in this chair and say to the world that Tortoles is not a tax robe? A respectable president. Everyone on Tortula can say that they have returned what they have because there is no way to make sure that it was done. That's why it's a tax bill. Iceland's governor determined that Tortola was a tax officer in 2010. How can a prime minister say that an international tax officer, Tortata, is not a tax host? Will the prime minister in this matter also keep it very cold after all that has happened to be white, black, black, and white? That Tortola is not a tax host and hiding information is providing normal information? I have no concern with the formality of the prime minister's choice to hang himself. Everyone sees that this was a real interest. I must also ask the highest. Prime Minister: Has he never regretted not knowing about this? Has it never occurred to him to simply step forward and apologize and account for this situation? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking, and I think many more will ask the same question.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u73	A respectable president. First, I want to say that I have not been hiding behind my wife. There's something else. I've tried and tried off, and maybe there's one thing I should apologize for, and tried too long to keep her affairs out of political fury. I believe, a respectable president, that it was obviously necessary to plan on discussing her property and finances sooner, although I had the first prince ever since I became involved in politics, not mixing my wife or family in this fierce tribulation. In terms of the tax requirement, I simply pointed out that a respected president of the United States, which I pointed earlier, is a tax host when someone hides property in order to protect them from taxes. Many countries have been referred to as a taxjoke, Panama, Virgin Islands, Britain, which may now be called a tax cow, Cyprus. It is an endless list, a respectable president, of countries that can be named a tax host. Not long ago we talked about Sweden's becoming one of Europe's main taxes because men could get away with holding possessions there. The question is, Do humans take advantage of opportunities in Sweden or Virgin Islands or anywhere else to hide property or to give them their taxes honestly? That question has been answered in this matter. Again with the question of my ownership, I try to explain it again to a respectable senator: The possessions of this club were always with my wife no matter what the way of registration this county because she put her assets in the union and received the same high requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u74	A respectable president. The Prime Minister secreted information about his immense interests, both when he himself was registered for half - worth in the company and after he had been transferred to his wife. Sweden, U.S.A. Prime Minister, your own financial office is not on a tax bill. On the other hand, the British Virgin Islands are among the four states of the 150 states of the world, which OECD considers to be the least and the worst of them all. We must ask if the country's prime minister is going to make yet another effort to come here on the platform and tell us clearly that the Tortolian Islands are not a tax robe. And that it was perfectly natural for him and his wife to choose a kingdom as such secret information that even the less developed kingdoms around the world cannot compare. [[The president calls.]] Why do people choose such a kingdom, a respectable president? [[The president calls.]] It is obvious to everyone, and Prime Minister is pleased to apologize for this. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u75	A respectable president. Here's the deal. A senator strongly implied that my wife or me, as he also said, made a special decision to save this company in this country for some other purpose, to hide something. It has come out, a dignified president, and a number of times, and has been confirmed that it is not. There's never been hidden property in this country. This is simply the arrangement that saw a bank my wife was in business with at the time. And, of course, I would have liked to have been free of it, a respectable president, as if men would have liked to have been so free of so many things that were commonly practiced here in the leading economic crisis. My wife has only lost that kind of possession of her possessions. A respectable president. Let us have what is truly true. The fact is, she has never concealed these assets. [[The president calls.]] It has never benefited from this arrangement, nor has it harmed society in any way, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u76	A respectable president. It's now clear to the highest. Since Sweden is one of the most notorious tax lovers in the world, the prime minister has offered explanations that he has not been prepared to confirm with the media so far. We've heard an tax investigator telling us at a meeting that there is no way his local claim that all taxes have been paid unless people reveal things and open up to all the information. It hasn't been done. The media have not been answered. It is also clear from a statement of the highest magnitude. The prime minister himself wrote with his own free will that he would make a deliberate decision to hide his associates, the Allied Assembly of Iceland and the nation, his interests. He chose not to do so because he felt that it was better not to do so. In other words, he knew that he might have to do so but made a deliberate decision not to do so. All of this calls for a deeper discussion of this subject by the International Parliament. [[The president calls.]] It is impossible for a prime minister to appear here and make statements that cannot be made in any way according to the general statements he has made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u77	A respectable president. After the conversation we had in unprepared inquiries, we asked the highest. Prime Minister, I need to remember how disappointed I am that he did not report his case because there are more questions left than answers. We've been setting protocols for the Generals. There's been a code for Ministers. It's a administrative law, including 2 gr. Government law in Iceland. What seems to be clear is that a prime minister has reported that he has deliberately decided to keep information away so that it would not interfere with his work. I wondered if the rules, regulations, and extramarital rules, control of the rules we have here at the high Council that supervise the Commission are strong enough, and what on earth we can do to strengthen them and respond to this unprecedented situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u78	A respectable president. In an inquiry period just before, it became clear how serious the problem is here in Iceland, where the prime minister's predestination was complete. In every answer, he turned things into his own favor from a perfect lack of pity and hard work. The most outstanding example, though, was when he began to struggle with what appears to be a low tax area or a tax area. According to 57th. track No. 90/2003 with subsequent changes, the minister should provide a list of countries and regions where taxation is being implemented according to this report. There's an official list of low taxes in the financial department. There is a list signed by the U.S. secretary of finance that includes the British Virgin Islands. They are defined as a tax bill by the Icelandic government. [[The president calls.]] To the highest. The prime minister should be reluctant to speak of Sweden as much as he could talk about the confusion, the lack of pity, and the rudeness of the local people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u79	President. This is evident after listening to the highest of things. The prime minister will not answer any questions from members of the council who offered them in a way that is different from the way he is going to sit. This prime minister of Iceland we now live in - we have to live with the consequences of his still sitting, and every minute this prime minister sits here, he will cost us dearly. [[Up front.]] That's clear. You look out here across the Eastfield and there you see a sign. And what does it say? It is clear that people want to take Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson away. This minister is not going to step aside. So the lesser part has put confidence in this minister and all his government. I hope that this proposal will be discussed as soon as I want to hear members of the statesmen. I want the members of the council to represent this man, whom I will never again call the Honourable. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u80	A respectable president. What's at stake here? What are we looking at? I think it's pretty crystal clear after this inquiry class, after this day, that we're looking at a break. What is a moral breach? It's a situation where chaos prevails, everything can be done. Laws and rules mean nothing, have no meaning. Government laws don't mean anything. Although they say you can't come to an administration resolution if you have interests and must report your own interests, they don't mean anything. If they don't have any meaning for the highest. Prime Minister, they mean nothing. He was a demanding worker at the same time who was being negotiated with demanding workers. Then this doesn't mean anything. Our code we just set here means nothing. They say that we should tell about all our interests. Government Codes don't mean anything. This is what we're fighting for here. That law means something, that rules mean something. [[The president calls.]] After that day - and even after that - the highest will try. Prime Minister to argue that a tax host means nothing but - we are in a global struggle to have some meaning, some customs, some social rules. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u81	A respectable president. The General Assembly of the Streets is gathering at the East Field, perhaps hoping later. We've listened to the pride and pride of the prime minister who stands here with a repetitive speech, does not apologize for any created object, is it possible for a body of elders to decide whether he and his family have possessions in the tax industry? We are in the theater of the absurd, respectable President. There is no wise way to reason or to take a moral position in speaking a word of mouth while doing so. They get away with standing before a council and fighting as if in a sandbox, not at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] The nation is gathering outside the General Assembly Hall, a dignified president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She may pronounce her sentence until many do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u82	Mr. President. It's this with the definition of taxes. As I told you before, it's not the ultimate part. Prime Minister to decide which countries belong to taxes. An tax investigator has said that it cannot verify information, but it is a prime minister's defense in its own language. Inveffence wants to the highest. Prime Minister, Viking. Why? Because it is unacceptable that the prime minister of Iceland owns money in a tax crisis and is a demandsant, or his family. Once there was a bang. A senator and a chief. The prime minister of this group went to great lengths, but their reasoning is clearly not suitable for him today. If this is all so innocent, why should these 11 million documents cause so much trouble? Why are the nations interested in Iceland's prime minister? This is because as long as the nation sits here in currency capitals, it has the highest. The prime minister and his vomit determined to bring their money to the taxposts and to tell no one until they were forced to do so. [[The president calls.]] They did not do so voluntarily.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u83	A respectable president. I just have to be surprised at the philosophical exercises in this symposium on when a tax machine is not a tax dress and when a tax dress is not a tax dress. Every country can be a tax bill but just a different amount of tax cover. Then I'd like to quote the Great poet and turn back the words of Jón the son of Hreggviðsson from the Iceland Clock: Fuck that Tortata ain't no tax dress. Oh, no, no, no, There's been a pole built in front of you. Thousands of people are gathered here. Eastfield's full. Under these circumstances, we cannot continue to serve at a council. We have to interrupt a meeting. We need to be able to accept the dissatisfaction because this government is finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u84	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister had an opportunity earlier to explain, even to apologize, but he did not take advantage of that opportunity. Now it's the highest. The prime minister leaves the hall, and in fact, more of the members of the council too. We are left with the fact that at the Council, the discussion is almost like a surrealic drama at the highest level. The prime minister allows himself to come up here and talk about Sweden as a tax robe - no doubt it will still improve our reputation in foreign lands when it is quoted - and does not say that he has heard of the official list published on tax cover and what it means. We cannot even agree on the meaning of the words here. When asked why not simply being told the truth, the answer is: Well, I got so upset that I didn't really know what to say. [[The president calls.]] Then the debate is off, and I'm very worried about that, Mr. President, how the General will handle this conversation, in which every inquiry after another is ignored. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u85	A respectable president. It was interesting to take an interest in that, and I did, trying to understand the answers at the highest. Prime Minister here earlier. I have to say, I didn't understand either up or down. He doesn't speak clearly enough for me, that's just the way it is. He was most impressed to realize that it would be so difficult to have money in Iceland. You can have money on a bank book in Iceland and pay from that capital tax. He's 20%. Why do people who have money choose not to do so? Why does he choose to pay for his money or possessions somewhere else? Is it because there's less taxes? V.E.G. The minister here said that if I heard the truth, the union would be worth more than one dollar. What do you mean? What, then, are these 500 million? [[The president calls.]] What is it? What is this requirement for the Lands Bank? Is it the same as a dollar? I don't understand what's going on here. Prime Minister's gone. In this room are two members of the board, and this meeting is a charade. They're supposed to end a conference as soon as the election starts.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u86	For this reason the president wanted to draw attention to the fact that he was taking the program on three matters and had planned to complete a meeting, but this presented a request to discuss matters under the supervision of the president and, of course, the president was involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u87	V.E.G. President. I was deeply moved when we began a fourth meeting, and I have to say that after hearing the answers, I feel even more sorry for myself. Prime Minister in an unprepared question period. The prime minister's fortification seems to be complete, for he insists on having property in the tax industry and seems to think that he himself can define what is a tax covering. This is completely unacceptable from the very mouth of the highest. Prime Minister, of course, who's so winded up from the Senate Hall. I'm afraid, sir, that considering this strategy, there's not much hope for the highest. The prime minister himself will resign and step aside. Then there is nothing more to be done than for the U.S. Council to take matters into its own hands. To express distrust at the highest level is all you can do. Prime Minister. After today's inquiry period, it is clear that he does not intend to see his own worth in the process of departing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u88	A respectable president. He's gone. Iceland's prime minister has left the Senate Hall. It is an international scandal that has set up Iceland's bench with the most corrupt states of the world. There are media from all over the world to spread news of what happens. It is about an hour and a half, or the length of one movie that discussed this situation should take place in the Congress itself. And the prime minister is gone. It tells us, honorable President, everything that must be said about the prime minister's respect for democracy, for the council and for his role in keeping with the council. Such a prime minister cannot sit in a Western democracy. [[The president calls.]] If we want to continue to be a Western democracy, he must resign.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u89	A respectable president. Out in the East, you can't see a blank spot. He's filled with people who are completely offended, who want to get changes, who want honest politicians, who want elections. These people tell their current government party to get lost. It is not acceptable to the answers it has received in the past few weeks, nor is it incompetent. There are so many questions left today. This, of course, is why we are discussing matters with these individuals. It is our right and the need to do so. We need answers to the best currency - but not to the highest. Prime Minister. There's been no talk of how everyone had to submit to a currency - but not the highest. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]] And the hairpieces as high as any. The prime minister offered here today all the caves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They show that there is no humility - only pride in the highest degree. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u90	V.E.G. President. I can't accept that Iceland is governed by the Totolut. We are left with the discovery that the rulers of the nation have hidden their possessions or have lived with a plan to hide their assets in the tax industry. There are situations that we cannot live in unless we are going to stop calling ourselves a democracies society and make us a permanent list of such countries as Russia and Ukraine. There's about 38 more things here. Not one commander has stood up to protect Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougson, the highest. Prime Minister, at last he hid his interests and lied about his ownership in the company of Tortula. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I wish that the meeting will not be announced until the government's mistrust proposal is established. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I hope it's the best. Prior to that, the prime minister resigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u91	President. If the highest. If I were a minister, I would tell him to set the same standard for himself as he does for others. I watched during the last term during which the current administrative teams were screaming out loud, including the highest. Prime Minister, over the rest, and this, as the government, was referring to. There was no lack of holy zeal in that regard. Now, however, government officials are silent. I say, as it has been done earlier today, that if we turn this around, I'm sure the people who keep quiet today would be yelling. I think people are embarrassing. I don't experience the highest. The prime minister is supportive, but I would like to court those in charge who no longer trust the prime minister to take action, for the highest. Prime Minister does not listen to us. [[The president calls.]] He never has. [[Taken out on: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u92	Mr. President. When I'm at the highest. The minister's comments were made in uncivilized inquiry earlier, and it was found to be entirely galvanistic about all criticism. It is like splashing water on a goose to bring out the criticisms that have been presented in this large case and although the world media shed their light on the fact that the prime minister of Iceland makes him appear to be a victim in the case. It's kind of sadder than tears. The prime minister will try to handle this as he does. Today, the East field is full of people who abuse it, and the protests are bound to continue and become greater. The people will not be invited to take possession of the land by the rich nation's government and to hold it hostage. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need elections and elections right away, and we get honest people back in power, I say back to power, in order to reform a Icelandic society that has become completely corrupt. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u93	Mr. President. By showing interest and willingness to keep open the way to store their money so as not to know if they are being paid to the community, as the public must do, and have had to do in order to straighten out the land after a crash and take on heavy loads for it, politicians who are involved lose all confidence and value in having power and money for the public and for the public. By speaking vehemently of transparency and responsibility but then doing everything he can to conceal his actions and hide his ways, the politicians have become completely meaningless in their words. By opposing the media and shooting messengers that have been loyal to the public and who have worked hard to protect their interests and defend democracy from deception and witchcraft, these politicians have shown that their loyalty is to their own interests and interests, not to public interests. Such politicians must be replaced. That's what more than a thousand people out in the East are asking for.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u94	A respectable president. He's winded up like so many times, probably running for cover, tax cover, tempting to say that in the light of the discussion. Why are people angry? Why does a man himself have trouble controlling his temper here? V.E.G. The prime minister made his fortune at the collapse. He had his money in foreign coins, and when he walked, his family gained half of it. Was he telling us? No, no, no, he was doing this here as a special representative of the country's homes and prostitutes about not being. We were making up an old nest here, full of people in this room and elsewhere. He was not telling us that his family was among the demands. Didn't say anything about it. He now says that tax cover is not a tax bill. Does he want to try to let that shit fly to, for example, German politicians? There is no German politician on this list. [[The president calls.]] That was shown in the show yesterday. Why not? Because it's so morally wrong to have their wealth hidden in one of those taxes. [[The president calls.]] It provides a perfect self - treatment of whether or not they give in to taxes. [[The president calls.]] Of course, such a society would not function if everyone did.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u95	A respectable president. I think we only need to review in the way we're associating with this interest registration because it's absolutely clear to the top. For nearly a year after the renovation of interest registration here, the prime minister was in a group without even realizing it. We have other examples, and he explains that some sort of mistake was made, so his name had suddenly been implicated in having half a partner in Tortula. I ask, " How exactly will such a mistake be made? ' I think all of us in here know that if you start a business or get involved in any of these things, then somehow your signature needs to come to this. Of course he knew what he was doing. He participated in the establishment of this company. It would have been different if he didn't belong and been registered for half share. He told us that he had chosen, and he decided not to acknowledge it on the interest log. In this room, we have to make a mutual decision on how we're going to respond to this with a president in the power of a company.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u96	Mr. President. I'm afraid the opportunity is highest. A prime minister to handle this matter with some dueness or minimal restoration is beginning to travel very quickly, only to get worse with the occasion as high as possible. The prime minister has yet to act. It's destiny to be in a hole and can't stop shoveling and deepening the hole. Is it any defence to try to tell the rest of us that the British Virgins are not a tax robe? To argue that there was no secret to that society, when it is absolutely clear that its existence was concealed until it was established by the media as a result of its existence? That's when they finally tell me. The need for prime minister to communicate with the demands of the fallen banks does not exist when he originally became a demandsant and then, in any case, his wife's regard for a marvelous personal interest. V.E.G. During the interview, prime minister tried to mislead the matter yesterday. Everybody saw it. V.E.G. Prime Minister or his men, Mr. President, tried to prevent the release of the Swedish TV on the news. [[The president calls.]] That all seemed to me to be enough for a democratic prime minister to leave. [[The president calls.]] He's not cute.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u97	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister earlier said that the honor of a nation and of Generalis must be observed because what is being said and done here is being observed. It was the highest. Prime Minister at the moment. Councilmen of the government, that they need to be careful. He doesn't think he did anything wrong; although he hid a considerable amount of money in a tax stream, although he didn't write and explained it in the Council's interest registry in the fall of 2009, and although he sold his share to his wife on a dollar to avoid taxes in 2010. In fact, he has been aware that he is lying. That is a requirement of the highest order. The prime minister resigns, and the crowded eastern court immediately calls for elections. We agree here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u98	A respectable president. I often enjoy going into foreign Web sites when the Icelanders have done well in something and have confirmed that someone has noticed that Iceland won Switzerland for soccer or that we became the number two in Yugoslavia. The feeling that I went to Dr.dk this morning, however, was not good. I haven't been to foreign Web sites since then because I'm going through this. I might get away with taking over in some pieces, taking two pages a day, but at the highest. The prime minister cannot find out what is going on on in foreign Web sites. If he is considering, as he should be doing, what is being said about us, he should have been telling off even if only for it, even though he himself feels he has done nothing wrong. That is no longer relevant. That's secondary. The credibility is gone. If we do not have international credibility because the prime minister has done badly, no matter what he thinks he or she does, he must back off. There can be no escape. [[The president calls.]] Once again, I ask the governor to speak to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and introduce him to the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u99	A lot of 'em. Senators are still on the rosary. It is not that a president missed any members of the council who have asked here for what he knows best. He tries to keep an eye on each finger, to follow along, and to draw his books with great precision.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u100	Mr. President. Mr. President has informed me that he has taken the matters that were on the agenda, and I think it is seen by a council here until there is any understanding in this matter. What we read is that according to the Icelandic government, the British Virgin Islands are tax lovers. That's Wintris's staff. It belongs to the wife of the prime minister. Still, it's the highest. The prime minister up here says: "Neither I nor my wife have had possessions in the tax industry. That's the way it is. This is our appropriate discussion, Mr. President. This is not welcome. These are not explanations that are significant. It doesn't mean to start off with something about Sweden being also the highest tax standard. The prime minister did. The Honorable Prime Minister who comes here and says this to the Allied Council of Iceland is not sweet.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u101	Mr. President. I did not initially have the idea that the prime minister would report because obviously his morality does not cover that something has happened is wrong. He thinks it's okay. He has outlined it in a long line of interviews with himself and his wife, and he believes it is acceptable to the General Assembly and his people to interview himself and to publish on his website. The drum beat has begun. Unfortunately, there are no fewer people than the busiest revolution, and they say everything that needs to be said. It's none of my business whether I'm the highest. A minister and his wife paid taxes or not. That's not the point. The question is the moral question of choosing and having a head of mind in order to own money in a tax area. [[The president calls.]] That's what it's all about. That's the point. It's not about whether the Minister of the Icelandic government pays taxes or not. [[The president calls.]] It's about moral and moral decay, which obviously takes place in the head of the highest. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]] It's a civilized, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u102	A respectable president. V.E.G. As far as we know, the prime minister has left the house. At least he can't be seen here in this room anymore. We only know that when he disappeared from us, he had not given up a office or said that he was meditating on it. Whether he is now talking to a medium of his own choice, we do not know. However, it is clear that with the government groups, there has been a proposal for mistrust and a proposal for violation of Congress and that the election will be started immediately. Clearly, the present government is in the shadow of secret and hidden interests. It is clear that normal Congress jobs are impossible until this violation of Congress will be discussed here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u103	A respectable president. I think it's right that we just think about what happened today. Outside the Assembly Hall, the people gather and shout for the elections and the government, but the prime minister who was able to meet has left the house after standing here and answering any questions. After standing here and continuing to see the lies and the hairs, we were informed that Tortols is not a tax place, but it is Sweden. The local media paid attention to the discussion. What will their international headlines be after this charismatic drama? The matter got worse after this so - called conversation at the Hall of Congress earlier, and perhaps it was not surprising that the prime minister would then run out of the house and be afraid of it, as was the general members of the board, apparently, to take over the discussion, most of the directors. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Of course, history is the only answer at this point. It is impossible that there could be a normal assembly here this week until the decision of the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u104	A respectable president. This is where we sit in the council hall, members of the council's stand. Thousands of people are out in the East, and members of the board of directors do not respect these people. They will not take the discussion. Davíð's dream, chief. Prime Minister, has just left. There is so much that we will discuss. We'll discuss what it means to sit on both sides when you're a demanding man and then when you're negotiating with demands. This is a serious matter. There are others who go to jail in Iceland because they practice marketing abuse. We need to know. I can't be trying to fill in the gaps somehow. The nation's greatest adviser is not to represent himself here. He's gone. Then he can just take it all the way and resign because it's not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u105	President. Out in the East, there are as many people as there are in the convention in 2009. Listening to the demands in the East is essential. Does the United States want this to be not just a political emergency but an emergency facing the world over for something very easy to resolve? 75 international television stations have requested to show directly from the Eastern convention today. 75 foreign television stations. Our lack of opinion in foreign lands will have a powerful impact on our credibility in foreign commerce. The responsibility of the senators who continue to support SigmundurDavíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla. I challenge the conscience of all members of the management team to ensure that when mistrust is given, as soon as possible, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson is removed. For this government, it is absolutely necessary to renew its commission for the sake of this case to get out of hand so that the Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, despite a very clear and rich demand from the East, is still the prime minister of the country. [[President keeps calling.]] It's great music underneath here. Why should I show respect here when the prime minister of Iceland gets away with lying and mob lying to the face of the nation over and over again and he showed no remorse today? Davíð's Gunnlaugsson Sigmundur's disgrace may be before him today and March 11 when he lied and walked out of an interview. [[President keeps calling.]] Since then, he has done nothing but try to minimize the media of those who have asked him simple questions and who refuse to attend an interview to RUS.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u106	Hv. A senator knows that his speech session is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u107	It's shameful. It is shameful, and may Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson do so well and get the hell out of his cabinet as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u108	That's the way it happens. Councilmen here are under the rules of speaking class. President expects to do what. Congress officials do not adopt the position of deeming of those rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u109	A respectable president. It is heartbreaking to think that it has been almost three weeks since it was finished. The prime minister knew that all the information that was presented during the interview that was shown in the Castlight yesterday would be presented. It is heartbreaking to think that at that time the candidates of the advance party have come here to a public speaker at the General Assembly and described it as a huge act of inactivity that men would like to discuss these matters. At the same time, experienced mediamen, such as vagrants, have been present. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson spoke of the publicization party as clearly an enemy of the national television number one. It must be a reasonable requirement for us here to ask these same members of Congress whether they see the forward category as an enemy number one in the media of the entire world. That it's just this way with Guardian in Britain and the Indian Times in India that people wake up there in the morning and wonder how they can now plant a cat-nosed forward?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u110	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The president for taking oral inquiries out of the program and avoiding the council members and councilmen who were there to speak of the shame they would have followed when these people are not prepared to come up here to discuss the situation. But it is not just that there are thousands of people and women who fill the east field. There's a protest all over the country. They're protesting in Akureyri and in Iceland and probably other places at this time. I suppose so, chief. Mr President, that they feel like I'm exposed to the Torto blue colour. I am ashamed, and my sense of justice has been wounded. The Prime Minister kept important interests secret. He concealed the claims of his wife's company in the fallen bank, and he lied about the formation of his property in this company. Mr. President. I request that this meeting be met only after the mistrust of the government stand is scheduled, even if I hope to the highest level. Prior to that, the prime minister resigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u111	A respectable president. There was one thing that was pleasant about this Castlelight show last night, and it was that the world saw what we in the government stand have been discussing almost every day since the last election, i.e. to the maximum. The prime minister believes that he is superior to answering the normal questions, except through a twist and when he is bored with normal questions, he will walk away. That's how he did it. Just like that in a tape. It's a pleasure to see the world broke down, that horrible trouble. But if Sigmundi Davíð Gunnlaugsson is so concerned about Iceland's reputation, as it has been so far, I ask: What was the man thinking in the course of March 11 to April 3? For three whole weeks, he knew of this disaster recording and of this terrible performance, and he did nothing to synchronize a string or to minimize the damage to that horrible predicament that had come up there. [[The president calls.]] I thank a dignified president for taking a case over the council program today for the rest of the meeting, and I trust that no case will be set on the program until the government's mistrust proposal is discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u112	A respectable president. I'm asking the highest. President why the highest. The secretary of finance was not here to comment at the meeting. Can I be informed by the President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u113	At the end of the talk, the president does. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u114	It's been discussed at the highest level. Prime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, from the beginning of this conference, it is absolutely necessary to draw it out here before the meeting ends that meeting and this situation, and this situation in Iceland is offered to the Independence Party. It is the Independence Party that supports Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, as prime minister of the country and continues to support it under these circumstances. It is the Independence Party that will not begin when the prime minister reaches that position. It may be possible to understand that a person in such a terrible position as the prime minister in Iceland cannot face it himself. But that the Independence Party cannot see the situation and is not to be held accountable for it is a serious matter. [[The president calls.]] That's why this meeting is offered to the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u115	For asking why. The chairman of his speech initially wants to inform the highest authority. A foreign minister had to return from city to city in the United States, but because of weather conditions, the flight was delayed to the highest level. The secretary of finance did not achieve the kind of flight he had planned to bring to Iceland but leaves the United States today as far as the president is well aware.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u116	A respectable president. So far now in the East, the protests are the largest I remember to see, and I have been sitting in a council ever since the collapse. This will top everything we've seen. This is a calm, peaceful protest but demonstrates the seriousness of the situation. It must be said, as it is, that the responsibility of these governmental parties is enormous today. This time bomb has been known for weeks, and nothing has been done to disarm it. As a result, the damages and reputations for Iceland have become unspoken worldwide. Lack of action and the special directors of the administrations are so outstanding that they do not trust in this matter and lead it to success on earth. All I have to say is that the head of the council is going to let the board get away with this kind of conduct. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We must defend the nation. We must defend the Republic, not accept that the directors of the board are just thinking about themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u117	Mr. President. There's a lot at stake here. Not just credibility at the highest. The prime minister keeps all politicians and the trust in the community. Are we going to have this land where young people want to live and work, and because they believe that the rights and guidelines are respected and that they will enjoy their skills? Or will we have this land, where connections, discrimination, and corruption control who will receive and who will not have access, and who are excluded? Is it the land we are going to bring to our children? The politicians who take the initiative to defend this act sacrifice the interests of the public and democracy and that of the leadership and the throne of power, giving in to their discouragement and fear of voters, the public of the country. I challenge the council members here condemning this because history will not be soft on them. And the nation will be very careful about what each member of the council will do in the days ahead. You can be sure of that. It's an unprecedented situation. I challenge again to the highest. Prime Minister to step aside and lower the waves in the community, for it is clear that this will not remain silent in death below.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u118	A respectable president. In itself, I need no further explanation from the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. He should resign, and he should. The idea that this fine group of people outside here that thinks thousands, very clearly, did not somehow get the explanation from the highest level. Prime Minister is ridiculous. The idea that it is somehow possible to correct the image failures against foreign sources by giving them some information is preposterous. I wondered: Should we get used to these protests each time that the public and foreign media and foreign politicians, and less than half of the Council, I think it is, in fact, misunderstood something as the highest level. For example, when a prime minister has his own interests as a claimant and holds his valuables in Tortolia, does he do so? Seriously. If he is not to resign under these circumstances, when? What on earth does it take to get the best of it? Prime Minister resigns? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u119	Mr. President. It certainly brings us to the top. Secretary of finance isn't here, and people can offer excuses for what I feel is trivial. In such a big, serious matter, it should be the highest. Of course, the secretary of finance to be in the country and to cross things and to help prime minister make the decision to step aside. But since then nothing can save the government because it has so completely buried itself. It is only a matter of time that this government will be evicted from the Council of Government, for neither the government nor the public of the country will allow this corruption and this prevention. It's just the smell of butter we'll see out on the East Field today. It's amazing to me. Prime Minister, speak as if he were the State. [[The president calls.]] It is so proud of you that it shows. [[The president calls.]] Of course, you have long known that he is beyond redemption. [[The president calls.]] Then shall the rulers say, The Emperor hath no clothing, he hath no strength, and he helpeth him to leave his place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u120	Mr. President. V.E.G. On both sides of the table, the prime minister was in the agreement with the demands. He chose to hide his interests. But the nation had great interests in that regard. It is a just and reasonable requirement. Prime Minister resigns. There may be a problem. Residents and the Independence Party do not consider themselves to be, and they aim to keep the shield above the top. Prime Minister and try to extend the lives of the rich people, the Torttolian government. However, it is the public of the country that will require the surrender of the government of Tortula. The crowded eastern court wants an election right away. That's what everybody's got. Councilmen are required to agree, whether in a government or in a position of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u121	V.E.G. President. It's amazing. The prime minister who has said today that he is not going to resign from office despite what has happened to him is to drop out of this chamber at the earliest opportunity. Heavy in our discussion today has been not only on the side of the government side of this body hall. Heavy, which, of course, shows the seriousness of the situation, is here outside, on the East Field. But I want to, because I think it's time to lower to the second part at a meeting, thanks to the highest. However, for the sake of the program, a president would want to agree with another subject. Councilmen who have sought no other matters to take place until the discussion of the prime minister's distrust is discussed, that we will not discuss any other matters until then. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u122	Mr. President. In fact, it may be enough to ask just one simple question on this subject, and it is this: Can it really be said that the prime minister of the West, I don't speak of a Norwegian welfare community, do I have a foreign society on the head of the taxes? Is it compatible with being prime minister in a state whose existence is based on the fact that those who are willing to pay their taxes in support of the combination? My answer is no. And the Society of Prime Ministers is not isolated. It is related to one of the most unpleasant chapters in the history of the years before the collapse, when profit flowed from Iceland billions into artificial societies, as well as to the concierges of taxes and the Icelandic government did nothing about it, to provide suggestions on this from tax authorities and special committees. It was not until a new government made one of its priorities in 2009 to pick up holes in them. During those years, the Society of Prime Ministers is a member of this reality, and its existence alone is plenty to the highest degree. Prime Minister must go. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-04-04-92.u123	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the requirement of many other senators who have spoken of this as having no case in the program until it is finished and vote for the mistrust of the memory. You can recall past protests, but you have rarely seen them so loud or so loud before. And there's a reason. This is because people are totally offended. Not without reason. This is not because this group of people out there misunderstand one or more, but because of their conduct. Prime Minister is not okay. He needs to get it through his head that it's not okay. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's not just what happens to the state of the highest. Prime Minister in connection with his interests, it is not just that. That's bad enough. But it's also the response, how it is. The members of the Continents have acted as if the members of the smaller section were here, by permission of a president, Š smooch-game, a quote from the highest level. Secretary of state in its own time. Or the people here in the East, are they playing that game? I don't think so, Mr. Honorable President.
