ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06.u1	November 30th. received such a written message: Iceland's number tells: I have decreed, according to the request of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet to meet on Tuesday, December 6, 2016. As soon as I publish this, at the General Assembly, everyone who has a session is invited to come to Reykjavík for a day, and then the General Assembly will be appointed after a religious service in the cathedral at the beginning of the day. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. All units, 30 November 2016. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet on Tuesday, December 6, 2016 According to a letter I have read, I declare that the General Assembly of the Icelanders is set up. In 1845, the General Assembly was rebuilt, nearly half a century after Congress had ceased on the United States Hall. Carl Emil Bardenfleth, a Stiftamtman, and a king's representative, first stepped up in the Sermon on the Mount and began his case with these words: Now it is the least holy time, that the people of the land should be honored, when it is time for us to set an assembly. There will be a word here in Iceland that will open up both to men so many memories of the ancient age, and offer up so many hopes of the coming time, as this one word: General. It was not the restored assembly gathered in Reykjavík, a legislature, or a democratic meeting in the sense of our day. It was appointed royal representatives and men of the higher class who had been chosen by traders. The assembly sat upon the Council of Consferens, Jusstziarius, and assor, priests, testers, and districts. The lavers, the guards, and the peasants, were not at all at all in women. Today, the century is different. Yet, some have remained motionless in the stream of time. It is still a solemn occasion, and we Icelanders with respect to the General of the Commonwealth of the Commonwealth. There was no democracy, and there it was for us to go in our own sense. However, from there we have the wisdom that if we break the law, we break peace, as well as the truth of the need for compromise at the General Assembly. But now I find this advice, and I think that The Þorgeir of Ljósvetningagoði have said it when it was ordained, when it was Christian, that we should give counsel, and not take the most counsel against it, and that they should bring a case between them, that both sides might take their decision. At times, peace was gone. About a decade after the conversion, there was a fighting during a council, the weekend of which was terminated. It was the aftereffects of the burning in Bergishvoli. Some were slain, saith Nvil account; a spear came into the midst, or passed through both his feet. There it came that Hallur of Filter looked for reconciliation. ▪ He said: "I will again show that I am a lowly man. Conflicts stopped. In Hall's case Hallur was made a great swing and a good one, and all praised his great goodness. The stories live, the message lives. Congress is now given under unusual circumstances. More than a month has passed since elections led to the loss of more part of the government at the Council and to the release of the government. A new government has not been established. For example, decades have to look back in advance for parallels. In 1942, when Björnsson was governor, he was elected to a assembly in October, as is now the case. Undeniably, the government was at peace. Thus, there were conflicting issues, but there was also a contrast between their leaders, even among individuals. Sveinn developed the practice that the president handed over to the political leaders the authority to form a government system that he believed most likely had to do something that would work. Discriminately, the first one tried another, and then the authority would pass through if it needed a show until there was a government. Today, it is remembered that the just century has passed since the birth of Kristján Eldjárn, the third president of the Republic. During the course of 1978,1980, he was very strict in his treatment. It may be said that this was closer to a continuous control crisis. There were the same conditions mentioned earlier. In addition, another problem arose. In the time of Kristján, some political leaders who stood up for administrative matters seemed to have no success, for then the order would eventually come to them themselves to lead them. The honor would be so if things worked out well. Kristján Eldjárn was guided by government photographs that no group would be excluded. First, he entrusted the chairman of the party, far to the left in politics, with a formal commission for government development. But I believe that the record is that Kristján did the right thing. When no one seems more likely to create a government, other views must be considered. At the Allied Assembly of the Icelanders, all members of the Parliament and members of the Parliament are to be as righteous. It is not unusual for the public to doubt how badly the council went to form governments during the last years Kristján Cennian Eldjárn iron on the president's chair. Forward, however, did the voters put their trust in the Generals. Sadly, that is not true of our day. More collapsed than banks in the fall of 2008. People felt that the council had failed. Though much has changed for the better, it is clear that the trust between Congress and nation has not been established again. The people of Iceland judge by their actions, manners, and ways. The work of senators is largely carried out outside council meetings, in committees, through conversations here and there, with voters at home in votes. On the other hand, the media focus mainly on what happens in this room. And there's a need for improvement. Many agree, including longtime members of Parliament, with years of fierce labor. Issues need detailed discussion, but speech speech is shocking and repugnant. Much of it needs to be decisive, but those in smaller sections must be able to influence the course of the situation. A new assembly has been elected. How true that is! Never in the republic's history have so many recruits sat at the General Assembly, more than half of the members of Congress. The average age of senators has never been lower than today, over 46 years. At no rate has the Congress itself been so small, an average of less than four years. Never have so many women been in the Reich, almost half, or 47.6%. And most likely the background of members of the Parliament was never so varied. A restoration of trust is possible and urgent. Now it is a song to increase the glory of the council and the respect of it - certainly in a hall, to argue, if necessary, but to improve the practice, the attitude, the order, and the Senate. At the same time, let us honor good customs and customs, learn from history, take warning from hell. That is what the ancient people did. A manuscript of about 1500 contains the terms of the Senate for which refuge is recommended at the General Assembly is referred to by bitter experience: ▪ I... declare to all you people who are coming with such stones as our fathers have set before us for our freedom and for our mercy and for the book of our law, that all the men who are in Öxára are going forth; and they will be in refuge together until they return to their own house; but if anyone walks on this rock and weighs a man down, he has made for himself money and peace and land and waste, and will never return to his own land. I wish for all success and hope that the work of the Congress in behalf of a nation will be married, that they will bring matters to the fore so that all of the people might have proposed their case in the course of the coming time. When I say so, I beg the generals to remember the foster world by rising from their seats. [[The senators rose from their seats and prime minister, Sigurd Ingi Jonsson, said: our entire president and earth. Iceland lives, and the senators took the word with a four-fold hurrah shout.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06.u2	I'm offering everybody what? Allied members elected by the 29th October 2016 General election welcome to work at the General Assembly. In particular, I welcome newly elected generals who were not here at the end of the Council, who are now more than in the history of the Generals, half of the U.S. Congress. It is similar with a happy milestone that women are now more than ever at the beginning of an election season, 30 in number, 47.6%, and are successful in doing so, not to be a year later when we remember the anniversary of women's election. I would like to express the hope that the work of this newly elected council will be a land and nation's welfare. On behalf of us generals, I greet the staff of the Generals and expect us to cooperate with them as we always do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-12-06.u3	According to 2 mg. 1st par. The election shall now be elected by nine members of the committee to test the election and the vote of the newly elected senators and the deputy council members. Borist has a list of names entitled Birgir Ármannsson, Ásmundur Gunnarsson, Ólafsdóttir Olafursdótt Örfsdótir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústóttir, Oddný Harðardóttir Harddardóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gónsót Gensótir, and Tothol Björn Einarsson. Since there are no other nominees than votes, I shall declare the former members of the General Assembly of the Court on the Advisory Committee. A letter board is about to go to work. This meeting will soon be postponed, and I would like to ask members and guests to accept the occasion of the Lord's Evening Meal. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister, to take me to the front of the hall.
