ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u1	A respectable president. I come up here to advertise the price reduction of the imported product due to the strength of the crown and the reduction of taxes and the fees that this government has paid for. Where are those downs? I've only seen them in small ways. Thus the National Association of Iceland points to the lack of charge on building products, lower value tax and sponsorship, and has not paid for consumers. On the contrary, the index of construction products has increased despite the possibility that the products had dropped significantly. Not long ago, one euro was registered on about $ 145. This morning it was registered to $129. Not long ago, the dollar lasted over $30. This morning it was worth about $111. Since then, it has collapsed following the use of Baltrexit. But where are consumer prices reduced? The fact is, tax and repercussions usually return quickly and effectively to the prices of increase in prices, low tax rates, and late and bad levels. Factors that are primarily designed to support the country's homes are of primary benefit to those who are involved in the import and sale. In this way, research showed that the cost of household equipment decommissionment and the reduction of the value tax in the past was much less than expected. Did the removal of clothes and shoes to consumers mean divorce? No, only to a small degree. Often, products fall temporarily after tax doctors, but they quickly return to the same place. This is not just a matter of the attitude of those who run a business; this is also an example of a small, immature market where competition is low. For God's sake, let's remember that although the excel document tells us that the price of product and service should be reduced, the reality is more often than anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u2	A respectable president. Lost and cutbacking are the realities of the Icelandic media. We've been watching the difficulties of RUS in recent losses. Now we see the sun's own, along with the multimedia growth wands, various networks, business losses, and difficult business conditions. This is supposed to be a big concern for all of us. This will not be resolved by reducing the share of The Kingdom Radio. We need to improve the management conditions of all the media in Iceland because they have become rapidly deteriorating. Their commercial markets contract, international competition becomes harsher, and consumers are less willing to pay for their content. If we are to maintain the strength and the power of the media, we need to make adjustments in the tax environment of these sources, supported by these means. I challenge the highest. The minister of education is promoting that people on the contrary speak together about a broad set of suggestions that meet the needs of small Internet media, old - fashioned newspapers, highly light - control agencies, and the state radio as a result of the weak media being weak democracy. If there's something that the Allied Council is to protect and prevent them, it's getting sick with the democracy in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u3	V.E.G. President. I'd like to call attention to an article published in the Morning Press yesterday, by Dr. Eric Stubbs. It is entitled, with the permission of a president: ▪ Iceland would benefit from a different interest policy. A fine man is a financial adviser at Royal Bank of Canada, New York. He has often been here in recent years, observing the modern economy. He says that it is an old - fashioned method of trying to influence consumption by means of interest and recommends instead by trying to maintain a level of success with interest decisions. He even mentions it. what Iceland is designed for the flow of capital and international transactions. There are some things I've been talking about over the past few losses, i.e. The high-growing policy in Iceland has led to a high fund that at least once can look out again, and those times that happen to the owners of this money, but to us possibly ill. This fine man points out that the models that are now used by the Council Bank executives are old - fashioned, used for 25 years, and that it is time to go new ways. I think it would be well for the heads of Iceland to pay attention to the words of this fine man along with the criticism of more eloquent economists that have occurred in the past few weeks and months and to say exactly the same thing, i.e. That Iceland's management interest is simply too high.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u4	V.E.G. President. The government has been trying to disappear from burning fossil fuels in transport in Iceland and has emphasized the growth of national electrical infrastructures. This structure is somewhat advanced and is demand to speed it up, as human interest and awareness of renewable energy use has indeed grown. However, for this to be a realistic possibility for all citizens of the country, both the relief stations built in many parts of the country need to be equipped to set up lines in the processing plant that want to extract electricity from land on ships at docks. Electrical vehicles have been increased in the country, but some changes have to be made in order and management, e.g. Whether EEA Directive for environmental transport should apply and what standards should be implemented for fast-loading stations should be decided. There is no question about it: Refiners are permitted to deliver electrical energy to aquifers without being considered an energy sales company in the sense of the law. Public hosts also need to consider the methods of stress management in the event of an electric accelerator. This also requires that construction regulations be taken into account so that loading stations will be arranged at apartment and parking lots, for example. There are, of course, certain solutions related to transport energy exchange, and they are mostly smaller when it comes to shipping fleets. Landlinks have long been available. For a time, electricity was for a special currency team, but since 2005, no differences can be made in what energy is used. Something has to be considered so that the progress of this matter can be addressed. But it may be a small thing if the country has not been built in air lines since 2006 and reports of a hotel being built on diesel. We need to be able to transport the electricity we produce for users.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u5	A respectable president. Why should tax appeals only be useful to major companies in Iceland? What about ordinary people who live under distressing circumstances? Alcoa has, e.g. Never paid corporate taxes in Iceland. Fish costs and taxes have been dropped on rich people, but the government has taken away all the ideas that have shown tax appeals to ordinary people, such as. It's because of living in the country. The minister says it runs the tax system because they want a simple tax system on which they climb. But for whom is a simple tax system? We hold sophisticated equipment to simplify people's lives. The smart phone is, for example. A complicated instrument for simplifying a person's life and using it effectively. In fact, the tax system is just a tool, so it can be used to balance people's circumstances, simplify their lives, and make them better because we are one community, and we want to be one community. The difference between parts of the country is fact. The cost of heating, the cost of transportation, the cost of transportation for jobs and services, the challenges of transportation, all of these are examples of burdensome conditions that we as a community should be able to help people with green pay, tax pay, or other equal measures through the tax system in order to balance national facilities and promote freedom of living. If large companies and wealthy people can be liked by ordinary people living in this country and, in fact, more reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u6	Mr. President. The work market has been reasonably peaceful over the past few months, but there are still operations or debates in various groups, such as elementary school teachers. They made a new deal, and we come back to see where it's going to go and see if there's a better option or what's going to happen to that class. Fishermen of a total total agreement made between the European Union and the European Commission in the fishing grounds, with 66% votes. Now they're trying to reach some conclusion again. We do not know what will come to pass if we do not meet the end of a possible strike. For the council, there is a proposal that I believe would be a good entry into the debates, a senator's proposal that seamen's bargains are tax subsidies, such as those that work away from homes. These include pilots and flight attendants. I know this has come up and I think it's right that this case that's being discussed by the Economic and Business Committee. I think it's important. But there is another class that may not have an accessory to talk about its terms, that is, Icelandic sheep farmers who have in many parts of the world used to flaunt half a pole today because the price of sheep farmers from branch offices continues to decrease. KS in Tahlfhem proclaimed a fall to his farmers, and the people are shocked. This is a tremendous decrease in the size of sheep farmers who do not have the ability to do good. [[The president calls.]] So we should think of the customs agreement that is being discussed here, where hundreds of tons of meat are being flushed in the country when these places are located in our farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u7	A respectable president. Yesterday, the news showed that nearly 500 children 18 years of age and younger were charged with violations of penal law last year. Of these, 169 children are 14 years of age and therefore not guilty. 11 children were sentenced to probation last year, and the police arrive each year at 20 to40 social services due to minor violations. The importance of children and young people being given the opportunity to learn from mistakes they make, to make progress, and to take responsibility for their actions will soon be overrated, with the responsibility of the children's agent repeatedly pointing out the need to promote reconciliation as a release for children who have committed a crime. So I cannot help but be impressed by the attitude expressed in an interview with Hörður Hardon Jóhannesson, who appeared in the September 3 News magazine. It makes clear that human understanding, support, respect, and human approach to the offenses of children and young people can produce far more results than punishment can. Happily, we have people like Hörður throughout the whole community who use these methods every day. Our subject here, however, is wondering how we can build our community so that this attitude is reflected through all of our systems that work with children and young people. One way that is more extensive is through the introduction of reconciliation along with the appropriate support. At the spring convention, the General agreed to direct the bill. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar of the change in civil penalties to the government, thereby assigning a judicial committee to inspect the community services of young offenders, along with the appropriate support and treatment options for reform. I expect that work will bring us steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u8	A respectable president. Most categories now have a standard of testing, and we are very much dependent on people's trust in political groups and the methods they use in choosing future candidates. I must say that I am shocked by the growth of that democracy and therefore disrespect for the right rules of democracy that have appeared in the Pirata re-elector of the Northwestern district. A member of the party shows up during a radio interview and says that the art selected has been accepted as a confirmation, since the artist's point of view became faint that behavior is not acceptable to us. The crime is described during the interview, that the point bet was assigned 203/430 people to join the category to choose themselves. There are now quite a number of criminals in Icelandic politics if this is a gross sin. I must be wondering if the members of Pirata never got anyone to join the party. Are they not running for follow-up? A member of the class, which is well meant, also in the district and lost in a re-election term, then bites his head out of his shame when he says the word: ◯... according to the statistics that were published on the election, 18 of these only chose him and no one else in the re-election... A respectable president. Here's a hell of a saying. It is either against the principles of free elections and against the clear terms of the law of personal protection by having the votes of the people in favor of the party, or that the party's spokesman is spreading slander about individual participants in democratic elections. Any explanation should be sufficient to eliminate this political movement. And again, what's the crime? For already late and eventually it is informed of the statistical criteria of Porta's registries in the capital area that it turns out that a number of people joined the panel for the reelection and 7.8% of subjects chose only one candidate. In fact, it was the most common combination of the ballot. Why didn't you make a retest? Is it because the right people were chosen there? A respectable president. This work properly undermines belief in politics and a class that goes so far cannot read other lessons about personal protection, transparency, security, and the right rules of democracy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u9	A respectable president. I have to answer these charges, and they are truly serious. We in Pirates have always maintained that electronic elections can never be secret. That is why we have repeatedly spoken against electronic elections when we make votes, national votes, or elections to the World Congress for production, that they will never be used electronically. This is one of the basic leaders of democracy. However, we are democracy, we are trying to do things differently, and part of it is that we are trying to develop an election system. Our democracy may be different from that of a national resolution process, which was introduced in the first place. This was part of the process from the beginning, so it's not as we've decided it afterwards. The Qualifications Council decided that this list was to be trusted by the entire group on a national scale. Isn't that just another democracy? I'm asking. Don't we all have to trust our political arts, the people that are campaigning for Pirata? May we not at times try to approach only other sources of democracy? Less democratic, more democratic than we realize that electronic elections can never be completely secret. When these data were analysed, they had been disabled. They had already made sure that the social security number could not be identified. You could see how people chose, how many women and how many men there are. I'm referring these charges to the Fathers' houses. I think it's extremely low of what it's like. A senator and he could have just asked us or tried to get this thing out of his sight, end up fighting Piratars for democratic reforms, and that sometimes means that we run into certain stones in our streets, but this isn't one of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u10	V.E.G. President. On August 23rd. answered the question. paritaprevir Óttarr Propé's Proppé for a proposal for my interpretation and for other members of the Parliament the future of the National Order for a continuation of discussions about the involvement of Iceland with the European Union as well as the next total election. I also have a bill on the change in the law of national regulations, of notation since the deadline. I wondered why, on the basis of this, there will be no greater sound in the Council of Congress, especially among the constitutions that praised the Icelanders and voters for choosing this in the terms of the election. This is one of the greatest frauds ever committed in this hall, and it has been some, especially from those categories. I'm not necessarily a special interested person on the European Union or follow it. Like anything else in the world, the meeting of the people was held during the last weekend, and so was the case. Talk to Björn Karlsson, director of the Manning Agency, for example, as he was talking about the buying of homes here and in our neighboring countries. There, he gave an example of 30 million involved. K. Indiscriminate loan here, we paid for it in 191st. K. in a month, talking about how making a home is difficult for young people. At the same time, the same kind of loan is being paid in Norway 47 you. No. No. No. No. No. No. No, no, no. No, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no. K. correspondent in Sweden, 37 of you. K. correspondent in Finland and 30 yous. K. correspondent in Denmark We've spent an infinite amount of time last year, and this is what we've been doing in housing bills trying to match the lower paying classes in the country so that they can have a roof over their heads, but we are not ready to allow people to choose if they want to enter the European Union and live with a normal interest rate, low inflation, and a constant currency. No, we're not ready for that. This is an incredible betrayal, and I don't understand that all council members here in the hall, but all classes have promised that these negotiations should be completed, at any rate, chosen not to be with us in this matter. [[The president calls.]] It would solve an enormous problem in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u11	A respectable president. I'm very kind to answer that question. 4th, including We're out of here. " The Árni Páll Árnason, when he deals with the electronicity of Pirata. He seems to confuse, like actually another what? A senator, statistics, and personal details. This is two different things, as we all must know. There are well - known problems with electronic elections that no one has ever talked about as well as piranha, including the media, and perhaps especially the one here. These are defects which are well - known to make them undesirable for e.g. General elections or national regulations to form the EU However, it is electronic democracy that must be experimented. It needs to continue to develop in order to gain better control of it, and that is why it is appropriate, as I have often said in the media, to a group, or to such. Companys, or smaller units, make use of electronic democracy with the flaws and counterwelves against each individual defect and continue to develop. One of the members of the organization involved in this experiment with us is the United States, which also uses electronics, which is good and blessed. But what a joy it would be if there were as much official discussions about the systems that the Conspiracy is using as it is with us! That is because we do not avoid this discussion, at the same time, we rejoice in it. That's why I'm very kind to come here and talk about this, because that's a very important thing. When it comes to Pirata's re-election in the Northwestern district, it is good to be clear that it was the northwestern district itself that set out the rules that were followed, not those of Porta members, not anyone in Reykjavík. It was the people in the northwestern district who, in advance, determined how these rules were to exist. Or in the final sanctuaries, Herbert Snorrason may be able to but what? The senator entered his comments, is no longer a candidate. He stepped out, announced in advance that he would not volunteer if the art was taken down, just for the reason that he did not want his own supply to be in the water. I'm going to be critical. A senator rejects but rejoices that we take this discussion. It's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u12	President. I feel like my friends have answered the question. paritaprevir Páll Árnason's years are fine. He pointed to the question of Pirata's senators whether we had not ever asked people to walk to Pirata to vote for us. I'm very kind to say what. A senator from the fact that I've never asked anyone to walk into Pizza to vote for me. Never. I didn't even pick up the phone - never - in this court and ask people to vote for me. I took the stand that either people trust me or they don't. It's just that way. It makes me happy to answer it that way. I was going to talk about something else. I'm just gonna go back to a great meeting this morning. I encourage members of Congress to study what was asked for at that meeting, but it was an open meeting with the FBI agent at the Board of Directors and Control Committee. I thought it was with the best meetings the committee has ever had with the Generals' agent. There was a very important point, which I believe is essential that all members of the council who are going to make an offer again learn of themselves. An agent of the Generals is given a very important role. It is of utmost importance that it is a fixed body of financial resources that the Generalist can also carry out his duty to the citizens of the country, when they find reasons to point out a defect in the system to which they are involved, receive solid financial support so that he can pursue the necessary initiative research. What I found interesting at this meeting was his suggestion about the administration. The meeting was so rich that I directed my heartfelt desire to other senators that they study and take what was going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u13	Mr. President. Here we have an unsupervised government in the final meters, a government that isn't divorcing the infrastructure in good enough, quite frankly. Health, transportation, education, law enforcement, financed universities, high schools, elected seniors, disability - everyone is somehow incompatible, yet this government is enjoying a very good living. It sanctimoniously pays off debt but is, in fact, simply postponing the future and letting succeeding generations pay. Instead of using the government's tax institutions, they have been weakened during the terms of the election and have depended on the radical action we know and included. Talk about last night, the stability proposal. She's fired with a variety of subjects, including The insurance policy, the media, she was spanked by the Huns Bank, yesterday I think, about the insurance policy and the same is really true of the United States. A little bit on the same book. The recovery has not come to those who need it most. Of course, this is unfortunate, and although it is good to pay off debt, sometimes things have to be done at the same time. It's not enough to put your eggs in one basket and make all the rest wait. That has been the case, unfortunately. I say we need a new approach, and for that, we'll have an opportunity in the future elections, which, fortunately, will occur within a brief period of time and will now be at the end of October. I encourage people to come to their homes and make sure that they change. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u14	President. According to Alcoa's annual account for 2015, despite over 90 billion dollars, the company did not pay income taxes in Iceland last year. This is because the company's debt is held above its property in this country. In fact, the company has never paid a company tax in Iceland, since it has not paid interest here. But Alcoa, Iceland, has paid his mother's partner in Luxembourg nearly 57 billion dollars. the growth of the plant's building in a disaster crisis. At the same time, the revised losses have taken over 52 billion dollars. Over 4.5 billion dollars. There is a difference between Alcoa's payments in Iceland and her mother's company in Luxembourg and the company losing business since 2013. Hence, the report on the published losses is totally attributed to the payment of the mother's company in Luxembourg. It has been reported in the media that Þorláksson, a former head of state tax, feels that Alcoa is most likely to use this method to get money from the plant's activities without paying taxes on the company's economics in Iceland. In fact, the June 2015 Indriði interview says: "It's just a ready loss. During the conference last night, the minister of finance became very defensive about this course of taxation on a huge industrial company and could not deny the addition of the news coverage of the RUS. But if the secretary of finance and chairman of the Independence Party remains to let these big firms pay an acceptable income tax, why hasn't he put in a bill about it? Why is this a cause of inactivity? What has been the cost? Who is responsible for this? Who are the Ministers of the Government working, the general public in the country or an international aluminium company? We are living under unscrupulous electrical agreements that ensure aluminium electricity is far below market prices. They enjoy considerable appeals on the basis of specific agreements. In addition, they seek all ways to avoid paying natural taxes to society, as were the individuals and people who were revealed here with the Panama papers. Why has this not been done? Why has nothing been done to prevent this? There's been a bill here since what. paritaprevir Jakobsdóttir's daughter Katrín says that since 2013 there will be rules about a thin self - payment. [[The president calls.]] Now the secretary of finance is going to do something. [[The president calls.]] First, he says he's going to do something. Is that convincing, respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u15	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss the more serious situation of the PCC SE's work on the Back of Húsavík and what it can have for the North Council, the local communities around it, and the state funds. An investment agreement with PCC SE, which includes the obligation of the government to prevent anything that could happen that could result in the halting of this project, has been made. The consequences include: that the North Council community could fail. If these projects were to be halted, this could also mean that the government fund would have to pay billions for damage. There's nothing we can do about it. Furthermore, this situation is designed to destroy the reputation of our Icelanders as a country in which professional employment is more likely to develop. All of this is in the lump now if nothing has to be done. On the other hand, local authorities have been meeting with relevant authorities, and I have the highest reputation. Industrial and commercial ministers working hard to prevent this damage. Let us understand that our partners, the Germans in this case, have no patience for long periods of time. They don't understand this kind of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u16	A respectable president. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I would like to recommend the Committee on Environment and Transportation for a bill to correct the change in the law on Lake Earth, No. 67/2007, with subsequent changes. [[The president calls.]] The committee discussed the matter and brought to mind a number of individuals whom no record is needed here. The bill suggests some changes in the law on Lakejörður Park. The changes return in order first to set up regulations for the Commission and its responsibility, secondly the terms for national protection changed to be consistent between their responsibility and their Commission, thirdly to change the cooperation of the law, the management and protection programme and the National Park regulations, fourthly detailed regulations for the right effects of the management and protection programme, and the fifth, are set up as regulations for national work in the park and for the license of events, implementation and activities within the national park. The changes are based on some of these changes. to the report of a work group reviewing the European Commission programme of the Waters Fund from August 2013, but according to Article 4 of the provision for temporary action of law No. 60/2007 was to revise the administrative arrangements of the Earth's Earthly Nation no later than January 1, 2013, in cooperation with state and rural society, and to evaluate how the park's ruling arrangements had worked out. I had not planned to swerve the committee's opinion thoroughly. We thought it best to strengthen the administrative arrangement of Lake Earth. There was quite a lack of work and procedures on the environment and transport committee. We believe that by the bill we are strengthening the work of the Waters Earth National Park, we suggest some changes to the management and protection programme, to the park and national authority of the National Parks. This suggests a change to Article 12. The laws that are simple and clear. The committee points even. should be provided for a new 3 mg per year. Section 12. will show that in the national park management and protection programme it is permitted to set the criteria for implementation and monitoring in order to ensure that there is no unnecessary environmental management, geographs, lakes, landscapes or culture in the park. On the basis of this provision, there will be some can be used to set conditions that will be considered suitable locally for projects that will fit into the environment and landscape. We discussed the Commission's position, but the bill suggested that the Commission be responsible, like the executives of the institutions, to be made clear. There's no need to trace it here than in the 38th floor. Relations on the Rights and Duty of the State, No. 70/1996 is the legal responsibility of the directors. We discussed the situation of an audience in the administration of Lake Bayside Park, but according to Article 4. The law has one agent designated by an outdoor audience to find the government. According to the Commission, this arrangement has been properly established by the National Park until there were a variety of views on the rights of an audience, and an outdoor organization has requested a full involvement in the administration. We don't think it's right to suggest a change in the administration order, as it would affect the level of power determined when the national park was formed in the full agreement of local rural society. However, the committee feels that it is proper to state their interpretation of Article 4. The law says that in the hearing, finding a government is freedom of speech and right of motion, not of vote. Change of the bill and the changes the committee suggests to II. "the section of the law" includes... that the tourist organisation shall jointly nominate one representative as an officer of the national park's administration plus an outdoor organisation and as an order to change the 5th paragraph. the administration of the national park shall establish a protocol in which the above understanding of the office of an officer is made clear. The committee reviewed the view that the Law should indicate that the national park's main office should be located in the territory of the park. This suggestion is based on the view that most of the park's activities are in his territory. We made that point clear, but it led to the conclusion that the national government arrangement is based on a system not controlled by the system of authority. Therefore, it should be maintained that the government is making a decision about the location rather than that it is determined by law or by a minister's decision. This makes the park's office a vital cause for operation at the board and, therefore, for stakeholders involved in the national park's administration. I've tore several things up against others. Then you should point out that in verse 15. The bill suggests that a new section will be added to the legislation requiring contracts for job related activities in the National Park and license groups due to planned events and projects. These related changes are 8th Figure 5. The bill that adds to the new project controls the oversight of a professional policy for the national park. The Commission considers the new agreements of national employment in the park to be greatly improved and to work on the protection objectives of the law. The national park's application continues to increase, and this growing demand calls for more intensive employment. It is important that national parks have the means to manipulate the park's natural environment in a sustainable way. We also suggest a new 15. b will be required for permission measures due to organized events requiring facilities, human resources, or the handling of instruments in the park. It is also referred to as being judged. to films, but part of the park has been shut down because of movie construction. Two. Its code contains national authority to temporarily close parts of the park because of the events. The committee discussed the provision, but it showed that the provision of national parks was given too broad a power to seal parts of the park without consulting the local Council. The Commission does not consider that there is a reason to suggest a change in the arrangement and that national security is a good idea to determine whether the situation is in such a way that temporary closures are properly permitted, as they care for the daily management and management of the affected area. Other sources of national parks for the closure of parts of the park are due to a more efficient natural environment or to the presence of areas or environment that are damaged so that immediate action is considered necessary. Finally, I'd like to mention that the committee discussed that it is clear that there is a need to increase funds for the national park's management. As the number of visitors increases, the need for infrastructure to protect the park's nature and to create activities within the national park is increasing. The park needs to increase the workers who work in its territory but also increase in the park's office with increasing activity. With more workers, there is an opportunity to strengthen the national park's core unity and bring more aspects of the work closer to the national park itself. According to 2-1. The law is authorized to collect guest fees within the park for the costs of services and monitoring of residents. With a change of 21. The National Park must be permitted to collect a permit service and contracts that should be met at the cost of granting, oversight and the monitoring of authorized activities. Care must be taken to ensure that the national park receives sufficient funds so that it may be possible to invade an important infrastructure so that the national park can grow and prosper the people of the land for the benefit of all. In the opinion of the Committee, it is important that the bill succeeds in completing a large improvement in the function of the park. This will make it clear to the responsibleness of the economy in accordance with the laws and other laws of the law explained in the past year's experience and responds to indications given to the Commission in full consultation with the stakeholders. So the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made and proposed in a special Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, huh? paritaprevir Will Árnason and what? paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir was absent from the case, but publications under the opinion given at 4 mg. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Other than that, sign the bill in addition to being the head of the environment and transport committee, please. The members of Katrín, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, Haraldur Einarsson, Ármannsson, Elín Hirst, and Svandís, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, as well as the people I listed earlier. I'd like to thank the Committee for your cooperation. I think that a good conclusion has been made on this case, and I think the bill will result in our importance and beauty park being better, better protected by nature, and the development of infrastructure and all extramaritals and management in a more professional and better way in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his career. On the other hand, I wanted to ask why. A senator, chairman of the committee and senior authority, for the position of an officer in the hearing. I've been watching these matters for quite a while, but I just wanted to ask, because there's some meaning, isn't it perfectly clear, can't you trust that if you have to put something specifically into that audience, which I think should be valid representatives and feel that they don't have a fault, that they have an argument and proposal? You feel that way, but there's been some debate about it. I've never even heard of any question about it in any government. But that's why I'm asking this because it's very important. Do they have a debate and proposal in the board? I want to ask that question because if there's any doubt in it, I think we need to sort it out. I'm telling you very clearly that I think these people, agents at the hearing, should actually be proper members of the administration. It is only for obvious reasons that they represent people who have a direct interest in the matter of hearing and taking note of the government. I want to hear from you. A senator's exact schedule for this matter is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. That's right, we talked about the position of an officer. Sadly, it became known that the presentation and rights of public officials had been mixed. We make it very clear that they have freedom of speech and right to propose, I think it is right and normal, and I agree with it. That is the way a senator should be, and should not be elaborate about how he or she is. How or whether they should have made a valid part, it was also discussed, but the conclusion was that we did not consider this level to be the right to suggest a change in the order of the government. This was by means of a reference to riding on the percentages of power determined when the park was established at its time, most of which was done by the content of all the rural communities in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u19	A respectable president. Then it is quite clear what the committee interpretation is, and it is important that everyone be aware of it. I heard why. A senator said, he spoke very clearly, and I agree with him, and I realize that the officer of the hearing is having a proper membership. Then, too, I wanted to ask for a reason. Now the National Park is for all Icelanders, and it's very important that it be that way. It is important that people enjoy the park. The members who have used it and have been pioneers in this field and have done it for decades, I think it is reasonable to believe that the general rule is that they are good at being natureists in the best sense of that word. But I wanted to know, a respectable president, because I think that in one place the words have been taken out and enjoy a change of 2. A law that says, "Let the public know and enjoy nature and the history of the region." So I'm asking if it's true and if there's anything about it in the bill that we're cutting down the public right to enjoy the park. I'll admit that I feel that some who come to these matters are a little strange, and even are trying to limit public access and, in some way, the best meaning of the word to natureists. I hate that. So I ask. A senator whether there is something in the bill that limits people's access to the National Park beyond what is present.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u20	A respectable president. First only when it's about the audition. I think we're gonna do what. A senator can understand exactly the same, we are talking about, and it is very clear in a committee that those who are listening have free speech and a court of motion. There is no question about it. No, I don't think we're limiting access in any way. But we're strengthening him, I would say. The primary issue of the bill is to explain the rules that apply. We can see that there is tremendous attendance at the park. It's not just an outdoor organization, it's also people who want to run all kinds of work related to it, get permission for filmmaking, etc. There have been issues that have caused uncertainty, and individuals may have experienced that their activities or their presence have conflicted with others. We wanted to try everything we could to explain this. I believe we did it. But it's a completely new chapter 15 gr. that state how to handle all the contracts involved in employment and also about licences due to organized events requiring facilities, human resources, or equipment. The main purpose is that the experience of all people of the park will be pleasant. That's where everyone has a feeling that our park is being handled with great responsibility because it's our biggest and most beautiful nature bulb. We need to give her full respect. I think that's what they're doing on this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u21	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to go over the fact that even though this case doesn't make much of an initial impression and seems to be some administrative change that should go right through them, the case has been very smooth, it's been overrun on the committee because there's been a lot of comment to the bill submitted by the state council of the state. Minister. The Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Þórhallsson's palace, covered the points we were discussing, and most of all were criticized. This is also highlighted in the committee's opinion. I don't think there's any reason to say that on springtime, when the council was finishing summer vacation, we were wondering what we could do on the committee, because even though the matter is not a great deal off, it's still a lot of articles, and there were many articles that came up. It was a great deal of work for the committee to go through this and make the changes needed to be settled. So we got what? Councilmen of Svavarsdóttir Svandís and Vilhjálmur Árnason to handle the case during the summer and perform changes in government and interest proposals and to listen to what they said and cooperate with the changes they felt would be most useful for the national park's work. It also went so beautifully that when the rest of us met the sunbrows and happy to work after summer vacation, they were done with the changes we are going through here. I want to give them a great deal of thanks for my work on this subject for the summer. I think we've come with a good conclusion. In this type of activity, it is normal to undergo changes at regular intervals in view of experience. It's been nine years since the National Park was adopted at a council, and it's only natural that we go through one thing and make changes. As mentioned in the case of what? paritaprevir Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson was the key to dealing with the problem. This bill contains a number of things that were completely at peace, but there were also factors that made bickering, in view of the fact that the ideologies behind the park's administration are to be a measure of power distribution and great and good for the local people. They believed that using the bill, it was being put at certain risk, i.e. they were turning off that path. It was soon discovered that there was absolutely no intention of the Ministry or those who had made these changes, and that this was why the change was so thorough in making, so that people could be content and would further achieve the goals of managing the park's system of ruling. Then a great deal of discussion was made on the location of the Commission, i.e. where he should be. When we have a garden that touches so many rural communities and is so vast, it is only natural for that discussion to arise. It is only natural for a person to feel that he is not in Reykjavík. But this is the case: Is it any more convenient for those who are south of the garden to go north to get into the office? On the contrary, we're all very technical today, and location is becoming less or less important. I therefore think that in all of this, people should seek in the future to try to keep the work close to the park itself and make a deal about where it is. Because it's not a big office, you could also move it at regular intervals. There would also be my knowledge. I come from a political party that has fought for and has worked on this mission without a location. I think we're going to need more in the administration business to start offering such jobs. It is easy in today's technological environment. It is no longer necessary to be physically present but may be via telecommunications etc. I'm not so worried about this relationship. I think to confirm that there is power distribution and a great deal of cooperation with the local people, it was important that the location of the executives of the Agency or the park is as close as possible to the park itself. A respectable president. According to all of this, there is a very important chapter in this committee party, which is the final chapter of the opinion, which deals with funding to the national park. It's a key thing. We look at it, like a snooze. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's palace referred to, not just for tourism, but for large films, an enormous increase in attendance in the park, and it has been determined. We have to start taking all these things much, much more serious than has been done, i.e. how we're going to let these great and growing tourist currents into our major natural bulbs and how we're going to respond to an increase in all kinds of activities related to Iceland's nature. It has had great and good advertising around the world, is the main attraction of tourists, and is the leading attraction of the movie sector. If we don't watch it, that warning will be damaged, because pure nature is a warning to us Icelanders, whom we've been selling and making a lot of money, and has set us up from the waves after a crash, I think we can all agree on. That's why it's so important. Therefore, it is important that we go through all this arrangement, as it is being done here, that there are certain issues that need to be clear, etc. But this does not make it possible for us to have awesome regulations or regulations and regulations on how to run governments, etc. and what the responsibility of the others and these are already involved in making money here in the hall is that we are concerned that increasing the stream of tourism may be damaging to Iceland's nature and national park, but then there's no money to keep up with it, so there's not enough money to run this thing. It is well stated in the review that money must be increased to the park's management, and we need to enter the infrastructure. It's not just in Lake Bay National Park. Let's watch the whole transport system on this land. Let us watch other locations all over the country, where people have made their way down to building along with increasing tourist currents. We've been stuck in disputes over who's to collect the fees of tourists, and we've spent all those years working on who's going to do it. We've wasted an important time. However, it is not merely the payment of tourists who are supposed to give us money for building up but that the government is facing a considerable increase in income money from the state fund because of increasing tourism. Therefore, we must preserve the government's revenue source by going into the infrastructure, from the funding that comes through the tourism. It hasn't been done. This has not been done to a sufficient degree. That's too bad. We're flying in travel service, and I'm one of those people who thinks we can tolerate this whole number of tourists and trust that these measurements are all right as long as we can secure structure. This does not mean that there are soaring bridges and acting as if there are only 330,000 deaths going around and around their land. There's nothing like that anymore. Last year, it was 1.2 million, and this year even 1.6 million are expected. These tourists are using all our infrastructure. They use the infrastructure in the capital area. They're using public transportation. They're using the road system. The whole system is under intense pressure, but at the same time, this government, as about transportation, says: It's a decision, a priority on government funds, not to place extra money on transportation. How much less she's going to accept some means of transportation, even if it's legal. I'm disappointed with all that stuff I'm saying here. I'm not trying to find something wrong with this government. I'm talking about this because the interests are so great. If we want to get the best of the article, we have to get these issues right, because there are other short - term reasons. In the long run, these things have to work out now. If we are to continue to earn this income from tourists, we need to build up plans. A respectable president. Then I'd also like to mention that in the discussion about Lake Earth park, you have to enter the discussion of national parks in the middle of the country. There has been a loud demand from both the halls and from the nation that work will be started to define the boundaries of such a park. There have been polls. Wasn't there a poll in the Morning Press, now I really don't remember? At least she showed up. 2/3 or well over 2/3 parts of the country wanted a national park in the middle of the country. The problem is, again, that we may have different ideas about where it is or where the line should lie. However, this does not change the responsibility of the governments who are now about to begin their work to define the limit and discuss it with the rest of us. Yes, people are definitely looking at that matter somewhere, but they need a broad conversation so that they can settle for a national park in the middle of the country. I call upon the link of this discussion that it will be, in turn, that it will be called for a cross-cutting and professional consultation on the boundaries of a new national park in the middle of the country. The left movement has presented a matter of Congress. We in the United States have, too, and we have concluded this, that I am holding two national meetings in a row. I know that a bright future supports that, and Pirantar will undoubtedly be. And then I know that members of the board of directors do the same. We should resolve to define this. I just see a parapolitic team of members here in the side hall of the hall so eagerly nod under this speech. I'm going to check in the side halls that there's a lot of tension in going to such a job. After my talk, I suppose we'll throw ourselves into it. This bill is a great improvement. This is an improvement for the park's activities, for the whole committee of this case is without warning. There are some factors that are being explained and clarified. As the above mentioned above, it is clear that the governance system of Lakehjörður Park is very different from other institutions and is normal, since this phenomenon is different from most of the other things we are running in this country today, that is, quite normal, and not all must be the same. That is why it is important that we pay close attention and respond when it comes to making adjustments and adjustments to explain and sharpen the role of those who serve there and to support their work because the legislation here is important to the National Guard and to all who work in the park, that they have a clear set of laws under what they are doing. Once again, I would like to encourage them to have a clear legal base then follow up on increased funding for the operation as soon as possible. I'd like to mention something else at the end, which we've discussed many times in the Committee, and not only during this terms but also during the last term, and I know why. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir has examined cases where she is former environmental minister, and it is a question of whether some kind of regime could be established for all national parks in Iceland, trying to get it together. We have national parks, each with its own control, and we also have different environments to function in and different roles. If we look at national funds, they too will be greatly mistaken. I remember some periods where, for example, you know... The park on Snæfellssi got nothing. Right now, when the tourism is growing so important, it's important that he doesn't forget, when we're all looking at a Lake Earth park and its important role. I therefore think that this might be clever, although I'm not going to tell myself about it. If work then reveals a flaw over that arrangement, I'm willing to revise my mind. But as it is now, I think it might be clever to think that we have the only control over all of this that could set the priorities for the money that we at the Council of Nations to go to national parks, because that government according to its professional knowledge and knowledge had a much greater and better perspective on it than we do what we have to do where and we trust them in that assignment as well. A respectable president. Finally, I'm going to thank you again. The members of Vilhjálmur Árnason and Sigis Svavarsdóttir for doing this work so well and getting along about the matter and the Chairman for setting things straight. By the way, I hereby declare that I am on this case, and we in the United States support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir' speech. I can agree with what it said that this bill and the current changing proposals greatly improve the park. What interested me in having a word with the senator was an introductory discussion of the location of the management office of the National Park. I can totally agree with the conclusions here that the government normally makes. This is an activity that should, in fact, be able to move on depending on the circumstances and stay at any of the park's work stations. However, I would like to ask the senator about the current arrangement. One of the biggest surprises I've ever seen in Icelandic government is when I realized that the park's manager is actually a private work station in the capital area. Various institutions of the Environment Ministry are located in the capital area, offices of other national parks are in the capital area, so they were at least directly affected by the fact that this office was located in cooperation with other institutions. In most parts of the country, where there is a single - culture network, it is tried to place them in agreement with others, in some kind of knowledge center. So I would like to ask if this particular point had not been discussed in the Committee or in the committee's discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. It all came up in that discussion, completely everything. This was taken up at many meetings and was much discussed, the location, the position of national parks, the manager and the government, all of this was very much discussed. When it is opened like this, in which the government arrangement is so different from other institutions, it is only natural that many feel that way. We decided to have a very open mind about the possibility of a change. And this change in making this decision to the government is based on our confidence that there will be a professional decision on such matters, i.e. where the manager should be located and how his work environment should be. I have my private opinion on this. In order to make it a goal to be a source of authority and a strong cooperation with the local people, I thought it would be normal and better, also a Dutch, that the manager, whether one, two or more in the future, or the work station, would be near the National Park, i.e. in the rural areas around the world, so it's safe to move there. That's what I say even though I've been giving a talk about it earlier, it doesn't matter where people were located because of the technology, but sometimes it's important. I think it's in this case. I'm not going to have any particular opinion as to whether an executive needs to be with others or just be alone. But I think that's right. A senator points out that being in a greater community usually brings us closer results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Next thing I'd like to ask is the senator's vision of the future structure and the order of national parks in Iceland. It is, of course, the same as the senator did well. What I have considered in particular and would have wanted to hear the senator's attitude is the order of nations and the manner in which the future ship of nations is to share a discussion of the future order of national parks and possibly national parks on the central highlands. Now it may be that the senator hadn't really thought about it, but I believe she had at least something's going on. And perhaps there will be any discussion with this discussion in the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u25	V.E.G. President. I have to admit, I've never been particularly good at being a part of the foreign world. On the other hand, I generally believe that we should try to have the greatest perspective on this central, i.e. that the perspective is in one place. I mentioned earlier that I thought it normal for the National Parks to think that we have the only government over all the parks that would, in fact, have the responsibility to be a professional patrol with those decisionmakers on where to build up and where to make money. Throughout this discussion, I am always ready and open to changes that will lead to a powerful outdoor activity. I think this relationship is to be taken into the debate on national parks in the middle of the country and the opinion of it. No doubt they will. I'm very excited about developing a national park in the middle of the country, and I share it with you, I think most of the members of the council in this room. I've missed not discussing what that park should look like, because I don't think everyone is in the same place with what it's supposed to be like. I think the big task now is to start that conversation wide and start trying to subtract us to where we're going to end up with such a national park because we all want it. It is best for me to start the work as soon as possible to get the best results. Let's get out of the thrift, make this parapolitic, and try to get some decent solidarity on that assignment. I think it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u26	President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. All can agree that we need to be careful about our national parks, but there seems to be discrepancies in the way they operate. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Congress, for the whole highland has been discussed to make it a national park, whether it would really strengthen the rest, whether they would definitely follow the money so as to properly drive the national park, and whether the senator thinks we need to change some of the administrations around these most and most precious things, I will not tell the nation's property, but what we have to do for the future generations. - It's a little weird around here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u27	The president has previously announced that there is some malfunction, but the president closely monitors the timing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u28	You can't figure out how much you can talk. It's like you always get more time, it's a dream situation. What I'm most curious about is, if we set up a national park for the whole central highlands and what we have to do to fix the situation today, it will strengthen our present parks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u29	President. I want to thank you. A senator for this question. In recent years, evolution has been a bit, so the Lake Earth has received a lot of attention. The funds have been going there, but they're not enough and far away. It's all right, I'm not gonna say very well, but it's tore up in the commission that there's an increase in the number of employees, funding for various projects and infrastructure. We have very powerful people, and you think we need idealists to work around this park, and we have them. We're lucky. But we can't make endless demands on these few heads, and we need to put more money in there. However, although in recent years a lake park may have received most of its attention, it has not had enough. At the same time, we have other national parks. I took as an example the ancient National Park on the Great Pearl of Snæfells, where there's a great attraction for tourists with increasing tourist flows. We haven't put enough money there at all. So I have cast it forward, and we have a few in this discussion whether it is best for the gardens themselves, and the same thing is true when a national park in the middle of the country is formed - I know that it will be so, and I hope that it will be soon - that one government will be placed above all these national parks that would make decisions about it based on professional grounds for whatever money we at the Council would put on national parks. It may also give us the perspective needed over all the parks so that we could make decisions based on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u30	President. I thank you very much for that answer, and I'm kind of going to have to agree. Senator. I think it's very urgent that we take care of our national parks, give money to them, and now this is particularly urgent because this is, of course, one of the heads of the world's popularity among tourists. The reason why I set up the heart of the Highland is that if we have a chance to meet that challenge, then you expect a complete view of how we can drive all our national parks properly and impart the knowledge that has already been acquired, e.g. With a Lake Seven-Elven Park Naturally, that park needs a lot of extramarital care, not just a magnificent nature but a number of dangers in this place, whether by nature itself or by man. I hope this is where Congress is headed now, it now seems that there are certain partying in all categories, but there are, of course, elections to protect our country and a lot of moaning in the heart of Iceland. I'd like to know what it is. A senator counts, if we set up a large national park in the highlands, if this could lead to a more efficient pursuit of funds and knowledge for these important projects to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u31	President. I'm gonna let myself agree wholeheartedly. Senator. This discussion has changed so much since just a few years ago when men viewed nature's protection as somehow opposed to employment. Now we are much longer in our discussion, and it is much more about how we can protect this attraction and the income source that is Icelandic nature. If we destroy it, we will lose this revenue source. Maybe we can watch it cold like that. Of course, it is natural to protect nature for reasons, but I think this increased solidarity or growth in nature is also due to economic reasons. We can't walk around on nature just any way we want. Because of what? The senator mentioned the number of tourists who come to look at these pearls, so I must admit that I have also changed my very views on such matters as this. Access control of natural bulbs. We had a dream for perhaps six, seven, eight years that one cent could be paid by the gate at Cheflavík, so people should go free and we would take care of protecting nature with that money. The situation today is just different. With tourists going along with this, we're going to 2 million, and then more, with this super-growing growth, we've just come to a very different place. We're about to have to control this much, much better if we're not going to get into trouble and damage Iceland's nature as well as its sector. We need to go through this discussion. We may need to ask ourselves, and it is also about the security issues: How should we reach all these tourists who go through the parks? [[The president calls.]] It may be necessary to do so by somehow directing people into and inside them. [[The president calls.]] We need to start discussing it for real.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u32	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to correct the change in the law on the Lakewater nation park. This is a bill based on a particular review obligation, which was sewed into the Law on Earth's Lakes National Park, No. 60/2007. Then, as soon as January 2013, the park's administrative arrangements were to be reviewed in cooperation with state and rural society. That work was started in 2012/2013. Then, in August of that year, the task force concluded a review of the European Commission of the Earth's Earthly National Park. Thus, we are, in fact, still based on the 2007 law frame, as well as on the ideologies that were laid to the ground, because Lake earth became a nation's head. I think it is appropriate to pause in this discussion that great emphasis was placed on the fact that the foundation was a very broad political and professional solidarity, that the very foundation of the lakeland park was at peace and shared because it was important that the park be under the name of the decision taken away from the release of elections or political removals at any given time. Thus, and in view of this solidarity and this perspective and this prehistory, we felt totally obliged to look for ways to make peace with the bill as discussed here. However, it is most recently reported that the bill as it came from the Environment Ministry caused quite a stir. The concern was that this controlled administration of the park was being reduced, as well as a dramatic increase in media control. These concerns were expressed both in meetings of the Committee and in the reviews of the bill. The committee agreed that such anxiety within the table was unacceptable. Because of this, as shown here, only in the history of the struggle. Chairman of the Committee and what. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, we tempted the committee to bring them back to each other's viewpoints and to settle matters better. This put special work into operation this summer, and the proposal for this discussion is a product of that work, i.e. A product of the work that was designed to make things more comfortable and to reduce the suspicion that existed in the case. This cooperation was primarily in the management of the park, the Environment and Resource Ministry, and then with certain stakeholders that shared these views with us. We all felt very bad if we had the bill and the review to upset the great peace that had been about the foundation of the park in our time. The reason for that thought, at least At the hand of the one standing here, it was not just about a Lake Earth park but also about the discussion that has only been killed here, i.e. The discussion of a possible central nation park. We know that such a national park will not be attacked unless we have a comparable basis for agreement. I might get a little more involved with that from now on. I'd like to mention a few points on these matters, perhaps not so much about a single technical solution that is well explained in committees and adaptations, but rather about the size we have in our hands, which is neither more nor less than the largest, or the second largest, there are several tools on it, a national park in Europe. It's at least the largest peace-installed territory in the country, and there's a lot of activity growing from year to year. We know that the expansion of the work requires a considerable increase in the scope of both the workers, the funds, the professional backlands, and other factors needed to build a good national park. We have a special section of the Committee that deals with budgetary contributions to the park. It may not be customary for the WHO professional committee to do so. However, we felt that it was very important in view of this case in particular that the whole committee lets the message pass through across the crosspolitic process that we felt the need for a significant increase in money to run the park. There must be significant improvements in infrastructure and adequate conditions within the park, increasing the number of workers working at the headquarters themselves, and at the same time - and in return. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's Alice Saevar's daughter earlier had a discussion about the office and this small station - especially if the committee is growing in the park's office with increasing activity. This is not because we are particularly interested in many employees in the offices in general but perhaps much more because the park's very professional backyard needs to be developed. It is important for national guards, landkeepers, and others in the field to be able to collect from the construction of a strong, professional backland based on research, knowledge, and proper financing. There's no such thing as today. Even workers on the Ark - land guards, National Guards, or others - need to resolve matters too much from day to day. The same applies to projects that should be in a professional background, but even in the hands of the park's national administration, which is designed in a particular way, but which would have to be handled much better in place of a more efficient professional station. An element to be included is the interaction of Lake Earth's national park and its structure, the national governance and protection programme, and then the new disposal of nature protection laws. We discussed the importance of composing the laws and perhaps more of the law with what is found in the newly released nature protection laws. We believe that there is a need to consider whether there is a special agreement between the laws found in nature protection laws and the legislation on the control of Lake earth, especially by road transport. We think there's something to look into. We also believe that it is important to keep the national viewpoint in mind when discussing the interaction between public rights and increasing travel services found in preliminary laws on nature protection, No. 60/2013. Environmental Ministers are required to provide a bill on that matter at the fallfloor of 2017 the last. There may be one of the largest and most complex topics involved in protecting Iceland's nature, just this interaction between the long-term public free access to the country in order to enjoy it and then to explore and then increase the pressures caused by increased tourism and employment unions that actually build their base in Iceland's nature. There is a limit to us that we can do the time we have to complete it for the appointed time, but at the same time, it is unacceptable, except that this trial is clear. How vital that this right is explained in an acceptable way! I'd like to consider factors that are interconnected with the Waterland Park with other peaceful areas and national parks. It was discussed only in the previous answers. There have been studies at various levels and at the scene of the Environment and Resource Council when the person present had the Environment and Resource Minister's office to integrate their tasks better. I know why. paritaprevir The negative Anna Sævarsdóttir knows that during the current terms, it has also been considered to integrate specifically the tasks of peace-reporting regions, national parks and other projects that are being carried out under the Environment and Resource Ministry. It would be fascinating to hear an answer at what time. A senator's greatest challenges were to that assignment, for there are a considerable number of them. It is important that we arrive here at some point in non-politic work on these matters. Always getting caught up in some political dead end with a case like this in the process of election or whatever it is and never really being able to get a proper grip on the matter, it's unacceptable. But there is something that we see happening repeatedly. The situation is that we have over 100 nonviolent territories in the country. There are various forms of extramarital activities, peace conditions and conservation values in various ways and in many ways. We have three different national parks that hear under three different institutions and two different departments. Even with staff of two national parks or two institutions beside each body, we're working for the Icelandic State to protect Iceland's nature for long futures and future generations. We're actually dealing with both manpower and capital when we do it this way. And I think it's important that we control all of this thinking with what we're looking at how we get a central nation park and plan to get it started. As noted, the establishment of a central national park or a contemporaneous proposal is to investigate the criteria and definition of a central national park for a discussion on a transport committee. It is a matter held by a council of the left - green but is a matter that has received considerable cross - political support, both at the council and outside the council, by subversive movements, and by various bodies. But then it happens to someone few months before he reaches the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister initiates work under the Ministry where it hides officials by the presence of subversive motions to explore the basis of the regional capital. Therefore, it should be welcomed as political support for the matter, but it is odd to say that in a sense the minister is interrupting the matter, as well as worrying. I think there's something we need to discuss, even though it has been discussed here only with the minister of the unsubstantiated question period, that it is important for such a project that it is also being worked on in a translucent position. I have hoped that in the turn of elections, this will be discussed, and I noticed at the meeting of the people held this weekend, although not all classes were represented in the special seminary that covered exactly the Middleland National Park, everyone was at the local meeting, with a hyperbole, that this was important to review. I think we should keep doing that. I also think that the understanding that there is a combination of protection and access, protection and education, is increasing, and people also see that a park is not about shutting down and banning but also about establishing different local protection values and that some areas are not allowed to touch while others are being made even practicing traditional agriculture and other crops without any threat to the National Park. It has also been discussed as to whether such a national administration system should be the same as the administrative arrangements for Lake Earth's natural world. Of course, that is a completely special thought, and it is also a reason for reconciliation with the Lake plain park in its day that it is not just a central government but a regional body. It is recommended that the local people have both the nerves and the best knowledge of the region, the natural world and the environment, and so on. The Regional Council then has representatives in the park's administration. There, we work together in a most unusual and creative way, a complete vision and a strong approach to the local people. It seems to me that it would be very important to be at the bottom, so to speak, in the administration of a central nation park, to have a coordinated and central view of the most important but also to ensure the presence of the locals, both in everyday affairs, and also in policy-making, etc. We see in all legislation, management, emphasis and development on these aspects of nature protection over the past few years and decades that we are moving away from central management, toward more distribution control. We are getting more involved in the way that nature protection is actually supposed to be at home. It would not be enough to control all nature protection from some central, invisible place. This is extremely important. At the same time, we face the challenge in Iceland, where almost two thirds of the country live in the capital area, with little or no geographic access to these important environmental environments to ensure a common understanding of the national park and a common sense of having the park together. It is a journey that we need to find out how to approach, for it is reasonable that all the people of the land have in some sense the national park to live up to its name as such. I know why. paritaprevir Implicit Anna Sævarsdóttir, whom I am here repeatedly addressing, especially since she is sitting here in the hall, also interested in discussing nationalities and interacting with those factors, i.e. to peaceful territories, national parks, nationalities, and how we put together strings in all the areas in which the State operates in any way. I find it very exciting to think that here we can coordinate and integrate. I think there's something we should look at, too. But I say it again, because we rest. A senator has good experience with this in any unorthodox case, i.e. Revision of new foreigners, that we not only move mountains in the name of more part at the General but we have to do it transnational. I believe that a central nation park or some overall barrier to environmental protection in Iceland must be that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's speech and review of these important matters that are involved in the order of national parks, protection and use of the land. Partly, the answer was "what." A senator what I was interested in asking in, but I might just do it a little further. On the one hand, it must be in the daily management board of these areas. There's one mission. Then there are some forms of management that turn them toward those who want to be allowed to use or allow some activity inside the areas we want to protect or reserve for a specific use, called national parks or reservations. Then there are various projects, the oversight of the land, the possession of the land. It is simply about knowing the area, knowing where sensitive spots are, and depending on what you need to look for. In this area, we have the natural knowledge in different parts of the administration. In the EEA, there's a lot of administrative knowledge. It is mainly a administrative agency except where natural protection is being controlled. That's where the geystics and stuff come in. Then we have the national parks, where there has become considerable experience in oversight of land. Then we have such institutions as land transplants and forestry, where there is great experience in thinking about land and cooperation with others who are thinking about land or who are in charge and control of land. That is why I feel that it is so important to know how we can make all of this play together wisely.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u34	A respectable president. There's nothing I can do to answer that question more than the senator. I think we have a similar connotation that we know these structures quite well and know what is going on in place. But we do not have a final answer to how this would be best. Still, we agree that the situation today is not the best. I agree with what. A senator says that we have tremendously strong institutions that are partly involved in projects that are a core project in their activities, such as the EEA's administrative projects and the work of Landing and Foresting, which are different. I think it calls for, and it may be my answer, a will that is cross-cutting and cross-cutting, to complete the changes that are in plain sight of having to go on. I've had experience in breaking into the Environment Ministry and planning to make all kinds of changes to the development industry. In this department there are ten other institutions, where they could be reasoned that there should be three or five of them or something like that, something completely different from what they are. However, the nature of the matter is in accordance with and for political reasons, both here at the council and out in the community, due to also suspicion, deserved or not, in the community, with the rural communities, etc., a lot of weight for changing. I know why. A senator also knows this from his work that she has taken up with the current environmental minister. I'm suggesting what you're thinking. Senator. I believe that if we're going to put strings together, we could benefit from these programs with experts at the good institutions we're discussing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answer is that I think it is reasonable to believe that the next step will be taken in broad cooperation, both political and multilingual, because we sometimes feel that we, often and often, may be too few professionals in this area, but there are still some specialities. Who sees his work as the most important thing, as it goes. But I want to come in on two other things. Hv. A senator only entered the national estate. The development of that assignment, a national service project, is that the State is taking over a considerable amount of land. If I understand correctly in the administration, there have been considerable differences in how a person handles that country, whether it's merely that the limit has been defined. It may then be that other institutions are coming to administration and to oversee that country. For example, if there were a national park in the middle of the country. It would probably be part of that conversation, and whether to get it out of the National Park and Protective idea or from the National Mission as such, or just take it all together in one discussion. Then there is the introduction of public and amateur associates. Where natural protection organizations and societies were formed in the country as early as 1970, when the idea of protection was being introduced into society, this was more developed into a central organization. I think it's very important that if there's a wide level of reconciliation that somehow these activities will be promoted throughout the country. [[The president calls.]] How does the senator see this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u36	President. Thank you. A senator of interest. I would like to, before reacting to them to add a little perspective that I have not had here in my speech or answers, which are the viewpoints of research and development, i.e. the research community, colleges, etc. I think it's very important in a new and growing industry that we support research and development in tourism, but it's just as important to support basic research in nature or nature research, basic research there. That's what I'd like to say. So we base our decisions on sound knowledge. Hv. A senator asks if we can provide for ourselves, so I paraphrase what she says, and she shakes her head if I'm wrong, a common outside of a reservation under traditional prowess and peoples, or if this must be separated. I believe that it is a very exciting challenge to have a common agency of some sort - we would probably have to try to have some more exciting name on it - that would be a job of holding a country on the side of the government, or society if we wanted to call it so. Because there are often ways of doing things, there is also certain overlaps that we often see. Hv. A senator also ponders the approach of the public and of the subherent organizations. I completely agree with that as it is. A senator says. Using new nature protection laws, it was trying to enhance the influence of rural society and to increase the importance of local knowledge in legislation. I think that's how we can encourage this, by pushing both the law and our understanding that we need the home man. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u37	A respectable president. In many respects, the subject being discussed is worth much. I'm on it. There have been very positive changes in the management of environmental and transport committees, particularly after two episodes. In the summer, members of the committee began to skim off the major ills. That one. The members of the council are Vilhjálmur Árnason and Zaggi Svavarsdóttir. And much agreement has been made on this matter in the committee. This may not be particularly large or complex, but it is adjustments to the code of law by which Lake Earth lives. But for this reason, there is a fine opportunity to take the discussion that has been going on with national parks and the arrangements we have in this land. I'd like to say, as others have done here, that the arrangement that is used for the operation of a Lakefloor park with these regional conventions, where the residence of local people is guaranteed, is, of course, because the park is very wide and wide. It's been shown very successful. Working things that way is working very well. Among what has been revealed to me in this committee's work, it is that when and if people were to start a national park in the middle of the country or expand a Lake earth and unite it with a national park that covered the central areas of Iceland, this arrangement would be very successful to ensure that those living in the vicinity of the park and have interests in the area of the country. Of course, it would be desirable to be able to expand the Lakeland park, create a centralland park that covered the central highlands, and spread into the Lake earth's park. It would also be desirable for the existing national parks, the Þingvagal parks, and the Snæfells of Israel's national park, to regroup in the hands of this large national park in the central highlands and in the lakelands so that it would become one of the upper institutions, a national park, that would be controlled by the control of these parks. For this I believe that it should be possible to achieve a somewhat parapolitic stand. In the motions of the so - called economic group of the government, which began in this terms of election, as well as in others. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and who. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson, chairman and vice president of the budget board, was one of the suggestions the group proposed for the operation of the Parliamentary National Park to be united with other operations and construction of national parks and peaceful areas and to form one organization that would take control of these regions. In this discussion today, we hear that similar viewpoints are actually within all political parties represented at the General Assembly. Sadly, there has not been any of the plans that appeared to us in the proposals of the government's economist of this terms, but it shows at least that these ideas should not meet much opposition within the political parties representing the council. It would be wish that we would go just as far as the government's economist group suggested when he said in his own suggestions and lyrics that within such an institution we also have a peace - declared territory, because we have several different kinds of land owned by public property. There are people who are under the Ministry of Presidency, that is a peace-lit region most of which are in the management of the EEA, there are special areas like Thors, where the forestry is in charge, and then we have national parks. Of course, it would be desirable and natural for us to oversee all these areas in one hand and within one institution. I was the last to meet this morning at the Þingvall Committee, where I've been a member of the Committee in the past few years, during this terms and in the last, and in the administration of a national park. This is now about a number of special committees, for it is reserved only for local members of the park but is the government of the national park. This has shown more than any other great opportunity to set aside certain areas, subjecting them to special government, oversight, and responsibility, as the National Park has been done on the United States Hall. Therefore, I'd like to say that it was normal in today's situation that we were going to consider these matters to be intertwined in the way we plan these areas. It would be on one hand how we'd build up plans to distribute crowds, in one place we'd decide how to focus on the meaning, build up the steps, where to allow the campers, where to be permitted traffic, and how different types of tourism, bicycle riding, walking, SUV, motorists, motorcycles, and skiing can go together within these areas. And then, of course, just a general natural experience, depending on all these categories. It is a work that has been done in many lands, especially in lands around us. For example, I specifically mention Norway and Scotland. I was just traveling around Scotland. What a fine example this is for us today! Building is far away, the organization is very good. It is the unambiguous experience of those who attend the national parks home in Scotland that this is under public supervision, is the property of the people, and is thought of for everyone. It's not for some narrow group, it's not a question of economy, it's for everyone to enjoy and get involved with nature. Which is exactly part of the task we receive within the Þingalva committee, where the declared national policy is to try to buy up the countries and the country that have been taken for the cottages set aside for a summer home within the park during the last century. The committee has been very faithful to the extent possible because of its assignment, when houses or lands are released, or they are buying and selling, the committee has a premium that she has used, in effect, to all cases where it is possible to do so. Is it declared to be the policy of the Committee and the management of the Þingalval National Park. Why is this done? Yes, it is because the national park is the nation. The whole area should be heard under the public. It should have the same access for everyone. It is not the idea that people who have more money than others can buy special territory there, shut them down, and keep them to themselves. It is simply part of human rights in my opinion to have access to cleaner and more beautiful nature. I'm not already talking about such a sacred place in the history of this country as I am. It is particularly important that we make sure that the availability and access are totally independent of the economy. Among the points discussed in the panel's discussion of the current issue was the location of the headquarters of Lakejörbjörður Park. Whether or not they should be in the park. In many ways you can agree that it would be desirable if you could do so, that the headquarters would be there. Of course, on the other hand, there are four different areas of the park. There are several national guards that take care of certain areas. The greatest economic situation involved, and they have pointed out that they can meet in the capital area, in Reykjavík, where there is another government, and where most of the public business has taken place in the national park. There are, of course, reasons that contradict each other. But they can imagine that if such a government agency, a national park, would be established, it would be normal for the administrative body to have headquarters in the capital area and then to have such regional governments and services in the park itself that would carry out tasks that were especially related to the areas. It has also been discussed with national parkers who have been authorized to close specific areas, e.g. due to the risk of some kind of damage or natural disaster, but also to certain projects such as Movie projects. Then, of course, we need to discuss: Is it enough to make a small short photo that might not be the only way to justify the fact that people close certain parts of the park? What is required for the end? To me, you should try hard not to use them. I think there should always be something else to turn into a moviemaker. This is actually a point that is somewhat unsolvable and that is not taken away in any thorough manner. It needs to be kept for a better time. Of course, it can be noted that on a large number of film projects, such as the film project. Of course, those who have been carried out on southern Lake glaciers, in the reptiles there, have an enormous presentation, both on land and then on the national parks. And, of course, it is part of the work to be done in the park trying to attract people there, to get people into nature, to go to the parks, and to experience it. I would imagine that with a more powerful organization that would control a larger land area than a lakeland park, we could do much more than we do today. Treat this part of the operation much further, this presentation of nature and its value. Of course, we have young people who may not find employment at the urban pay, who may receive some compensation, that is, a lot of young men, our boys, who are trapped in front of their computer and who may benefit from getting to work as national park workers. It is a bit ironic to look at the fact that projects are going on in this country that are carefully developed from abroad, the dozens that are just positive, nothing at all, no steps in the parks, the Thors' border, and the Mountainback and other countries. These are people who volunteer to come. At Thor's threshold, it is at the scene of the Forest State, where a most exemplary work has been carried out. The people come and receive food and lodging, which is only tentification, and they work on a stepping - building system that we all benefit from. Why do people do this? Yes, it is a wonderful experience for that. These are very beautiful areas, it's rewarding work, and it's good for everyone to clean up in the wild. Of course, we Icelanders are supposed to have some kind of work going on in which we invite young people, our people, from 16◯25 years of age or under 30 years of age, to take action and not leave their behind to build up national parks. Not only would it be desirable for the national parks to be introduced to the future generations who will receive our country that part of the country, but it is also an enormously positive and beneficial experience for the individuals involved. It's a little sad, that we won't try to get our young people more involved. Indeed, there are quite a few young Icelanders who do a great work in Lake Bay. In summer, however, I learned about the quality and positive structure of the area that has been under attack. It's a pity that present governmental parties have not done better than they do in getting money to finish and finish the Kappus Way. It's a great area. It offers tremendous opportunities and can receive much more from tourists. Getting people in these areas is very positive. This is a marvelous natural nature that is on the move, and it would be much more desirable for us to put money on building wood that would be useful in such projects rather than spending billions of public money building a major industry like those on the edge of the Húsavík and that has, of course, led to the destruction of the The Watchtower field. You wonder, " What is this for? ' Who the hell for? Not without the opportunity to travel in Húsavík. There's a crowded town of tourists there. I'd also like to mention it at the end when it comes to a lakeland park, because it has been building up a very high level of activity that revolves around so-called glaciers, that it is the public's experience with nature, an enormously sustainable. Allowing people to go up on the glacier and walk through it, inspecting glaciers, seeing evidence that the glaciers are floundering large, has a very large educational purpose. It is a powerful experience for people to witness the climate, the changes in the climate right in front of them. And then there's a very environmental experience, i.e. There are no negative effects of these walkings on the environment. Unless it is possible that people would leave behind some garbage in the area that is tried to prevent and go very well in most cases I know about. This is what I wanted to mention here in connection with the bill, which is such a management system that has been extremely successful. But there is much greater ambition in these matters. Sadly, the government categories, which proposed this proposal at the beginning of their terms, were unable to do anything about changing these institutions of national parks and peaceful areas in Iceland. Although it is clearly willing and supportive, it has not worked. But I have high hopes that it will succeed, and after the election, transnationally agree to take it seriously and do it in a very good way. Creates one real national park agency that supervises and governes the country in which the public is in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He's on the board of the National Park, and I'd like to ask him a few questions about a discussion that took place earlier in this discussion, two talks earlier or so, as to whether it was not right to put only one government over all these national parks. Then I'm talking about Lake Seven National Park, Snowing Seven, and also the Þingvaval National Park. If you want to go a little slower, you could save the Þingvaval National Park but the idea is that we have some professional control over these things that will come out of national security, infrastructure, and nature protection, all of the things we have to go after, would have some sort of kirries and could therefore be arranged at the right places of money, which we would normally put in to national parks, and make sure that all the parks were actually in the same place when it came into decisionmaking. Sadly, over a period of time, a considerable amount of money had to be placed on the Capitol, much more than was given to the people. It's under a lot of pressure on nature. Similarly, the Snæfellshjörg has been left out. You have wondered, " Is it not also more reasonable to us here working with these national parks to provide us with a better view of the whole project? ' Because of what? A senator knows this from within, and I'd like to know who his view is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u39	A respectable president. Hv. A senator puts out very good questions here. You are quick to find out when you are in the King of the National Park, how much potential it is for such unity to make your own income. Of course, when you see as much tourist current as you can see on the Matrix making a huge amount of money in the box, the tools and equipment must also be there to do so as the law on the Capitol Garden has enabled us to do so, i.e. install collections for parking lots, payment for diving in Silfra, guest rooms, sales of knowledge, etc. Then, of course, this is an opportunity for us to manage the crowds so that we can be around these places in a sustainable way. We can mention the Valley of Smoke above Hoaling, as an example of a place that is not being around in a sustainable manner. They're walking on nature. It may have been tried with a weakness, with a structure on the platform system and a fixtures on the path. This is obvious to any who came there ten years ago and then back now. I used to go there myself sometimes on an active day, camping one night, and then just came to work the next day because it's near the capital area, but it's absolutely impossible that you can live that place today the same way you did ten years ago. He's gone as such. It tells us that we need to control the structure and have it fully prepared for our objective. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, all these places end up like Venice, all of which are completely ruined by the flow of tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u40	A respectable president. I totally agree with what. Senator on this. I can say here, and I told you before that I've changed my mind about this myself. On one occasion, I felt that we were likely to get one fee somewhere from tourists, e.g. Just when they come to the land or through the host's fees, and then they should go into a pot and spread for building through the country. Since then, the landscape has changed completely. We are not talking about a few hundred thousand tourists, but this year it is predicted that they will be 1.61.7 million. And the growth continues. It means that if we're going to ensure that the natural nature of Iceland, the main attraction force to the country, remains uninhabited and will remain attractive, if we're going to both protect nature and secure the foundations of the industry, we'll have to take control of the access. It's so simple. That's what we do best if we pay our bills. It's just a question of how it'll be best, so we won't be with each corner at another corner in Icelandic nature. All of this is possible and has been done before. This is about making a mutual decision to implement all of this, to have a plan on what people want to do. This does not change, however, because we will always have to put much money away from the government to these places. That's where we've failed. We've been trapped far too long in arguing over who to collect this fee. Meanwhile, we have wasted precious time that we would otherwise have had built up around the country. The Kingdom has failed. Like what? This government has not been able to provide enough money to ensure the safety of tourists on the roads of the country or the nature of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] It's going to cost all the money. We need to face it, get the money, and share it out as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u41	A respectable president. Of course, it is regrettable to see that what has marked the grasp of present governmental classes in this category and the structure that would have been necessary to attack at the beginning of this election period is short - lived and careless. That's no coincidence. It's basically the principle of ideologies at least One of the members of the board is not to interfere, it would be negative in some way to divide things, to let them take place on a free market, and by themselves, things will resolve in some way. This carelessness and release will bring us destruction of land and much damage to society and nature. That is why we need to change our government in this country, which we see, and take this way much more seriously than has been done. It won't be done soon enough. You're absolutely right. A senator points out, it is possible in a directed way to provide funds for these sites, but those who know best about the projects facing the locals. It is normal to create some kind of system where people can collect locally for access to the area and obtain some kind of fee. Of course, it is normal for those who exploit places, move tourists, make money in nature, receive some of the resources of some kind of resource that then run to build up in the situation, so that the security of those who have been assured will be certain to come to these places, as in some cases. It must be ensured as much access as possible to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u42	A respectable president. Thank you. One of his extensive talks ended up with a great knowledge of the subject. First, I wanted to bring him in because when we were working on a water - cold park, there was some conflict between different groups that took advantage of land, traffic, and footmen to form, whether or not the different interests in the organization we are with now, or if there is something more needed to work on the development of the organization in order to solve it. Then they talk. A senator for one national park, I suppose, he thinks the Matrix is one of the national parks that would fall under it. I think it's normal. But I'd like to ask him if he didn't think it was normal for the Senate to continue its own litigation because of the historic role held by the Þinglei and the U.S. Senate weekend in the history of the United States and democracy, or how he envisions it. In the second answer, I may be able to bring in the senator to see if he thinks we can guarantee the arrival of the local people in some way if we have one centralised country for all the parks, whether the arrangement is before each area does not do anything to increase the impact of local people on the development of national parks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u43	A respectable president. I'll answer the last one first. As I said in my speech, I think the arrangements for the Regional Council were very effective. I think it is the very key to combat the prejudices that may have been too great for the idea of national parks and that this idea lies first and last in shutting down some particular land area. This may also be related to the discussion as a matter of course. In opposition to different interests, a senator began to oppose us and how this conflict has appeared to us. It may be best to appear to us, if you take one example, in the decision of a Lakehjörður Park to test the closing of specific areas on the road to Hope on the northwest part of a Lakejork park, between Bjords, sort of Bjords, and seven cold, and then the so - called Vikrafells Way. Of course, there would be great opposition. I was one of those who thought that this closing would be a good look. It would not necessarily be possible for humans to drive anywhere and whenever they wanted. But when the piece arrived and the men started counting traffic in this area, I'm specifically talking about the Hope Pass, over one summer there were no more than 70 people walking there, so there may be no reason to be specifically shutting down on the SUV traffic around the area. There's not that much conflict between them. Of course, these differences will not be solved exactly by the access of outdoor parties, traveling companions, etc., so that there is access to a level of decision making in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers and expect to hear about the weekend in the second answer. There is also something so poetic in planning to close the Pass of Hope. But let's leave it in the middle. I wanted to ask the senator, because he is so well versed in these matters if there are any areas where he thinks it would be useful for him to crash under the park, i.e. which the State should buy, the local park, or be important. And also because he had a natural point of dealt with the gradual development of a major industry within the national parks, which is all this tourism, how he sees it develop. Now we can see that cab drivers are paying Isvia for getting passengers south of Cheflavík Airport and I would like to ask if he can support himself, as business increases with the nature of the country's environment within the regions, that it will develop a currency for the access of companies who walk on the glaciers or within the park with tourists and are actually selling access to nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u45	President. It has been written that both Hjörleifur and Ingólfur, the settlers who first arrived in Iceland, have been named as the first settlers. Ingólfur took possession of the city in Reykjavík and Hjörleifur. Yet, Ingólfur is always called the first settlers beyond Hjörleifur. I've sometimes said that when that time, people were leaning on the rest of the country. Now Hjörgoffres are for sale, and Hjörfjörn has quite a wide range of land that leads up to the peoples. This is a fine example of territory that should, of course, be owned by the nation. The same can be said of a jingle under a British glacier, which, of course, is to be owned by all the people of the country. Amongst those parks and areas, not only in this country but in all the world, is the experience not only of nature but also of culture and history. This is part of the management program that the Þingalva committee has with the National Park in the United States to handle it exactly as it is. Senator brings up, the weekend. It is very important to maintain the link between the Generals and the Þingalvals that are ensured by the arrival of members of the Parliament to the Constitution committee in some way. I think that's an excellent idea for a man. A senator and a good thought were to maintain some sort of link so that the ethic and the role and part of the National Park on the Capitol were still associated with the council in one way or another. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u46	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in the law of Lake Earth and there's a series of practical adjustments to the national park. I'm just going to start by thanking the Commission for a very thorough and good review of the committee that reviews the need to explain the power limits to the national administration of the park, to put into law more closely the definition of the work and responsibility of the Commission, and to a change of order, without accepting the ideologies built upon which the park's organization rests authority, it is important that it be responsible for its development in the area where he is. It is Iceland's vastest national park, and it is in the East, Southeast, and it reaches Northeast. This is a very important area for us Icelanders and it is vital that we clearly explain how to manage it. I come up here because I'm part of the country that wants Iceland's center to become a national park. On this point, in the United States, we have passed a synod and a group of left greens have brought a comparable synonym and then have been signed by the Declaration of the Nature Protection Agency, a curfew and a travel agency for this project and thought that it is a significant step towards an increase in nature protection in Iceland and to ensure continued infinity that attracts a number of people to experience the natural world of Iceland. So I would like to point out that the central highlands have great value as natural areas and have value as part of Icelandic tourism but also regarding the national self - image. This area is very important to us. I have been exposed to the central highlands, and that is true of a great many others, but the central highland is in our consciousness and is a part of our self - image, to have this largest, virginness of Europe. Our duty is to protect them, and we must bring them unmoved to future generations. There are activations that can penetrate this area or that are at the side of it, and we have to make sure that we don't go any further. We are simply under obligation to do so. We have an obligation to do so with the future Icelanders, and we are also required to get the area on the UNESCO world calendar because it is as if I have entered, Madam President, a truly unique region. When a survey was conducted in April 2015 to find out if people wanted a national park in the middle of the country - because I referred to Iceland's self - image - it was only 13% opposition. There's a lot of people wanting us to protect this area. Therefore, like my missionary daughter Katrín Júlíusdóttir, I would like to encourage the government to enter the definition of which territory should be considered in the new Middleland park. As a matter of fact, I am sorry that the will of these large organizations, which are concerned with its nature and access and that work is not started on this important task. Visits to the park increase as tourists increase. Many of these areas are also beloved areas of Iceland, which we would like to visit on our vacations, but I welcome especially new agreements for national employment. It is a very important law order to work on the protection objectives of the law and the necessary instruments to control the natural park in a sustainable way. What a joy it is that we have come in there, and we must protect these precious areas and recognize the responsibility that we now live in this land are entrusted to protect it for the future. Then comes the financial contributions to the park, which are too scarce in the mind of how this government has played the important trade of the tourism industry. The absolute lack of policy has caused us to fail to control enough land traffic, not build up new places, and does not guarantee that the existing ones will not be overindulging themselves. It is necessary to increase funding into the park to build infrastructure. It's true of Lake Earth parks and all of Iceland's natural spheres. Many of them give evidence that there is too much trouble there. It is necessary to have more structure in these areas to protect the environment, which is said to build up the situation for guests, but it must also increase the number of places that drag visitors to reduce the pressure in existing areas. As soon as this tiny bill is a progressive step for the future of Lakejörður Park, it's a chicken step, because we have to do so much more. It needs to be clear, and it's good, but it takes global travel policy, and it takes courage to pay for it, and it's totally unnatural that it's not a means to get paid by tourists beyond what it is currently. There is a need for building up funds. It is so strange that when the Independence Party is in power, it seems that he wants to avoid going into business with the general and what we all have together, then the skirt - fold - piazza is the dominant figure in the commercial world where the market should be allowed to have its own course with strong competitive legislation and supervision. It is surprising to misunderstand such market ideology, for nature's protection and public health and education services should be in the hands of a powerful government. Then the professional life of competing on the grounds of competition. The management of the government of hunting costs and new market agreements shows that the right management of the forward-class and Independence Party do not understand capitalism, which they tend to claim to be advocates. The rest of us, who dissidentize and society for all of us, will request these tactics and expect elected representatives at the International Parliament to protect the interests of the public. Part of it is to ensure that a sector growing as rapidly as tourism has clear guidelines and that it produces what it really does. Travel services use an important natural resource, the natural resource unorthodox Icelandic nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature nature. It is natural for us who live in this country to enjoy greater interest in our precious resource. To this, Madam President, I'd like to say that this bill is fine as far as it goes and an important step in strengthening the Lake Earth, but it's not going to do legal things, because it's the money that's given into the park that makes a difference whether he can grow and thrive or if we're going to sit down with all too vast areas that are going to get overrun.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u47	President. I want to thank you. The public speaker agrees with her in principle. Of course, here we are talking about a case, which, unfortunately, is all too common here at the General Assembly, was so prepared by the Ministry that a considerable amount of work is needed to achieve it properly, but we were lucky to fit ourselves together in a environmental and transport committee to do so well. I know why. A senator also knows from a welfare committee that it has very often happened that we have the access of responsible government opposition fixed matters that are not in the way of more part and the government. I'd like to pray. A senator pauses at two points mentioned in her talk. First, it describes a travel policy. She says that this matter is good and blessed; it is good to have a clearer legal code about the exact matter, but we may be discouraged about certain matters, perhaps referring especially to the conditions of travel paid by tourists. That's what I want to pray for. A senator must pause, i.e. First of all, travel policy. Today, the secretary of travel repeatedly says that the guide for travel and the management of tourism is actually what had to be done and has been done, and so, if all of this is taken to a good turn. I want to ask you why. A senator as to what she thinks it needs to be done better and how we should approach it. On the other hand, I would like to ask her about the project on the increased payment by tourists or by the industry as such. Then I'd like to ask her to stop especially from the fact that it is the capital area that is the most frequent resort to tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u48	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Svavardótti Svavarsdóttir for good questions. Yeah, a travel policy. On the one hand, we are talking about the payment and the development of policy plans and how we are going to develop the article. Like what? A senator points out that people come here to the capital area and then travel out of the capital area. It is important to develop more of these atoms in Iceland, which you can travel from time to time, how much you need a lot of room space at your local level, and what you can do about it. They can't be too few, but they can't be too many. We need to make better traffic around the country. In the past government it was successful to create Iceland's campaign throughout the year that has made us much, much better, investments in the article over the longer period of the year, almost all the year now, instead of just over the summer months. That's the kind of policy we've been calling for in the season. Well, mostly, that's what I'm talking about. Minister to us that she's staging strings. I want to go see what that setting is. When it comes to the payoff, I'm convinced that we're supposed to pick up return charges in this country because it's a very effective currency. Then visitors, whether foreign or domestic, pay for their arrival in the country. By doing so, we will gain funds to strengthen the structure of our industry and to make money in the financial resources of this important profession, of course, that we have some income from. Then maybe I'll come to second pass on my rural society and their share.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u49	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and is pleased that she will stop at the communities in her second response, for that is exactly what is growing concern over the country, increasing pressures on the interior parts of rural society, evaporation systems, road systems, and this daily situation that society is facing. It may not be the least of the worries here in the capital area, which is the most delicate and delicate settlements, in the Qunosium and in Theingholts, and in this densely populated area of which streets are narrow, etc. There's a lot of stress on buses and mobile transportation cars, etc. ... whocutdowns these woods. These are the infrastructures that are on the shoulders of the company, which such as standing by and watching over. While government funds are paying off debt and taking pride because everything is going well, the rural society is dealing with, and this is just an example of this, growing pressure on the changing forms of employment, etc. without anything to meet it in a changed vision of a country - and - country partner and income - divider. This is an aspect that obviously needs attention. Hv. One senator says that coming charges are her vision, that's the simple part, but I'd like to ask her how she provides the cohesion of a comeback, which is expected to be one fee into the country, and the fact that individual areas live under a lot of pressure and have very different tolerability and if in any way we can make this play together in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u50	V.E.G. President. In terms of currency, I think that many of the people who come here are ordinary people who travel as we Icelanders travel to other countries. They are people on vacation or are going to conferences, and they may not have too much money, but they have a lot of money to afford to go from country to country on their summer vacation. We are accustomed to paying taxes to all associated with tourism when traveling abroad. We do not think about abandoning our journey to Rome because we have to pay for a stay. Iceland is not Rome, but Iceland truly has a special standing which has very few other countries in our part of the world, and it would be no less attractive to come here in spite of coming charges. I think we're also supposed to develop a better hosting fee, and we're supposed to run into the sleepers where they're staying, that they're going to have a share for farms. Then we come to see that large rural areas are even very poor communities with vast areas of land to meet vast numbers of tourists. We have to meet those areas. There, the natural hostilities would be of some value to them, but then we would have to include the visits, regardless of how we transfer the funds, to consider the number of guests in the area, not just the number of stays, and how to ensure that their rural communities can build up their infrastructure so that they will benefit from having this increased number of tourists, not just death, and more pressures on the plight of some of these areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u51	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this fine discussion of a big, important subject. At that time, a park of fish was natural, perhaps as a form of reconciliation for the progress men had in activation in the highlands when it was attacked in Cárder's Reactivations at the time, and it is important that the park, where they have been able to develop, thrive, increase, and expand. It is vital that these issues be viewed in a complete way and developed in the whole country for the future. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall from when we took turns in short answers earlier when I introduced him to see some area that would be right for the public, could become part of this park now or in the future. He named Jackion and Handegross, and I strongly agree with the senator, and I think there are a lot more areas where we have to mark these policies, to form in the Gestapo area, which, of course, has been true to say nothing trouble with property at all too long before such an important place in the history of the country and in growing tourism. We need to create private, private, and professional opportunities to sell and provide services in protected areas. But firms come and go, and the land itself as the national parks and such activities are to be owned by all of us, just as the fish in the sea, if they are found in the sea, and just like other resources such as the earth's earth's geity and the water supply in our falls. This requires that we set a more complete course. What country is long-term relevant to the public, and what is the point of being in private property? Perhaps it would be better to do private property because a private person is better able to expel it. However, there is also a special arrangement for mountains to be private, which I think is merely an evil idea because the argument for private property on land is, of course, the first thing that if a person owns the land, he will care for its culture, maintain and maintain it better than the government would do. Of course, it is perfectly natural to have private property. But the fact that mountains and fjords are really a very special idea, because mountains and feathers are the first and last public property. We view them as being used for curfews, etc. and that they are never really private property, whatever it may be on some paper. But we do not need just a comprehensive policy on which land needs to be in public interest so that this will continue to develop a peace-lit region and national parks. We also need a comprehensive policy on the ruling system of national parks, such as the driving force. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall did so well. This matter of Congress shows that the government and it is long time for us to have a peaceful territory and the areas of national parks in one institution under one government, where policies that look at the bigger picture, look at each area's strengths and weaknesses, and develop these in order to further the interests of the country all but not on each scale. At the same time, it is important to ensure the presence of the local people and their influence, to form with regional tracts and in more places than in the Lake Earth. Here, too, it must be said that I know Congress as a natural bulb and a national park primarily, although it is of course important and natural that the Council continues to have a special approach to the ethic itself and the part of the Parliament that is directly related to the council in ancient times and the history and strong connection with the Icelanders and the general people I believe. Not only do we need our national parks in one institution with peaceful territory but we also need to think in a much larger context what we're going to have and what we don't have. The idea of a lakeland park was a good step to itself at the time it was under attack, perhaps such an appropriate task to get started. However, I think that it is only a long time ago that we look at the entire central highlands, not in individual pieces, not as a single area, but in this vast wealth of wealth that we Iceland have in 40s of yours. square miles of unsatisfactory, very few in the Northern Hemisphere at least In Europe, becoming more and more sought - and more important to preserve. Because it is so easy to destroy unscrupulous places by making compromises about one mast here and there, and one building here, until the experiences of the area are suddenly no longer wasted. I'm not gonna talk about a fixer-up line across the highlands. Now it has been ten years, I suppose, since I with my head. paritaprevir The Aggressor of Össur's Skarphéðinsson and other fine senators brought in a matter where we should start documenting Iceland's central capital on the UNESCO. In this, a statement on our part that we want to defend and protect this particular pearl of our highlands, and the problem of action in it simply because we want to go through the job to apply to the world mine with this large area calls for targeted policies, it calls for men to go over the ideas available, to continue the good, to let the other people and work entirely, with the area all to make the best use of it, but only to protect it as best for the future generations. This proposal was moved to the current assembly a second time, and it is in fact closely related to the policy of the Community's national meeting some time ago that peace was properly declared to the whole highlands. It's not just organization policy, it's also the left movement's policy of green supply. I suppose a number of other members of the High Council support this objective and, unfortunately, that the council has not long taken care of its proposals and agreed to conclude that it is the next step. Of course, such policies could have affected a number of plans and some of the things that the public has been working on recently, and you feel at least This rich political desire to protect and protect the central highlands is soon to be seen. I'll mention that in the case of Tankura, I would ask if there had ever been any suggestion to engage in the activation of the Tankian if we had taken it and had taken a stand for peace to be declared centrally high. I mention the money the Landsnet has been spending at work in preparation for some form of linework over the central highlands. I would mention instigating ideas that public energy companies have been working on in the White River on Gold Falls and would be considered if the council had become a market, and on the contrary, political policy that Iceland's central highlands should be at peace. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity to encourage supporters of the central highlands to be at peace and possibly as a whole with a national park to try to tempt it before this council concludes the resolution of the approved material. We have supporters of this matter in all council groups at the General Assembly, people who want to promote the peace and protection of the central highlands of all councils. On the right side and on the left, we find members of all members of the council that share that vision, and the interests of it are quite obvious, the interests of protecting what we got in our womb, the vast and glorious sense of freedom that comes from living near them, and being able to go there, travel there, and getting in close and precious touch with the nature that we do there. To protect and preserve the future for our children and grandchildren is, of course, the first and first duty, but also to ensure that here is a refuge, a place where other people who do not live having such pearls near them and who live in lands that are more and less human beings and people of urban life, are able to go here and look out in this unique beauty of nature that is so urgent that they will not be easily corrupted by linework, built up roads, or other human activities that are abundant in all places, a respectable president, while the Middleland is not found here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u52	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I can agree with him in every way. I've had many discussions at the kitchen table at my house, just what he came in on, i.e. To have land from mountain to beach, and even to hit your fingers when you're going to be beaten because someone owns the land. It is very special that there are those who have found themselves in some spot a century ago or centuries ago, since the earth could be cultivated and men were trying to establish themselves, that it is lost, that it is left desolate, and that it is not prepared for so decades, and that the years are divided by some individual or individual. I've always thought it was something special, and I've often wondered if there's any boundaries on it, just that you can't have, like, one. 200 yards from a mountain and down as you say, that's at least 200 yards. In the property of all our people, it can't be owned by a particular person. The same can be said of them. A senator mentioned the sale of certain particular pearls within the community that we feel we need. I'd like to ask the senator, he came in on a lot of things, including... having in one institution the parks all together. Of course, this has only been critical, even though the government has decided not to change the arrangement that is now. Why does the senator feel that it is better than having the government in the fields itself and perhaps promoting that activity?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u53	A respectable president. I think it's a good thing to do. One senator noted that anything higher than Himmelbjerget in Denmark is a public property and was very clear to that fact. In fact, it is absurd for humans to claim that the whole and half of the glaciers are somebody's private property. There is a reason why a corn field is private, that is because it needs to be cultivated and protected, and that makes it more convenient for a person to care for the country and to make sure that its value is maintained and that he or she will become greater. The same is true of fields and fields and farms, but their views do not apply to mountains and of course we own the mountains in Iceland. That's the way it is. We are to make sure that this too is the form. But with the question about the park's organization, I think that having one National Park organization can lead to a government at home, even more, because it is primarily the overall vision, the perspective, or the overall policy that is central, which may be much more important to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I wanted to talk to him later about what he said about the wilderness and that we needed to return nature to a better condition, if anything, but we got it. Of course, there has been a great deal of talk about currency. I'd like to ask the senator about his view of currency. We have talked about a considerable number of international flights and the distribution of tourists and how we can reduce the pressure on the pearls that suffer most of the trouble. He came along fine when he even mentioned it. The trouble with Geys and with glaciers is because it has what it is. Of course, that is part of the problem. So it's a control or not a control, I don't know what to say, it's, of course, control into these areas, but maybe with more than prowess, I think you can say, because the regions are really giving way to it. Even if the members belong to these pearls, the interiors may not be ready to welcome the number of tourists who are already there. I would like to take in the senator according to the way he provides for him, or not a currency, and in what way. It's only been entered in the bill for Lake Earth parks that it is permitted to receive a certain currency. How, though, does he achieve a complete payment, perhaps to control and protect?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u55	A respectable president. I have a simple opinion about it, I believe that the host's fee should be used, that should be raised so that it can live up to what needs to be done and just go into it. There's nothing more complicated in my mind. I've not been a spokesman for Iceland to take a boat for the countries that have to pay the money to get into. We may know this especially from underdeveloped lands. I want people to be able to come to Iceland without paying for that particular price. It is well - known, however, that there is a host's dues or some form of hotel taxes that are designed specifically for projects related to tourism. I think we should use the international phenomenon known both east and west of the ocean. So I think it's all right for people to pay to park their cars, but I don't want to have paybacks all over the country where they're charging 500 bucks here and 500 bucks there for nothing, but to try to approach them simply through one method of remuneration, an international acceptable method, a stay-up fee that we charge when they can return the money we need to build up. It is simply to rise it and go into the structure and stop speaking against the tourists who are nothing more than victims in the situation of the government's failure to act.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u56	Mr. President. I'm gonna get involved in this conversation briefly. I think it's interesting, and I think we're discussing the environment too little at the council. This bill takes into account specific factors within the Lake Earth. We are talking about the largest national park in Europe, more than 13 thousand square miles [31,000 square km], covering an amazing number of pearls we possess in Iceland, others we have less. It is worth paying attention to how we can take care of it so well that this pearl of ours will not be permanently damaged, of course, so we are seeing now that very little has been done in the infrastructure. Sadly, the failure of the government under power has been amazingly great. Even though it has been better, it has not worked properly, and it has been suggested that action has not been possible. But, of course, it also has to do with the administrations. This is about the administrative structure of Lake Earth's nation of Nations, where only when it was established and overspread under the authority of a governmental arrangement set up to serve as a minister in charge, and there are seven delegates and an officer serving as an officer of an outdoor organization. The management board can organise managers or negotiate with other government agencies responsible for business and daily management. This management or day - to - day management has had one employee who is completely unacceptable. If this is to be done decently, it's like a lot of other things that they're missing into it. Because I mentioned remuneration, I think there's something that we need to remember that when it comes to these things, like so many others. The role of the governments and the regional councils is discussed by the Seas' Savvy National Park as being divided into four operating areas and independent units. There are six local representatives who are to ensure the presence of the local people and the administration of those who live and live in the area, but they do not necessarily have to be local residents who sit in the local council, while those living there know what it is all about every day. Then there's a national parkkeeper who's hired by the board, as I said, who then proposes a regional proposal for the provision of funds. That's what happened to you. Svandís The Svavarsdóttir's case was not quite successful when it came to the committee, which was noticed by those involved, i.e. The stakeholders, national parks, and rural groups, etc., felt that they were using the bill as if it were saying that they were reducing the power of a controlled administration system and increasing the central control. The committee changed it so that it would not be. I think it went pretty well. Il. The chapter of the law is about the government of the National Park, and it's about even the law. ... anexperience. I don't know why it's so hard for you to let your outdoor officer have no proposal. If I understand this correctly, it is stated that he has an audience to find the administration, and the committee believes he has received the information that was going well, but there were differences of viewpoints recently, and then the outdoor organization asked for a full involvement in the government. It may well be out of the question, but the committee considered this to be a legal hearing to be free of speech and proposal. Of course, when it comes to controversial matters, it always comes up when it has something to do with such a vast and delicate area and a lakeland park and nothing unusual about it, so I don't believe that people who sit on this board don't ignore suggestions or conversations with those who only have the right to listen. There are several changes to the management and protection programme, to the park and national authority warrants, mainly to simplify and explain. I have to agree that it is very wise for me to believe that there are laws on the social life, makeup, and behavior of the people of this park. This is the largest peace-installed territory, not only in the country, but in Europe and the importance of success. It is referred to as working in accordance with provision for temporary nature protection, in which environmental and resource ministers are to have a bill of new regulations involved in operating for tourism. The existing public rights, then, are based on nature protection and the necessary resource management and the tourism and the abjection that it is unmistakably leading to. How Would You Answer? 10 / 15 The bill, or new section on job related activities in the National Park, and that it is permitted to charge for permission groups for planned events and projects. I agree with that because it has come first to the task of working on the protection objectives of the law, as shown, where progress has increased in obtaining e.g. shooting movies and stuff like that. This may even include closing the park or increasing work for those who are already serving in the park. I think it's a good thing. First and last, the funding to this park and to our national parks in general and to increase the number of employees, both at the scene in these four territories as well as in an office, i.e. The administrative unit. To grasp the tremendous increase in pressure, you must find a way out of it. The committees have been some of the roads. If it is permitted to collect services on the license team and contracts that will only be due them, there is no extra money to be given to the park so that the park can function properly. We have discussed matters in connection with infrastructure, transport, and so forth. I would have wanted to see the government's transport program, including. That's it. That's it. That's it. It's not just that it's a better access, it's an enormous security factor. In reality, since this has been for some year it is totally unacceptable to plan that the project should not be completed and the pieces taken are not exemplary, it is safe to say so. We need to reduce the pressure and scatter it. We've spoken for international flights at Egls and Akureyri and even Húsavík. All of this is something that could change the pressure on the pearls of the Southland that we mentioned earlier, including Jack and Gold Falls and Geys. I agree with what was said earlier that I had wanted to see the state do some valuable things because now we're kind of upset with Jack. We know the conditions that Geys, which are part of a government property and part of a private property, have already been dealt with. By Lake Mee and other locations, the situation is inexorable because of the lack of agreement with landowners. I think we need to go in and see if there's anything we're supposed to be looking for. As shown in what happened between me and my wife. paritaprevir Of course, Helgi Hjörvar of today's Icelandic law is that mountains and feathers can be owned and you can't even wear berries because someone hit you. This doesn't make any sense. Then I'm also talking about where the ground is not being cultivated. It is so completely different that companies are created at some point in their territory. It is then under the rules and laws established by the Council and would be expected to be under some such national park. There was also talk of currency. In the bill, there is only one committee to pay for specific items. There's not been anything from the government yet to see how this is best done, and a minister with his bill for reimbursement. Somehow it seems like it's going to work out. But I've been inclined to believe that we should have raised the cost of lodging, but that alone is not the solution to the problem. In the capital area, the nature of the situation, as far as the host is concerned, is far from here, of course, around here, and all of that, but it is still missing in such areas as Lake earth and other areas that do not stay; somehow, we need to meet it. Farmers who oversee the areas within them often contribute to a number of costs that they cannot meet. I would've wanted to get in on the rush hour, from May to the end of September, something like that, we'd set a comedown. I don't think there's something people who want to come to the country would put in for themselves. Nobody's talking about a lot of money. But this would probably come back and be earmarked, whether it's the management center of tourism or a god, then it goes to where it should go and into the infrastructure. We still stand before the fact that three years have passed, and nothing has happened or very little, so it is best not to say anything, for of course something has happened but very little. We know the big bathroom talk, and because we're talking about it, I'm not talking about how to charge all the pots and there's going to be sheds all over the place. It's not. I think a mixture of comets, increased housing charges, and reimbursement of that currency is something to be done, and, of course, it's been done long ago, and the rural communities have been in it because they have to be paid for an additional currency. It's clear that the state can't take everything away because it's not just the thing that's come into the countryside, there's so many other things. Mr. President. I'm not gonna keep this discussion any longer. We all want to make it through the country without having to pay for it all over the country. That's why I think the charges are for the good. I went to a national park abroad where I had the opportunity to go in a vat up the rest of the mountain. It was free into the park, and guards were everywhere, even though you could not see them until someone had done something wrong, like parking where it was not to be parked, the guards would appear in a moment and make sure that cars would be parked where they were allowed to park. Other than that, you were not at the National Guard. The payment was merely for the operation of the chronometer and nothing more than that. It's okay. It's okay. We're supposed to be able to do this at home. We shouldn't have to charge anything special. We're supposed to be free about this country, and we've always talked about it, left green. But we need to get our money, and we can do it with comings and staying taxes. This is exactly what we pay when we go abroad. This bill is a chicken step in a certain direction and the right direction to deal with very specific factors. But it is clear that there is still something reasonable outside of Iceland's national affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u57	V.E.G. President. I decided to come up here and express myself on this matter, though. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, who is a man of a better future on the Environment and Transport Committee, has explained our share very well and spoke about this and the work being done on the environment and transportation committee, which is a very well-developed committee and has done many good works during this ideal period, and now many in the hall, but it's just my injury, that's the way it's been shown. I come here most because I'm very interested in the nature of Iceland and the way we go and take care of it. Presently, the environment was not necessarily my main interest or how we walk. I wasn't thinking much about these things at all, and I wasn't wondering if either the river or that waterfall was activated or how we drove around in the highlands and so on the streets. But as you grow older and monitor them more, you get more interest and realize how important nature's resources are and how important it is to take good care of them. Iceland's nature is the main attraction of tourists, it's clear. So we must take care of it like all of our other resources. We have set rules regarding water resources, and we are to do so with the natural resource. That's why I welcome this bill that I'm a wiser person on the Transport Committee that says is an improvement and progress for Icelandic nature. On June 17, I gave a talk in Grindavík. There I spoke only of nature, and perhaps not least of patriotism, since we speak of it too little. Like what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir told us earlier, we talk too little about these matters and how important they are to us and to our country and nation. We need to talk about real and responsible environmental issues and what we can do to protect nature, and especially for our children. Then I'm going to quote my speech that I gave June 17th: ▪ Although I don't want to compromise, I believe the most important subjects in every nation to be their children, because that's what the country will inherit after we're older out of the field. Hence, it is so important that as adults, we set a good example for them, an example that teaches them, guides us to all the values we want to live and work on, values such as tolerance and love, equality, democratic cooperation, responsibility, compassion, willingness, and respect. We are to increase their scope, improve their skills in Icelandic languages, enhance their understanding of Icelandic society, their history, their characteristics, and the happiness of people past and present. Teach them their duties as individuals in the community, the environment, and the world around them. This is as perceptive as it will be to see directly taken from school benchmarks, but our schools may be key institutions in strengthening and teaching children, strengthening children's understanding of the environment and nature and the community, and strengthening their awareness of it. I say if we put this first in our children's raising, we will build a society without separation and a community that supports all to their own lives, a society that surrounds its subjects and nature with compassion and love. It's one of the key things I've always held out ever since I became a senator that we should do. Especially should we teach our children the value of the natural nature of our country for us today and for future generations. Entrusting all of us with a sense of responsibility, which is the cornerstone of human morality, for an unrecognized person can develop a real relationship with others. Such a person is difficult to trust and trust is the basic condition of human relations and to keep human society together. Everyone knows that when trust fails, it leads to conflict and division, which, unfortunately, happens all too often. Sadly, the vastness of the mist is inexhaustible, and when we do it, we are in fact working against ourselves and others. Therefore, one of our main tasks should be to strengthen the relationship between responsibility and natural protection, between responsibility and children. With Icelanders, it is up to us to be worthy advocates of nature, defenders of it, to spread the message of its value uncontaminated. A people who practice such things can be a proud nation. We Icelanders have grown up, lived, and been moved in close contact with our country, far from all the big cities of the world, and it has made our love for this country built in, it's automatic and unconscious. It's just a fact with us Icelanders. Patriot love is a great and beautiful word. You can't really give a talk about nature without speaking about patriotism and national pride, since both seem to be rich in human nature and both are positive if properly spoken, with confidence but modesty, with security but without any arrogance. In the history of our Icelanders, which is really short compared to the history of many other nations, very many have treated their patriotism and their pride with pride and pride, with a warm feeling that is totally free of pride, pride, or embezzling. Hence, there are many good things to take that can serve as an example and an example for us to follow. One of them is Jónas Hallgrímsson, who all know. This sensitive man had so much greatness and talent, but he enjoyed far too little favor and fortune, or favor, but he did not enjoy happiness. He lived as if everyone knew the most of his life in Copenhagen, but his mind remained at home. His songs are so filled with genuine love for the country, nature, grass, flowers, birds, and fish. He was a true naturalist, and he loved Iceland despite living elsewhere and spending his life more or less there. I want to go, with President's permission, with a poem by Jónas Hallgrímsson, who may describe it and ask you to listen to the feeling and tone of it: And now the south wind breathes the translators. In the sea all bare little things rise And I will come to the fair land of Isa, To the land of my land of the coast and the slopes of my land And here's another: Early little loin in blue ◯drindindi Under the sun we sing: ▪ Praise the Giver's Goodness - Green are the countryside. beautiful circle of the sky So finally this: Filthy. The spores are down! A verdant hill with punchsticks! flea tea! A thousand dollars! Trailer! small ground! I am with you all the time I love it best in the sea and in the sea; Trailer! The spores are down! A verdant hill with punchsticks! Isn't that pure patriotism? Love for the land, for nature, and for life, is totally fruitless and without any need for self - exaltation. We must never forget that true patriotism has nothing to do with fun and ethnic pride. There is no need for patriotism and for self - exaltation and for their land by demeaning others, other peoples, other countries, or other cultures. It is not virtue. It is vice and inadequacy. Jónas Hallgrímsson never did that. I decided to come up here and take it away because I think we're supposed to protect our nature more and more than we do. This bill may be a factor in protecting and maintaining the security of the lakelands and the surrounding region, untainted for future generations, and for those visiting us to see this marvelous land in which we live. That's why I'm all in my mind and I appreciate it. Environmental and transport committees for it help to do so as well as it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u58	V.E.G. President. A person is almost halfhearted to appear in the public address after the last speaker, giddy. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, has been following a national song with great interest, and he puts you in a bit of a good mood to talk about committees because of a bill to legalize the law of Lakehjörður Park. Before discussing that, I would like to say that I felt very important. On the other hand, a senator wrote poetry and spoke about patriotism, stating that it is not in any way a matter of being greater or better than anyone else, but of being proud of yourself and what you are without exalting yourself at the expense of others. I think this is absolutely important that we always keep in mind, and especially when we're talking about our country that we're so proud of, because we can certainly be proud of it without thinking that we're more or better in any way than anyone else. That's what I think is important, always. Hv. A senator who spoke before me also mentioned in his talk that his face might not have been very interested in the environment but that his interest was to wake up. I don't remember what happened. A senator said in his old age, no, he probably didn't say that, my brain thought so. But I think that's what it is. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson is not alone in his interest in environmental matters. There has been a great awakening in the nation and an increased awareness that there are absolutely enormous values in our hands when it comes to our country, and we are increasingly aware that it does not matter how we treat them. We don't have to look back in time to see how the discussion about everything that turns into nature's protection has changed, and I want to say it has happened. The discussion has improved, has become more difficult, deeper, and better. This bill to correct the changes in the law of Lake Earth may be a little smell. To a large extent, it is a technical matter in which the law of the Lakes earth is being proposed that they come up with various developments that we can say will be involved. However, it has been so clear in our discussion today that it is a smell of so much greater a matter that turns to how we will protect and maintain, while at the same time, we and future generations will benefit from the wonderful nature that we possess. Some have associated this with a talk about a highland park. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, transferred the bill to make the central highlands a national park. We've noticed in the discussion, in the walls of this house, at the General Assembly, that there has been an increase in the length of the assembly in making the central highlands national parks. But this discussion has no less flourished in the community. I think and believe that we are on our way that we will in the near future make the central highlands a national park. I really hope to say that it will be as soon as possible and that we will be able to connect together as the most exalted region that will be national parks. V.E.G. President. One of the things that have also been discussed in the discussion of a lakeland park and are closely linked to the geographical issue is the position of the glacier and the importance of the natural bulb being owned by the nation. I think it's the next thing we need to take, and I actually add when it's time for Lake Earth. I had earlier this year, more likely this spring than winter, a place of words at the highest. Environment Minister for the sale of the earth fell in the South and the possible prerogatives of the State on that earth. It was quite interesting in my opinion that my inquiry about the possible premarital rights of the state or possible possession on that earth at the highest level. Environment Minister said, with the permission of the President: ▪ I find it very interesting to see the future of Jackions being part of a Lake glacier park. I think it should be taken at the highest. Ministers of the word and make glacier part of the National Park and the possibility that the state will buy the earth, i.e. that part of the earth, which is not already part of the Kingdom, should be in a trade process. I think that would make the park bigger and bigger and would make a bigger picture of it. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned whether it is proper to name a Lake Earth park and put it on the UNESCO world calendar and that part of it is to consider whether it may need to expand the national park and connect it to the sea. Of course, such an external setting is important. So that a national park can really live up to its name, we must always look to how we can make Jehovah's way even greater and better. I wanted to bring these points into the discussion because, as I said before, these matters are on the move, i.e. anything that affects the nature of the country and the environment. I think it is of utmost importance that, as we now operate on the national issues, we are very aware that we have quality that will be of great importance to future generations. That is why we need to face challenges and think about the future. Hv. paritaprevir I try here to spank me by grinning and shaking my head, I refuse to be spanked. Of course, we must look to the future and make sure that future generations too can enjoy our land. Hv. A senator laughs. That is why I believe that the bill under discussion, which, as I said earlier, turns to various technical issues affecting the Lakes Earth and deals with the specific factors, is an important stage. I think it's very positive. The environment and transport committees have met to provide common changes, as this is a matter that should not be a group of clearly involved in the common future interests of all of us. So I agree with what others have said that I hope this bill will be agreed with, but also that we will not be stopping there but will look to the future and see how we can make the way of Iceland's national parks even greater and better in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u59	A respectable president. It is a joyful occasion when we are allowed to discuss subjects as pleasant as national parks and how we protect Iceland. I strongly rejoice that this is taking the step as far as possible. The environment and transport committee work together, as shown in the opinion listed in the Committee under which the person listed here is also signing. This is a very good change. It was hard work. The Environment and Transport Committee went on to put the matter into place and the right to which it now exists. Of course, it is always that in the case of a system change, as is really being done here by changing the way the Stars of the Earth's Waters Nation is controlled, that they will always be less than completely satisfied, but there must only be a gap between parts while we move on in this system. I would especially like to celebrate that by means of the bill, national park authority will increase in general. I think this is something that we really need to look at more and in a much more comprehensive way at the council what the national authority range is in times such as. To a centerland national park, to a Middle-earth park, to a natural Lake Sevenland park. I think that, in fact, it needs to be expanded beyond what is done here. National Guard is a kind of protection for nature at this popular tourist destination, and I think it is absolutely necessary that they have clear lines of power and clear power to protect nature. I also need to express concern about the situation when it comes to all the infrastructures at Lakejörður National Park. It's long since time, most respected president, that the Council will adopt and form a complete frame of funding for the interior of Icelandic nature. There's one of the greatest and most wonderful spheres of nature the earth has. Iceland is unique when it comes to it. The time has come for this category of resources to be spent, especially since the tourist current is so massive, especially in the South. I don't think anyone knows that the road from the village village gang and east isn't double-burning, and to see the natural bulbs that belong to the Lake earth has to go through that way. We are talking about even thousands of people every day of nature, such as Jack and others, who are embarrassed and embarrassed when it comes to traffic safety and security in these areas. The time has come for the government to step up and give them the important industry that the tourist industry is what is needed for that infrastructure that has long since become time - consuming. That is exactly what the committee noted. The environment and transport authorities need to increase the number of workers in the park working in their territory. It is a vast region, and it is not easy to pass through. How understandable, then, that we need more people to take care of the surveillance and protection that we actually have a moral obligation to care for nature and for the future and future generations and to protect. I'm glad that this is a special statement, and I really hope that we start to get our shit together and do something. We always talk a lot about the lack of money for tourism infrastructure and to protect Lakesjörg and any national park or nature in Iceland, but then we don't have anything to do with it. It is not possible to see in a transport program, which is now coming in too late and is having some business in committees, that there will be some significant changes in this process. There's something we need to consider, a respectable president. It's as good as this bill is, and it's as good as working anyway. The environment and transport authorities have been at least one piece in a much larger puzzle. In order for all of this to work out, we need funding first and foremost. The number of staff needs to be increased. It takes clear authority for National Guard to fine people if that is the case because I think nature should be allowed to enjoy the doubt when it comes to this subject, where it is a truly unique natural bulb, which we will certainly regret if it goes badly. Most important, I want to emphasize the infrastructure that is absolutely necessary to take place at the glacier. There's one of the most popular tourist attractions in Iceland. I think it's time to get to the top. The traveling minister leads to the work needed to contribute to that infrastructure, and I trust that he will put into practice the financial contributions that are truly needed in this category to be granted in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u60	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the changing of the General Assembly Act on the Day of the Meeting of the Council of 2016. Adding to the law is the provision of a new arrangement, which is as follows: Despite 4 mg. 1st par. The Council of Justice shall be completed on 29 October 2016. Regular Council of 2016, the 146th legislature, shall be met once the president of Iceland has gathered the General Assembly, as per Article 22, 24. The Constitution, and it will continue until the regular meeting day of the Generals 2017. This means that the current legislation Council, 145th legislature, will be extended to 29 October, which is scheduled on the day of the General election. A new Council of 146th legislature should begin on Tuesday, on September 13, but this bill is suggested to be postponed until after election. In 1st. Thirty-five. The constitution is a regular meeting day of the General Assembly, which says it is October 1st of each year. This time interval can be established according to the 2 mg recommendation. the same articles act by law. This was done by law No. 84/2011, about a change in the assembly scene, and then the meeting day was set for a third day of September. Today, unusual circumstances in which total elections are planned in the fall, thus more convenient for the work of the Generals and the payment of the Senate that the current legislation will be held, and then a new legislature will be set up after the election. This arrangement has been changed before, and the meeting day has been changed temporarily. That was the last one in 2013, as is the law of No. 88/2013. As mentioned earlier, the bill assumes that the current legislation meeting will be extended to 29 October 2016. Since total elections are planned to be conducted before the elected period of the General Assembly is due to be interrupted on the basis of Article 24. The constitution. Reporting of this, i.e. A violation of Congress, which includes the formal decision on the day of election, but not by this bill. It will be done later, according to Article 24. General elections should be performed within 45 days of the announcement of the breach. According to this, the release of Congress can be announced first on September 15, but can also be done later. The Senate, however, can continue to function, even though a breach has been announced. Constitutions. Finally, in the bill, the Council of 2016, which will be selected after the election, will be held until the regular meeting day 2017, i.e. Tuesday, that year. Two. magazine then discusses the value of this law. I've finished telling the story, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u61	A respectable president. I recommend the General and Education Committee on the bill to correct the changing of criminal treatment laws and the handling of private matters (repetition). The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bryndís Helgadóttir from the Internal Affairs Department, Sigurðarson of Iceland's Police Association and Björn L. Bergsson of the Re-Electment Committee. This bill suggests the necessary changes to be made based on Iceland's Supreme Court in case No. 628/2015 of 25 February 2016 for instructions on 2nd Jobs 1 mg. 214. gr. the treatment of criminal matters is the opposite of the constitution. The Supreme Court pointed out that the Committee to Re-Elect is a administrative committee and with a Article 3. Section 215. Treatment of criminal matters, as shown by 1st. 214. gr. The same law would be a committee that heard under the Commission assigned roles that could eliminate legal solutions. Such a system would be the opposite of a 2.g. The constitution and the law would not be valid, and it would not be used. The corresponding authority was legal in the handling of private matters. The Commission claims that the bill does not include a review of the procedures in the reanimation procedures, but the committee received information that such work has already begun at the State Department. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. In view of this, the Guðmundur Steingrímsson, vice president of the United States, Vilhjálmur Árnason, executive of the case, the Linik Anna Sævarsdóttir, who is here reporting on the matter, Einarsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, JóhannaMaría Sigmundsdóttir, and Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, who was absent from the case were the case of the Unlintlinthel Kjerúlf Þótirðursson's Þorvarðardóttir and Þórisson Jórisson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u62	A respectable president. This is with the simpler issues we're discussing today, a matter about fixing simple contradictions to a legal constitution. Many people in society are shocked by the laws that are contrary to the Constitution and rightly so, although the consequences of such are not always the same. In this case, the trial is that since the law of law fails to resist Article 2. The Constitution simply does not have the value of the lawgiver's purpose in its time. What I would like to mention on this occasion is the importance of improving the work of the Generals when it comes to a constitution. I mean in general. The bill of the Council of Government contains a section 62. the law of the so-called law. It says, by permission of the president: In law, the Council chooses five men from five years of age. The Parliamentary Committee, or 1/5th part of the General Assembly, can request a legal opinion as to whether a legal bill is compatible with a constitution and the national commitments of the state. The bill should not be given until the legal opinion has been passed. The legal procedures of the law are to be taken into account in the law. While I was thinking that the bill of the Government Council is for some reason not as controversial in the community as you would think in the Prancians in general that it is normal, the bill of directorship is full of things that are entirely worth talking about and that are in context of issues such as this one, as is the case of a law-made change without anyone noticing that it was not in accordance with a constitution, in particular in particular 2 gr. The constitution. For fun, yes, for fun, I looked up reviews from the 141th when this change was made, and I didn't realize that anyone mentioned it as a problem, so I expect the committee to have responded at that time. But I don't think that's gonna solve the problem. I think and I think it is likely that if men in general had the arrangement specified at 62rd. The Court's bill, on legal matters, would include a panel of members discussing such matters, on 141, or 145th, or any body council, asking for legal opinion. I think it would be a safer part of the legislature process to ensure a constitution. Fine dog. 2.m. Smoke. So, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, has also spoken for the Al Parliamentary Legal Office intended for that purpose. A senator to ensure a better match with a constitution and a more practical law code. The fact that the Council is going to fail to establish laws in accordance with Article 2. The Constitution on the separation of the court and the Commission may not be serious in this case because it simply affects what the law means but does not have some terrible consequences in itself on the rights of others. We are here simply trying to update the law in accordance with the tests that result from the Supreme Court's decision on the value of these solutions to 2.g. current constitution. I think that whenever we discuss the general judgment system, we need to keep a little more alert to these matters. Moreover, this is evident, usually at the beginning of the day. The General and Education Committee where I sit, when we talk about the judiciary system, is always very critical. The last time we passed a court law was given here that this was an ongoing project that is not completed and in my opinion will not be completed for some time because the criticism comes from former judges, even current judges, and lawyers who work inside and, of course, a number of people who have had some knowledge of the system and are not satisfied with the results. I think there should be a reminder for us here that we will resolve this matter. Although this is a minor matter, it could have been more serious. Regarding Article 2 of this magazine, we read on page 2. current constitution. This is regarding the trilocation of the power, the judiciary and the executional authority in this case. It should be rather obvious and set-up, you would have thought, first of all, that the lawgiver would understand this himself, i.e. General Assembly, 141st Council. You'd think the committee would have figured it out, that some source had figured it out, pointed it out, and then it wouldn't have been hard to fix. In view of how easy it is for many to downplay a discussion about the administrative bill, I feel that it is appropriate to mention it on this occasion that these things have been taken into consideration. There have been suggestions to improve this process of legislation. That suggestion is found, among other things. of 62 C.E. The bill of administration, something we should discuss here much more often in my opinion, and I now do it for that reason. It may then be possible to improve this concept of law, but I think and in fact have long felt that when it comes to the work of the Generalis, it is 62rd. in the bill of the Council of Government probably one of the things that would best improve the Senate work, certainly when it comes to a constitution which I would think was the most important thing we need to fit in here. I'm not gonna keep this any further until now, a respectable president. It is difficult to resist this matter, or impossible, to end a very simple change, but it gives us good reason to reflect on what went wrong, even though it was a little while ago, and to consider the suggestions that have been offered for improvement on such subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u63	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a synonym action plan for an equal rights project for the years 2016-52019 of the General and Education Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of guests. A report came from nine sources, and a client came to a meeting with the committee. It may not be stated in a committee study that a co-programming plan on equality was discussed on the implementation of an immigrant projection plan. Thus, some guests who were specifically called on for the second issue participated in both matters without having sent in specific comments. A token of equality is presented according to Article 11. according to equal status and equal rights of women and men, it includes the sixth European Commission implementation programme for equal rights. The programme is divided into seven parts and is presented with 21 projects designed to achieve the target of the law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men in Icelandic society. So it is intended to ensure that the priorities and priorities of the government in the field of equality are made clear in the implementation plan. I'm about to go through the committee opinion, but it's a series of seven chapters, like the projects. The management board is the first project. In a section on the Management Board, there is a discussion of the initiative in integrating equality with all policy decisions and policies in the management system in accordance with equality laws and emphasis on gender economys and budgets. In the treatment of the issue of this committee it was noted that in the law on equal positions and equal rights of men and women, rural communities are placed together to integrate equality, and a request for the State to support the rural development work was made. The Commission points out that a team member's project is generally out of place in government implementation programmes only when it comes to cooperation projects. However, the Commission points out that rural communities can apply for funding in Iceland's equal rights fund to projects involved in integrating equality issues. Chapter 7 discusses the assessment of equality and the administration of equality. It was noted to the Committee that the Presidential review of the Management Board of Equal Opportunities is to be submitted, which is in accordance with indications that came to the Commission from sources of information. The Commission also says that it is necessary to determine whether the objectives of current legislation and administration are in line with recent developments. It is also important to assess how this has been successful in implementing ambitious laws of equality since 2008 and to identify the reasons behind which the induction has not been successful. The Commission also points out that for a long time the European Union's directive on discrimination with a sentence on the balance of work market management and the balance of treatment regardless of race or nationality based on a directive for equal management of labour markets and employment practices and a directive to implement the principle of equal treatment regardless of race or ethnicity. In view of the Commission, it is necessary to consider whether the objectives of current legislation and administration are in line with the developments that have taken place and whether to prepare general legislation on the ban on discrimination, based on more differential than sex. This would be in accordance with national legislation, but such legislation will require changes in the administration of equality. What is actually going into here under the schedule is the basis for further revision of the law with respect to factors other than gender equality. Another section is about labour markets and pay equal sex. The duration of the implementation of the programme will continue to be carried out and follow-up of the tasks outlined in the Remuneration Homatological Action Programme. The Commission considers it important to ensure the introduction of a equal-employment position and to conduct a targeted covering job in the certifying of the equally pay system in accordance with the Commission's Regulation for certification of enterprises as well as the institutions on the basis of the standard. The Commission also noted that the Ministry of Health has been appointed by a team for an experimental project on abbreviated work period without a failure. The aims and details of the project can be worked out and the selection of work places involved. The third task is sex and democracy. During the period of implementation, the projection of the Education and Culture Ministry is intended to examine the availability and publication of women and men, girls and boys in the media and work on policy makers in that area. The Commission points out that recent studies show that women and men do not appear in equal proportions in the media, and the picture drawn by women does not reflect the number of them in the leading of their jobs or the high level of education in Icelandic women. Internal Affairs is also suggested to be responsible for the implementation of a study for the position of inmates and refugees based on human rights and equality. Such overall research has not been conducted in this country on the effects of sex in refugees and has been made to celebrate the committee of these programmes. The fourth is sexual violence and violence in close relationships. Chapter 13 discusses the cooperation of three advisers on how to act against violence. The Ministry of Justice will supervise the project, but its aim will be to add cooperation and practice to the prevention of violence and to strengthen cooperation with the investigation of violence. You will also be given high priority on cooperation with a free society. The committee welcomes this, but it is granted that for the purpose of the project to be met, the HCP and the health - care provider will need to be met. I'd like to explain this a little further, but it's in the committee's opinion. It was discovered by the Committee that although the Ministers of Health were not involved in the Three Ministers' collaborative Declaration of Violence, the first group of directors, who hold on to the project assumed that employees both the social services and the health services services services of the Ministry of Health were involved in the work. At that time, representatives of the health system have participated in meetings, days of work, and regional consultations on measures to prevent violence, strengthen research, etc. Thus, it has been emphasized to ensure the availability of the health care system for the task. Because the health - care system is part of the project, the Committee considers it important to explain that the health - care provider has a formal approach to the project and to the health care programme. Thus, it should be clear to all those involved. Then there is the fifth task that is equal in school. According to chapter 15 of the plan, the Ministry of Education and Culture oversees school equality projects during the period of the implementation of the programme. Equally speaking, there is one of the six basics of education according to the main textbook from 2013. The committee rejoices that equality education will be promoted at all levels, yet it is important that the universities of the country introduce gender to the basic education of all teachers if the goal is to be met. The Committee also considers it important to work systematically to match the number of persons at all school levels by performing the procedure and may connect them to the e- teams 1 mg. Chapter 18. The committee makes adjustments in this regard. These are the only material adjustments proposed by the committee. I'm gonna explain it to you. The changes include that in chapter 15 there are two new characters, on the other hand, the development of a series of actions designed to balance the level of gender rates of a school at all school levels and to encourage a university to introduce sex in a teacher's basic study and that active teachers conducted a study of sex studies. The first part of the proposal is fully in line with chapter 8 of the schedule where special emphasis is given on the need to increase the number of men in the management and training work. In addition, the plan is to better connect it to the school system. The second proposal is in relation to the a-arms chapter 15 of the program, which in the same section on equality in school, and is to prepare rather for the development of equality education at all levels. One authority pointed out that the key is for teachers to get a good background of knowledge in the field of sex. It was then noted at a meeting of the Committee that at present there is an opportunity for a practical course in equality and sex education for an active elementary school teacher on the National Socialist Association and Equal Opportunities Association. There's fewer people than they can find. On the other hand, it was observed that those university students offering teaching studies have been inoculation studies, such as gender studies. As a result, all students studied at the University of Akureyri. That's the sixth part of the plan, men and equality. In chapter 18, the proposals for men and equality established on the basis of an equal rights plan for 2011-2014 will be implemented. A special project manager will be formed on the project and will be responsible for the Ministry of Health. It is understood by the Committee that the position and right of the job should be balanced after divorce and/or separation in the care of children. The seventh part turns to international activity. Chapter 20 emphasizes that discussions about equality in the North will be promoted and the lights will be directed toward the position of women and men. In view of the comments made on the conference lack of consultation, the Committee points out that a new work programme was started on the middle of 2014 when formal proposals were requested to be carried out by councils, Equal Court and Equal Court. The Commission received information that the development of the programme was regularly introduced, particularly during monthly consultations with the Ministry of Justice as well as with the representatives of the Council. With the initiative of the Ministry of Health, the program of consultation was set up in 2012, with the objective of making consultations and strengthening the administration of equal rights. The Commission points out that the labour market situation shows that there is still a long country in the fields of equality here and that there is a need for targeted measures to make improvement. Among the vast tasks, there is equality between the sexes and the persistent gender division in the workforce. This will be done by actions directly involved in the labour market and other activities involved in the school system. The committee suggests that the Council's Reunion proposal will be adopted with the adjustment made in the budget. 1585. As in the past, the changes were primarily technical in terms of outside the two who turn to equality in school work, and an executive has already gone over. Under countless printed page. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Árnason, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Haraldur Einarsson Guðrún Helgadóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, 1st vice president, and Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir. Hv. Senators Onlin Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir and Þórisson Jórisson were absent from the case, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir signed in advance. Finally, I would like to thank you for your cooperation on the committee and with the guests and clients who came to a meeting with the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u64	Madam President. I'm going to address the findings of the General and Education Committee on the implementation of an equal rights programme. As mentioned, I signed it in advance. My model turns to the fact that an economistic room provides a much more comprehensive review of 11 pages, which will help into the Senate arrangement and give me a number of extremely helpful tips that I would have wanted to see that more attention was given. But like a dog. One prominent authority said that there was only one material change that has to do with school equality. Here we will discuss a program that should have been published in 2014, which led to the last implementation plan. I'm sorry it's working now. At any rate, we bring this forward here in 2016 on the final meters of this government. I'm just going to go through the reviews of an ELC because it's in charge of the warning I'm going to make on the Senate resolution. An equal living room points out that there are many places in the program where they feel that goals are missing or that the measures to take are not fully understood. She also feels that there is insufficient evidence of success assessments on the various aspects of the implementation programme. We discussed just how we value one thing and another under it. This is important when implementing a program where people are given some specific work to show them how to evaluate them. An equal room reminds me of 1 1 1. Equalization shapes which stipulate the proposal for implementation and that the application should include the implementation of the Agency's work programme. An equal room for the case. In a paper with the synod to which we deal with it, we say that the proposed individual halllain, an emissary, and an equal rights board, they say. An equal office wanted to confirm that it had not been formally requested to receive from her something about the construction of the strategy, that it had been informally cooperated or interviewed at the time it was proposed, but nothing formal in itself. It's shocking because it's the only government agency in the country to take care of these matters. An equal office immediately makes comments to the administration. I agree with that. I think we should promote the administration rather than hand out tasks. Both in an equal rights programme and in the affairs of immigrants are developing various groups of work, action groups, and project management. All of this costs money and other things instead of promoting existing institutions and possessing a lot of knowledge and tools, and could work things more quickly. It also involves a perspective on the subject field, and it is pointed out that it has an obvious additive effect. Chapter 5, involved in integrating gender and equality, it is stated that a formal task management should be given. It's supposed to cost about 4 billion. K. in addition to the pay of an expert. It's the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. It points out that an economist's office would be wise to locate that employee in an Semitic lab and that the funding would follow according to the nature of the case, so that the synergistic effect would be greater and more effective on the case. This employee could then benefit from a number of other things but just to coordinate gender and equality terms, in which this particular amount of money is to go. Commenting on the fact that this project is still a special project with a special government, it is referred to as a test project, even though it has been legal since 2000. While it is suggested that this work be done in cooperation with an As Rights lab, it is certainly a project done by an As rights firm that can be found on her website. I'm telling people, in the light of this discussion, that there's a lot of stuff on the website of an Astronomy firm. The joint-level project is e.g. one of the factors that we will discuss. There's also a checklist. It is noted that it can be used in the administration process because it is, of course, important, as we know, and is legally evaluated for all the basics with respect to gender purposes. Regarding chapter 7, an assessment of equality and the management of equality, an equal court proposes that State Review be committed to this assessment. In fact, the committee agreed, making a suggestion as well. The suggestion is part of Period A and B, but the labour market and pay equal to the sex. A peer lab points out that data are already lacking on the spread and induction of the IST standard on the equally pay system, requirements and guidance is missing information on the current situation and the induction of the IST standard. I agree that it is reasonable to assume that there is a possibility that before any other project is started. These include a number of tasks that go on into a number of joints. During 2016-2019, annual costs are expected at an annual rate of around 7 million. K. The task is the responsibility of several advisers on the nature of the matter. An equal living room thinks this is really supposed to fall under the E- force, i.e. that the research projects of government and labour markets will be followed by the government's conscious and publicity campaign on sex - related pay measures. As an economist, she believes that she should handle this awakening with a contribution, such as what is suggested here for her to do, because according to equality law, this is exactly in her work cycle. Chapter C, Sex and Democracy includes Talk about the media. D- team in Section C says policy and awareness should be won among the media. We've been discussing a media board before on the General and Education Committee. I agree with the trial of an economist to place extra funding on the media board because there are limited funds in there, and we know, unfortunately, the media board cannot do its job and give us some reports on how it works and what you can do better. The media legislation requires information in the field of gender equality, so it obviously takes much more to promote a media committee than to shape a policy for the media. It is wise for them to take their own course. I make a comment to the expression in section C, to explore the availability of women and men to different media content. Of course, there must be access to the media, not to the subject, and there is much to it. The "B" section C shows whether and how a discussion about women and men is coloured from stereotypes on sexual function. It points out that in the U.S. rights lab there is a great knowledge of the media and sexual manifestations and that employees in the University of Akureyri teach them about these issues in the media science. Then there's good connections to Iceland's University in journalism and journalism. Here, too, it is pointed out that a prime minister is making financial contributions to the media committee, which is thought - provoking. The cost plan is 4 billion. K. This is the location of the court report. There's nowhere to go about financing but there, i.e. when it comes to the discussion of the sexes and democracys in the media. That in itself did not lead to any conclusion, it was not accepted. Still, there's only about 4 million here. A.K., actually, not even 4 million are said to be a year, but only 4 million. In advance, contributions are being made to the project. This is a strategy for the 2016 ◯2019 season. In Article 12, where the analysis of the status of refugees and hospicers is undertaken by gender and gender, an equal agency suggests that there is insufficient respect for human rights or equality in the Icelandic legislation and, of course, need to correct it. The protection of minorities is not guaranteed, nor is it possible for them to seek justice, i.e. Many EU directives have not yet been legalized. We must make it right. Chapter D deals with sexual violence and violence in close relationships. Sector 13 contains a number of things. It points out that an agreement was not established by the health minister, although the United Nations World Health Organization defines violence in close relationships as a public health issue. A manager went over it a little earlier. The Commission reports that the Ministry of Health will supervise the project, and it is necessary to obtain the formal access of health ministers and health care professionals. There was no direct suggestion that he would be involved, but it is clear that this is being accomplished there, since it is especially at home. One of the legal tasks of an emissary is to work for prevention of sexual violence in cooperation with other governments. This points to the European Union's grant to the European Union to start with a project that aims to promote cross-cutting cooperation when it comes to violence against women and children in the north. It has offered to all the partners the most important work in this relationship; rural society, police, health care, schools, and others who work with sexual violence and the consequences of what, of course, is of utmost importance. It has a specialised group appointed representatives to meet regularly and organise the cooperation and development of the whole project and to conclude that there is at first evidence to determine whether the strength is being given. In the 40 years that have been under law for 40 years, a manager did well to review equality and, unfortunately, schools have been unable to fulfill it to a limited extent for many reasons. Sadly, many do not trust in performing equal education. It is as if by gender, the process of doing that teaching is difficult, and many teachers feel that they do not have the means and tools or have not received enough education in their studies in order to be able to teach gender. There are many more details in the review of an In-Valid Office and it is pointed out that in the 29th part of the government's work programme, i.e. In the last non-inferiority programme, the Ministry of Education and Culture has given the strength of over a million to go to an equal education in schools and schools. It was prepared with teachers in several schools for the project and was designed for experimental lessons. It may have been enough to pay the authors a salary for the job and had needed more money to apply it even more fully. An equal office suggested that it be added to the plan, but it is not suggested here. The B- teams in section E are referred to as participating in the sex life of high school, but there is also unclear how to do so. While many beautiful things can be written down, it is harder to do so in the physical world and how we will appreciate it. Here was also a comment to wording on the E team that sounds like: a definitive study of sex culture status in college. An equal laboratory says that the objective is unclear. We're running out of time. It's a big deal, and it's important. That's why I would have wanted to have a lot of discussion about it, because as a woman, it means a lot to me how we're going to handle this kind of approach in the community. When it comes to paying, we often talk about the differences, not in many other matters. Here are a number of projects and approachs, where sex ideas can be better introduced and young people, as well as older ones, are aware of why this is important. The European Union also has comments and excellent comments on this subject, and it has encouraged the development of rural communities from the beginning in such programs. They make comments about not having had the opportunity to do so and mention that, for example, there is no room for it. Pre-schools are not allowed to participate in the implementation of the programme. This refers to the share of men in equality and is proposed to be a challenge for the 18th team in order to increase the number of men in caring for and teaching. It's going to be the first and last time we've got to play games and elementary schools. I see my time is running out. I could talk about this much longer, but this is the main thing I want to explain and which I would have thought would have taken more into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the coverage of the subject and a fine review of the history of an ecretic firm, which, of course, is important. But the question I want to point to. The senator turns to the committee's opinion that the Ministry is responsible for the implementation of the projects, but this is not to say that the Ministry is in charge of all tasks, but that the Ministry can assign individual organisations and project management. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether she believes that the tip of an ELA can be used in performing the projects about who are involved, who run tasks, and who are responsible for their implementation, since this does not necessarily happen within counsel as we know it. I'd also like to mention something else as a boy. A senator came in. In chapter 1, financial contributions were provided more correctly - one of the technical changes proposed by the committee to function, i.e. this in advance if money was made for the project. Actually, it was there because of a failure in the processing phase, so it was not to be brought into the council. This appeared at the last minute, so it may well have been that a prominent speaker was eager to explain it sufficiently in his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u66	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I missed the last one, i.e. If money didn't get it, they'd have it. I confess that I also missed the fact that it happened to the committee. Of course, we have frequently and long ago discussed these matters. Nor is it stated in the committee's opinion that we would have had to tie it there. It would have been better, so they were clearly in a position to do so. Yes, I agree that projects are not all being carried out at the Ministry, and I believe that some of these projects go to an equal office and to other places in the community. But it's still possible to form better, as I went over. I thought it was a good idea and not just on their part, it's critical of lack of communication, we know it. It also showed that it was better to include in our talk and to decide how it would be best to implement it, because, of course, this is a certain amount of cost to each project and it certainly is good to appreciate it. But it would have been impossible to directly place one of the materials under an equal rights lab and hide it. Of course, an equal office has a administrative role and has the law to do some of the things I studied.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u67	A respectable president. I think those senators who spoke before me have done some serious research on the matter themselves. I always find it important when we discuss equality to include in the cultural debate, which will not be in law, but will be placed only by ourselves, by our conduct and by our attitude. You see, at least in my opinion, the human family is in nature prejudiced. I think we all have some kind of prejudice against one or another. We need to be aware of this, and we need to realize that just because we don't call ourselves prejudiced does not mean that we are automatically free from the yoke that prejudice is given to the community and victims of prejudice, which I mean to be also the people who have prejudices. It's missing out on a lot of herself. I sometimes say that I feel sorry for the most prejudiced people because they miss so much opportunity to get to know other people in this world, no matter what group they are directed against. The only way, in my opinion, to achieve real equality, is if we choose ourselves as individuals, not as senators or lawmakers, but as individuals, consciously seeking to face our own prejudices and exploit them, consciously combat them, asking us questions such as why there is a sex palace here or there, and trying to answer them in a positive way so that the same question can be prevented later. In fact, no matter where you look in society, you almost always see it, I dare say, some sex hall. At times, it rotates, which is an interesting pattern, from time to time, and there are reasons why it is equally interesting. I doubt that we will ever live in a society where men and women or people of other sex are determined to live in the proportion of the nation. But I think we can get close. I also think that it takes a change of thought, that people need to look at one another in order to succeed. Justification cannot assume that all of us have the same rights because we have so much in common because there are so many things in common that we do not have in common. It needs to be okay. Hence, we need to look at each other's qualities regardless of which sex person is in general and in our daily lives. Of course, it's going into all the realms of society, not just in politics. Of course, I agree with this matter, as I suppose that all in the council are, and though others are sought, and that they rejoice in the manner of the assembly. But I think it's important to keep this in mind because it's a project we can probably never solve, since part of the reason is our own attitude as individuals, not just as politicians.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u68	Madam President. Thank you. The speaker believes that this is an enormously important matter. A senator came in. Hv. A senator and I agree that we want to turn the community into that there is a lower level of equality and prejudice. I agree that some of the culture and discussion are involved. I'd like to state that I don't have a seat. The General and Education Committee on this matter, which is discussed in the Parliament's resolution and in the Committee's opinion on the importance of improving equality education at all levels. I'd like to hear what I'm looking for. A senator on how to activate the schools when it comes to promoting these discussions, training our children to participate in a discussion of diverse society, and whether the school is where we can make greater use of the tools we can use.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u69	A respectable president. I just have to admit that I'm not a teacher, and I can't answer very closely how best to do equal education or what it should be exactly what it should include, since there is an entire science behind it on how to teach all kinds of subjects. In fact, members of a panel, many of whom are former teachers or principals, or whatever, could say better than I do. On the other hand, I don't think that's enough. It is easy to plan to fix all the world's problems by teaching them in elementary schools. This is hardly the problem that no one has suggested to be solved by teaching children about the material in elementary school. I myself believe logic should be a basic subject, that six - year - old logic should be taught. In fact, I think a lot of things would change into society over a period of 20 to 30 years if it were to be done and that it would bring everything to the better. I've heard of kids being taught to hang out with dogs so they don't bite. You've heard of so much that it's desirable to teach in school. But I must not assume that I object to this, that equality is presented in school and that it is an equal education in general. However, in order to reach that goal in the cultural part of the community, it is essential that we strive hard to see, not one another as a sort of person, but as an individual who has all kinds of characteristics, including sex and other factors. We must be careful not to be distracted, and we need to realize that when we allow these traits to affect our view of the person. There is much more. There is only one factor that is somewhat dominant and prominent in society because of the differences between sexes. That is why they are called sex. It can, for example, be used. Be unconsciously prejudiced against lowly people. It is well - known that tall people often have a higher salary than others. [[The president calls.]] This is a general thinking that I don't think will be solved by the field ministry alone. I think there's gonna be a change of attitude in society. It must, in fact, be in much more context than just gender.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u70	Madam President. Actually, I couldn't agree more fully with it. Senator. As important as I think that we're looking at the world in the light and the way things come in different ways to the sexes, we're also going to need to take many more variables into the picture and play the interaction of different patterns. Being small in size may also be important because more variables are involved. I agree with you, too. Of course, a senator in that we need to discuss the matter as far as most of the community is concerned as possible in a cultural context. But on this occasion, I would like to say that I believe that schools are also very important because they can be a very good tool to balance the facilities of children who live in different homes. There are a number of discussions that can be raised. Like a snooze. A senator named them positive to train their children in logic - indeed, for the benefit of the community. I think it's important that we be trained to examine our community with eyeglasses, where sex is one dimension. Of course, there are other factors, such as. Unlike cultural background. I think we can do so much better there. I think it's true, and I trust we're moving on in the right direction. At least I see a change in my children's studies now in high school compared to the way religion was being taught when I was in high school myself, if we just mention examples. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u71	A respectable president. I'm not going to give up on religious instruction. I have too many things to say about it. When it comes to the so-called glasses, which is a word I've always felt a little uncomfortable, I just feel uncomfortable for some reason, I don't know why, maybe I'm just so stupid. But it may work on some as contradictions to try to view individuals as individuals regardless of gender and to apply at the same time some glasses. I understand that view because I have a certain feeling about it myself. On the other hand, when I first came across the sexment of money, I remember it. Then I thought to myself, " Wow, are we just gonna get this into anything? ' But then I started to look at it a little bit, and I immediately realized that it's so easy to create something of which I didn't intend to do it. I'll give a simple example; when some part of the country has a bad start, the state will clean up the situation and take money into the problem and set up some kind of economic activity. And what is done? Yeah, men's work. There may be an unexpected result if it is not thought of as a result. Hence, if people want to rid themselves of such an influence, they need to be conscious of what they do because they do not do it on their own. We should not forget that whether we like it or not, the pattern has gone around almost the world, almost always so, so that women become second - rate citizens. I think it's very deep in our community that we always have to be on guard because, of course, we're going to try to be a little more civilized than we were 50, 60 thousand years ago in the jungles or caves, or wherever we were back then. But now we're going to try to be in an equal and freedom society for everyone. This means that we need to think about it consciously because it does not happen automatically. Although, of course, I believe that the school we talked about is actually a deeper problem than that it will ever be resolved by the authorities. [[The president calls.]] It must come from us as a community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u72	Madam President. I just want to get involved with this second round. a proposal for a synonym resolution of a non-inferiority strategy for 2016-2019, including to review some of the points that I discussed in the previous issue. the same thing. There are certain points that I would like to reiterate with this second issue. There's a lot of things in the Committee on General and Education Committee. I'd like to state that I don't have time to sit. A panel and therefore did not participate in the discussion of the implementation of the project in that field and therefore do not have all the information presented by the committee in this case, but it seems that there are some factors that are important to repeat even more. I would like to begin by saying that I am glad that the committee has a legal obligation to investigate whether existing laws and administrative arrangements are in line with developments that have occurred in recent years and are actually related to the fundamental issue that I am about to take after disabled persons, especially disabled women. I'd also like to say that I'm glad that the committee picks it up and shows that it was a long time before the European Union's directive on discrimination by law on equal management of the labour market. There is a point that I think is of utmost importance and has to do with other members of Congress that have been discussed and discussed. We can refer to a bill of changes in social security law, as an example, even though the bill is actually only a reflection of changes in pensional patients, but it has been in the discussion to increase the participation of disabled people in a job market as well as that older ones can stay in a job market. Then there will be an effort to avoid discrimination in the labour market with regard to disability. There is nothing but a general law that protects disabled people from discrimination in a job market. Therefore, I also rejoice that the committee feels that it is necessary to consider whether or not the general legislation should be prepared to prohibit discrimination on the basis of more discrimination differences than sex alone. In fact, this is discussed here in a chapter entitled Management Board. I don't quite understand it, but I think it must still be that what the committee thinks about this difference should be considered in the work force, democracy, violence, school, that this difference-change is to be achieved through it all. I think it's extremely important that we examine all aspects of society, not in terms of sex alone, but in fact, we need to take more factors and interact with other factors. Madam President. The first round. on this matter, I made it a special subject to the chapter on sexual violence and violence in close contacts and noted that today, of course, general action is intended to reach everyone, but the experiment is often that, in the end, general action is not to be taken to the disabled. I believe, of course, the matter of disabled people is to be heard in general action, but because we are not in the place where they think we must always remind them of it and assume it in the laws and conclusions we eventually agree with in the General Assembly. Sadly, women who are disabled are at an enormous risk of sexual violence. Most of us may recall the discussion that took place in the fall because there were serious cases of violence that led to society's consciousness that disabled people, especially disabled women, are exposed to violence. Therefore, I find it helpful to get the medical care involved when it comes to organizing measures to cope with violence rather than to think that there are more parties involved in the project. I'm not gonna belittle it. Health Ministers and health care are there, but I think that in this context it is also very important that rural society is also involved because it serves as a very important service, but unfortunately it also happens that it is the service employers who actually use violence. We need to prevent it, and I think there's education there, and particularly for staff, quite enormously important. This is also a discussion of equality in school. It is also very important, and I agree with the committee when she rejoices that all schools should have an even higher level of equality. I agree that it is important to introduce sex studies into the basic education of all teachers so that children can be taught genders. I would like to again remind me of the difference between discrimination and the importance of having it go through the whole system, for unfortunately, disabled students are having no sexual education in schools like those given to the disabled students. So they are in a more difficult position than other students when it comes to knowing the boundaries in close relationships to form and recognize their rights. In this regard, equality in school activity is again linked with the way we are going to deal with sexual violence and violence in close relationships. In a way, I do not miss it more than that, for it has become, as I once said, a conscious wake of the fact that disabled, especially disabled women, are in a more delicate position than other groups. I think it's very important that when we're in general on the issue of equality, we'll never forget to keep the focus on it. I think we all agree on this, but it's good to be forgotten when it comes to taking care of things. In part, I think it's because we are so used to discussing the issues of disabled people in some box called the subject of disabled people while people are in every sort of condition and are part of the community. It is to us here that this too is in all the conclusions and all the laws that come from us at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u73	V.E.G. President. I'm taking an opinion of the Committee with a change to the bill for a song about a change in the social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, child pensions. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted Anna Þráinsdóttir, the Halla of Steingrímsdóttir, and Vilborg, the daughter of Davíðsdóttir, of the Lion Heart, Agla K. Smith of the State Insurance Institute, Elísabet Gísladóttir, from the Children's chancellor, and Þyrí Kingdom of the United Kingdom's High Court Court of Human Rights. News came from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Alliance of State and Towns, Children's People, Lion Heart, State Insurance and Children's Agent. Four. 20. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, says that the government's insurance agency should pay a child's pension when it is known that a child will not be a father. The bill adds to the paragraph that the same value is that a father's child has no mother for any reason other than that of a mother. According to a bill report, a father might have had a child by a surrogate mother outside Iceland and have a single male adopted a baby. The reviewers and members of the Committee generally supported the bill. Yet, it was noted that while a baby was born as a surrogate mother, she was not considered to be a mother to be mother to a mother in the United States, where a woman conceived by assisted reproductive technology is considered to be the mother of a 1 mgr. Section 6. Children's Law, No. 76/2003. In view of the greater part, children should have the right to perform without discrimination due to their parents'status or their relationship to their parents. So the majority of the components feel that it is normal to change 4 mg. 20. legal in terms of social security, in order that the law does not fit a second parent of a child, whether he is a father or his mother. The majority also feel justified that the law applies when a child is brought up by a surrogate mother, though she is considered to be her mother's law. Thus, the majority suggest a 1st par. The bill will be adopted with this change to make it clear that the law applies if the child's mother is a surrogate. In spite of the above mentioned, the majority of the object wants to justify localization under Icelandic legislation. The fact is, though, that such a situation exists where a mother is not enjoying herself because of such extraordinary and special circumstances. The majority of children who come into the world in those circumstances feel that they should have the same right to conduct as other children regardless of their parents'status or relationship with their parents. As a result, more parts support the bill. The child's Ljónshjarta and agent added 20. legal on social security, which includes paying special fees for the baptism of a child, confirmation, cleaning, dental, disease, burial, or other special reasons. They indicated that according to 1 mg. Section 60. It would be permitted to determine a child's due to make such a contribution. The majority consider the results of comments from the child's heart and agent to be of interest to reduce child discrimination by parenthood. Nevertheless, the greater part of it is felt that these adjustments must be made in a special assembly case that is being fully treated. Thus, the majority do not suggest any specific changes. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: 1st par. put it this way: Instead of the words, a child will not be a father at 4 mg. 20. The law comes, "You can't specify another parent of a child." The same is true when there is evidence that a surrogate mother is the mother of a child. The one standing here was absent from the case, but the literature is thought to be in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Kjerúlf Þorvarðardóttir Þólvardóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Stealgrim J. Sigfússon were absent at the hearing. Under these publications. The men of Ragnheiður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, took Konráðsdóttir the daughter of Congith, the daughter of Lára the daughter of Arnardóttir, and Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u74	V.E.G. President. I can't help speaking here at 2nd. I have to admit that I don't understand any of this. This is what is stated in a panel of members of the committee's magazine. European Commission, with permission of the President's office: ...that the government's insurance agency should pay a child's pension when it's clear that a child will not be a father. The bill adds to the paragraph that the same value is that a father's child is not a mother for any reason other than that of a mother. I guess I understand this part. What I don't understand, however, is how to extend this to a child who can't be considered motherless to Icelandic law, even though he was born as a surrogate because of it, as is simply called on in the committee's opinion from a majority of the committees, the standardization prohibited by Icelandic legislation. It's just that way. There's nothing to carve, so I don't feel that the bill goes by the current legislation. However, a greater proportion of cases are also reported in the Committee. Administrative committees that both the Lion Heart and the Children's Agent have added on the 20th floor. legal in terms of social security that the government's insurance agency pays special fees for child baptism, bar mitzvahing, cleaning, drying teeth, disease or burial and that this should be taken into account in the law. It's strange to me that more things don't. They conclude that this needs to be discussed and made up of changes in a special assembly case that is fully treated. What I don't understand is this against no law, that is already in the law that these donations can be given under certain circumstances. As it turns me around, it's a lot closer to making a change in the law and turning it in, since it's in accordance with the existing laws. I can't agree that this bill is undergoing a change that, in fact, opens the back door a little bit for it, it's given a little bit of local passage as part of the system. Yes, we all know that there is a bill for that subject. There are a wide range of opinions about it, so that the river is undiscovered. I believe that there is a need for a full discussion at that level, but not to slip something into the bill that might be said to look small and innocent. So I feel that it is much easier to take in what the Lion Heart and children's agent adds. It would strengthen many children's position and balance their situation. However, I cannot agree with this proposal, nor can I agree with the proposal made on the part of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u75	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by thanking the others. A fine senator Steinunn Árnadóttir Turra Youthy for a good talk and to draw out certain points that were discussed on a well - being committee when the committee discussed this complex matter, that is not to be said otherwise, because on this issue the child's rights is not asked whether he will and by what means he wants to come into the world, so that in this matter he is trying to meet the children who today do not have the rights and who do not enjoy the equal things they are supposed to enjoy. Another case, as indicated in both the committee and the Councilman's case, is that localization is prohibited according to local law. There are very different opinions as to whether or not they should change. We agree on that, me and what. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Thorrah, the Þóra of Árnadóttir, to the tip of the Lion Heart and the emissary of the children at 20. The law of the law is good, and a world of Congress needs to look to them for a clue and act in some way. That's what I'd like to say. A senator who declares that she is opposed to this matter, if I understand it correctly, how does the senator picture the encounter of this group of children who come into the world in this way and are not asked? Does the senator believe that another expression can be used, thereby taking a surrogate passage out of the text so that others could be content?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir for the counter, also finds it important that the senator's case shows that the committee discussed the matter in detail and found it difficult to handle. I'm glad to hear that this is how the discussion has been discussed. Named. Now I don't have a seat. A welfare committee, although I have either slipped there at a meeting as a substitute, so I have not followed this case or discussed it from A to Z and therefore do not know all the arguments presented in the case of the committee, even though I have studied the reviews given to the committee. I have to admit that I don't have the solution to either guarantee or meet children or equal the status of children born with surrogate services, even if it doesn't fall under Icelandic legislation, I just have to admit it. But I believe and agree that it is important to try to ensure the equal status of children, of course, that children have no control over how they exist and come into this world, but I think that exactly the other factor to which the Ljónshjarta Heart and the Children's Agent are put, there are much more children that it really requires. Hence, there may also be evidence that there is a closer start at that end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u77	V.E.G. President. Yes, you're right behind you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra - year - old Árnadóttir found the committee doing quite a job and a measure of depression, so to speak, in the case of a misunderstanding that conflicts with the rights of children and, on the other hand, an illegal surrogate. The committee decided to try to find words that could be different from a surrogate in the text and the secretary of the Committee turned to experts and took a considerable amount of work to meet their viewpoints, but it could not be done. So the Commission concluded that in spite of this moral issue, the child's right to the top would be above, i.e. the equality of all children would be guaranteed by this change of law. But I asked why. One last year, a senator answered whether she felt it was right to leave this small group behind. That is so, and the committee discussed this change in paragraph 20. will not fully meet the concerned group. So they talked about it. That is why this is also highlighted in a committee program. I might want to say this first and foremost, to emphasize child equality, and that a better wording was not found. But I ask the senator again, where this change of twenty measures. will not attend, and we do not want these people to wait for many years, how do the senator anticipate otherwise meeting them? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u78	V.E.G. President. I think and it's my opinion that accepting the bill is not going to work. Then there must be another way to meet this group of children. Hv. One senator said that an attempt was made to find another expression, but it failed to escape the mention of surrogacy. I just can't get it to go up to my mind, even though there's a way here to ensure child equality, that we'll pick up something that's already banned by law. At any rate, I would suggest that this case be held, to another turn on it. I think it'll be very difficult for the future talk and very bad to start launching surrogates into the system without, as I said in my speech, to discuss it in full context of the parts. It may be that there is not enough mountains or this addition to pars 20th. The law of the law, but as I said before, I don't have a place on the Committee and so I didn't have a chance to observe all this discussion. But I repeat again, I think it's rather the right end to begin with, because I really want to equal the status of children. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I just can't see that this can be the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u79	A respectable president. I'd like to go on the same way. I've got a lot to think about, you know, a surrogacy on which the bill is bound to enter. Then there is another assembly case, which was put forth to provide local transportation as a means of well - being. That bill, I don't think there's any improvement, for I really feel it's a worse side of both opinions. I don't think it serves the viewpoints of those who do not allow surrogate services or those who are in favor. After discussing these matters here and there, I have felt that the talk about surrogacy was in the wrong place. We are always doing what we feel is individually morally acceptable, and concern comes up that are legitimate, such as family pressure and similar. Of course, it's a big debate that we don't go into this case, even though I actually think about giving a brief talk about it for these reasons. But it remains that when it comes to surrogacy, it is the right of the children. I can see nothing better than that as long as we have a legal legislation that a surrogate approach is prohibited and that the Law text should not accept it as a norm or at least something legal, that view will affect the rights of children. As far as I can see, I am strengthened by that belief after reading the comments of the Children's Heart, the Lion Heart, and the children's emissary. That is why I wonder: Is this case really evidence that even if we are morally disturbed by the phenomenon, we must allow surrogateism? Whether we like it or not, it happens. Are not the rights of our children more important than our personal view of surrogates?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u80	V.E.G. President. These are huge moral questions that arise in connection with this matter, such as why. A senator entered his opponent. I think it will always be very difficult to ensure the rights of a child, and its rights and our vision of a surrogate approach will be torn on. I don't think we can help it if difficult moral questions will arise in these areas. Therefore, I think it is so important that we take the discussion of surrogates, when it will be, that we remove it from the ground, and not get some sort of loophole where there's a certain normalist surrogate being introduced, as I think it is done in this bill. I think with this bill approved, we'll have the discussion moved to another place already. I don't think it's going to work and it's really not good to discuss this matter in some kind of butt. I realize that the bill will not handle the rights and position of these children, but I don't think we're going to a better place by going to do it here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u81	A respectable president. My problem may be that I can't see better than that a child's heart, an organization to support younger people who have lost their mates and their children, and that the Children's agent disagrees. A senator to see if the bill is an improvement or not, i.e. for the rights of the children. I actually see only three ways. Two people are fond of me in themselves. I'm the only one who doesn't like it. It is rejecting this phenomenon, a surrogate attitude, and it allows the child's rights to suffer. I don't think it works. One of the ways is to allow local transportation, probably by some rule, I assume it's such a Scandinavian treatment. With everything that goes with it and all these huge questions and likely more detailed answers, we will answer them with huge questions when it comes to the surrogate process itself. I suggest that the third way is if we do something the way we try to do it, or if we think we're going to do something about drugs, we're going to do. Legally speaking, possession of drugs for personal use is illegal. But if, for example... Someone who uses drugs is high and needs help from the police, I believe that the person is entitled to police aid despite the violation of the law. That is because we believe that we have taken a stand that people have rights despite breaking laws. I feel that when it comes to children in this discussion, we need to think that no matter what we think about surrogacy, we must allow our children's rights to take first place. If that means unkempt legislation, i.e. Laws that reject surrogateism in themselves, however, assume that surrogateism is to take place and that children should still have something right, I believe that it will be better than to reject surrogateism completely and have the law to take care of the rights of children. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u82	V.E.G. President. I feel that this is an interesting thought for me by reason of reason. A senator and so fully agree that these are important matters. The rights of children are of utmost importance. I also agree that the context of how we approach and deal with matters matters matters. I really can't help but repeat that I worry if this is going to be approved, it won't be for the best of the case, i.e. Children's rights, studying to a very small degree, may involve other difficult questions that we may ever have to deal with. But because I'm concerned about the rights of children, I would say, " Let's take another spin on this thing,'and I know if there's no other way to find a way to shoot the surrogate in there. There must be other ways to ensure the right of all children. Some time later, let's take the big moral discussion, but let's not sneak in something that will change the position of a surrogate in a bill that is extremely minor, and a few members of Congress are involved in a discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u83	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion much. I agree with what. paritaprevir Steinunn's aged Þóra's Árnadóttir on this subject and on the subjects she applied. We've been critical of a lot of local transportation. I wondered in this context, because it is not stated in the committee's opinion, about how many children are already living in the country. Does that give you information? That would be interesting to know. Is there any way to respond to it rather than introduce it into the legislation against Icelandic law? This is actually a suggestion for breaking Icelandic law. It's just not the same, because a surrogate recommendation is prohibited under Icelandic legislation, but it's still on the insurance agency to take part in paying a child's pension against something forbidden. I'm asking why. The head of the committee, it may have information on how children are involved here that are already in the country in this way, i.e. who are adopted either by a single male or by a man who has obtained assistance from surrogate services elsewhere than in Iceland? I agree with a suggestion made by the child's agent and the Ljónshjarta Heart. The social security laws, which include paying special donations for baptisms, bar mitzvahing, cleaning, drying, disease, burial, or other special occasions. They also pointed out that the 1st mg was possible. Section 60. a child's law to determine someone who is obliged to make such a contribution to a child. I was getting an answer right now to a question I sent to the social and housing minister where I asked how many children had received a pension or an education supply from a insurance agency in 2014 and 2015 because of parental loss, the amount of payment and the amount of money they had been from a child's pension. This is one of the things a Lion's heart has worked to achieve the rights of this group. With the permission of the president, I'm going to read the answer here, because some of the issues here are involved, except for the local code. In 2014, consistent information from the State Insurance Institute was paid for the death of a parent because of a total of 901 children and 880 children in 2015, but no young adults aged 18 in school or training were paid these years because of a parental loss. According to government insurance agencies, the cost of child care due to the death of a parent was a total of 288 million. K. In 2014, 8,46% of the total money paid by children's pensions. All these expenses amounted to 286 billion. K. In 2015, 8.14% of the total pay of a child's pension. It's nice to get these numbers out. I would like us to set the law around it, as the Ljónshjarta Heart and Children's agent suggest, rather than open up something that actually violates the law. I'm not going to discuss this matter any more. I wanted to know first if there could be any cases that were already there in the country without opening up to what is being done and entering the controversial matter, surrogateism.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u84	A respectable president. This is where I get the same problem as I do when it comes to surrogacy without necessarily having a strong opinion of myself whether I think it should be allowed or not. As far as I can see, the only way to do so is to forbid local passage is to let it prohibit the children in some way. I just don't understand how we can completely ban it without the incident. That's why I wondered about it, as if I went over a little countering to another or two. A senator. The purpose of this bill is to contribute to the equality of children of single parents, something I know to do. A senator and I believe that everyone in this council hall and even more than the rest of the world would agree, but if we are to maintain our hands when such bills are presented on the grounds that we are opposed to surrogateism, when will our opposition to surrogateism be seen unless it is the opposite of the rights or interests of the children? That's what I don't get. I understand that there are major moral questions behind a surrogate, questions that I do not necessarily know the answers to myself. But I understand the questions about child equality and their interests, and I feel that it must take first place and take first place. I find it hard to imagine how we were going to enforce a surrogate ban without having to get into such problems over and over again, whenever we discuss a bill that is designed to contribute to some kind of equality of a child born with a surrogate mother. I wonder what it's like. A senator imagines that these goals can be achieved without simply allowing this to go through in spite of our opposition to surrogates.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He speaks of single parents and moral questions. This is illegal activity, we agree on it. Today's surrogacy is illegal. Like what? A senator mentioned earlier when he spoke of someone who was on illegal drugs or something, but we would still help him if he came to us and wished to do so. There is much talk about child equality. Of course, I'm a spokesman for children, one of them at the council. That's why I felt compelled to report the questions I asked about some of these matters. When someone decides to go abroad and buy himself a surrogate mother, because it is what people do if they go abroad to buy a child, they know at the same time that it is illegal. People know what it's about to invite their child, whether it's a single male or a single woman, it can also be the case with a single woman. There are sperm banks and can buy the services of a surrogate anywhere in the world. When talking about rights of children, we cannot at the same time say that parents are allowed to break laws and use children to obtain certain rights. I kind of think of it that way. As the senator says about the surrogates, these are fundamental moral questions. I was on a committee when this matter was being discussed. A very interesting discussion was held at the university Institute of Moralology, but that matter has not been made available to us. I feel like we're saying in this that it's okay. That's why I asked, and seeing that the head of the committee opinion is going to respond to me, we could react to the circumstances here. Someone may say that they are taking a stand against the remaining ones, that they may well be. [[The president calls.]] But at least I think it's something people know before they go.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u86	A respectable president. I don't doubt that the majority of parents who decide to take advantage of a surrogate approach are aware that it is against the law. What I can't figure out, however, is how we can enforce it without harming the child's interests, since I guess we don't want to punish those who are not guilty of wrongdoing. It's the parents who break the law. It's not the baby itself. It's where it's hard for me. I reiterate that I am not here and now taking my stand on ethical questions regarding surrogateism. I realize that it is difficult to ask, " What if someone goes out and buys a child abroad? ' I totally understand the moral problems. What I don't understand is the solution to those problems, i.e. If the answer is that the prohibition in Icelandic law simply means that the children of right - to - wrong people have to pay for it. It's hard for me. I understand the problem, but I don't understand the answer if it involves it. If a parent or a couple breaks this law, would it not be wise to fine him or something rather than to let this happen to a child's rights? We do this to various groups of society, and I'm the natural favorite drug users who certainly violate laws but still have rights. We give them certain rights. We don't expect to live in a society where everyone's doing the law. We expect offenders. We are expected that people will not always act in harmony with the law. We cannot wipe out people's rights, much less children, with that alone. I am humbly unable to do this. Why not try to find a way to punish your parents rather than your child?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u87	Mr. President. I don't have much to add to what I said before. When a prospective parent, it is not a parent when he leaves, this illegal decision is a long process. So people deliberately decide to break free and try to get to Iceland with that attitude. Now I don't know how many, that's why I asked earlier, are in this particular example, i.e. Single men, as mentioned here. There was no patent solution for this. The parent who decides to go that way knows as soon as he does not have the right to do so. First, parents are not entitled to bring the baby to the country, knowing why. A senator as well as I, and has had to give proper leave. But people try, and we have responded to specific examples in this regard. I believe that, as he mentioned earlier, we have responded when someone extends his hand and asks for help, but that is not to encourage it. I feel like it's opened up here and there's nothing to do with rights to children. They're always in place, I think, inside the law frame as much as we can. But here, an attempt to go beyond him or to ignore him against the law. I don't quite understand how you can do both, i.e. forbidding something, yet only one item of what is forbidden should be authorized. I don't have any particular solution for this either.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u88	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir For a very good, well - prepared, well - prepared talk, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir It's just that when you hear such fine talks with all these numbers, you get a feeling of inadequacy. I don't have those numbers as numbers. A senator wants to know, maybe because I didn't notice well enough at a welfare committee meeting, but I don't want to say, but I'm guessing that this group is small where there's a law on surrogates and, fortunately, there are not many people who choose to break the law. But I would like to underscore it here again in my opinion, and therefore I would sign the title of the greater part's opinion, we must first watch the child's right in this case. It's like whisk. In the final answer, a senator said that it is the parents who make a conscious decision to break the law. The baby comes into the world. I believe with this matter, we are not trying to promote lawbreakers, as it were, but to react to situations that arise because we have laws -- we try to keep social restraints on the people who live here, but we can never completely stop people from breaking the law, unfortunately. And this case isn't really about surrogates. It's not about legalizing a surrogate. As I came to visit both the committee and the answers in the past, there are a wide range of opinions about surrogateization, and I sense a rather negative attitude toward localism. The matter is not about legalization in a surrogate. Here, only law is being improved in that it is possible to ensure the equality of all children and to respond to the words of something that has been blessed with no responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A pilot for answering me, even though she doesn't have those numbers. Otherwise, it would have been very interesting to hear them. I kind of think it's about two things. That's why I wonder if there's any way we can do it, if there's any way we can do it, if there's any of the fathers involved, if there's any way we can do it, or if there's any way we can do it, or if there's any way we can do it. As soon as we open this up, I feel that we are giving green light, first of all, that it's okay to go abroad and bring a child through a surrogate, second place where Father gets clearly to come into this country with a child which is created in the way that the Icelandic law says is illegal, and third, that we will soon put it under these children's pension laws. That's why I would have liked to know how many people are involved in what is being dealt with, because the purpose of this bill seems to be to say that if you go abroad and have a child with a surrogate, you fall into the system. Period. The child will be allowed to enter here, although this is illegal, and he will be allowed to enter the system directly. We just need to settle: Is this the way we want to go? But first and last, it would be interesting to know how many of these parties are.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u90	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A senator, since I hadn't gotten these data for tonight's discussion, is that there's every reason to look around 3. what numbers are behind that, i.e. how large this group is. I will arrange for the Chairman of the Committee to make a special inspection. The review of the welfare committee was very thorough and good, as I have previously said. As shown in the case of what. Here, the members of the Hrafn Hynns Gunnarsson and the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter do not appear to have discussed this matter with any depth. It seems that people do not have a wonderful, set - up solution to this situation so that moral requirements are fully met. Like what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said that we simply have to make up the way we want to go, how we want to set up the interests we need to look at when we consider the matter. In my opinion, this is the best solution. I think this is what we have to do in the light of circumstances and, in the light of the situation, how we react to things that are present in our society, whether we like it or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u91	V.E.G. President. I got it. I got it. A senator to discuss the matter before the 3rd. and try to find these numbers. I would also have liked to see the National Institute of Moral Science involved with the Commission's discussion. A senator said that there had been good coverage of it. When I was here last present, i.e. As a result of the introduction of a surrogate cable bill, a deeply detailed analysis of the National Institute of Moralology occurred. It would have been interesting to get her friend on this particular show. But I hope we can achieve the opportunity to see these numbers because that's interesting in the big picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u92	A respectable president. I have to say, as it is, this discussion has developed into becoming very interesting, end up with one of the big things that may be involved in getting a very rich discussion in the dining room. Sometimes I joke about how if you want to get the blood flow back to your routine, you have to say nothing more than a surrogate and go. Everyone laughs for a minute, then they say something, and then there's another opinion, and then everything goes wrong, everything goes crazy. But it's just so much more fun. Of course, it's really a very complex matter, a surrogate, and people are in a hot mood because it takes it seriously and it's delicate and difficult to deal with. I think it's worth looking into. As far as I can see, all the sources are in favor of the case, unless I don't know if you call it support or not from the state insurance agency, but I've marked it here, not as a direct support. But children's emissary, the Lion Heart, the Children's Coalition of Governments and Towns, and Iceland's Common Union all seem to support the case on the grounds that it is increasing child equality and rights. I mention it because of what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir mentioned it here in a conversation with me in the hall that it would have been nice to get a review from the National Institute of Morality of Iceland. I agree with that. That would have been helpful. You see, though some are, they are. People don't want to talk about surrogates here, and now, after this discussion, I think there's just such a thing that needs to be discussed when talking about surrogacy. It is tempting to want to keep the issue open to cases that discuss whether homes carry surrogates or ban them or to allow them to have some strict contribution. But I think it's the nature of the case that we're going to find the real consequences of the law just when we go to other psalms, like here. Here we're talking about child support, we're not talking in ourselves about whether we're in favor of a surrogate or not, not even whether it's been legal or not, because it's not suggested here that it be made legal in itself with the warnings mentioned by another particular incident. Councilmen, and I think they're right. But if we're going to make any decision on child support rights and equal child care, we're going to find this problem, that we've decided that surrogateization should be illegal in Iceland. This is the same as we're dealing with civil rights, because the Civil Rights Act really does not assume a surrogate approach. Well, I guess you can adopt, and I guess people will find something out, but I just know that the Civil Rights Act doesn't assume localism because I've seen a case, and only that case, as the fact is a concern to the child, of course the parents too, and it's the child's rights. That's what I feel uncomfortable about this, regardless of how I feel about surrogacy as such. I can't believe that we're necessarily fit here at the High General or the public, if that's the case, in order to assess the value of all other people against localism. As if this case isn't sensitive enough, I feel the same about prostitution. People are likely to think that no one will go into prostitution willingly or will go into prostitution voluntarily. Of course it's both. Of course it's a lot of both. It's not a simple thing. It just means that we have to approach the group of lawsuits first out of reality, since there are conflicting factors, whether people then approve of that fact or not. I consider it a fact, and statement, in fact simply that it is a fact, but it differs from what people have to do with such matters. Whatever the case, no matter how controversial it may be among people who just have opinions about it, we must be told that there are people in this large world who really exist in living their lives and rendering their services free or no, according to some values that are not in harmony with the values of much of the people of the United States. It is easy to talk about some individual case or even a lot of situations in which circumstances are completely unacceptable and no one in this room would ever agree, such as the manal or other forms of oppression, but they are not all. In some cases, that is not the case. Then, whether we like it or not, the responsible part of us is to take our stand to see whether we prefer to improve the rights of children and people in general, especially the standard of the mother of the day, or whether we will have our personal position, our moral position, as a law that will affect the rights of the people we are going to call victims. That's our responsibility. I'm not gonna pretend it's simple. I'm not going to pretend there's one clear answer. That's not the case. But I believe that a law that allows things to do things that otherwise are morally questionable, or even morally demeaning, is better than they were otherwise. I think it's a responsibility for us to take it into account. This does not include consent for local transportation. This also does not include consenting to anything else in such delicate and difficult matters in the community. It is only our job to improve the rights of people in this country and hopefully others as they are our job. But we have this responsibility. You see, I think there's another aspect of this that we also have to take into account that we're talking about a pretty strong force. Many people have a great need to multiply. A surrogacy is something people will do out of a similar ambition as they have to have children over their heads, the same ambition I would generally think, because I think a lot of people would break the law of the land for their children. I think a lot of people just wouldn't remember anything about it. That is not necessarily justification. It's just a description of the reality that we live in and have to assume in my opinion. I used to write an earlier idea of punishing the parent rather than the child because I'm sorry to punish the child. To punish the parent for wrongdoing which is committed knowing, okay, okay? I still think that will, first of all, ever harm the child's interests to the defame, that's the problem. But then I don't think it works that well. I think if people are willing to break the law under the present system, they only state that it is stronger than following the laws of the land, whatever we think of them. You see, it's not just our opinion here that governs the way the world works, fortunately, I'd add. I don't necessarily approve of surrogateism as such. I'm not exactly against her, I'm not exactly against her, either. I think this is a complicated question. I simply doubt that I have the right to evaluate all the moral questions surrounding it. However, I trust much better to determine which legal matters are appropriate to achieve the goal of ensuring the best rights of the people who still choose to use this method and the child's rights. I think it's much more our part here at the General than it is to oversee our moral values to everyone else, no matter how strong it may be. I'm not in itself that it's important to allow a surrogate barrier because localization is somehow allowed, but because I always feel the prohibition of surrogates reflected in law, it's a child's rights. As I said before in answer, I understand the problem, I think, but I'm amazed at the solution. I do not see the ban on local transportation to solve the moral problem that a surrogate service offers and invites us to try to answer. I'm totally against punishing children for this prohibition and this attitude, no matter how legitimate it may be. I see three ways to handle this situation here with us, i.e. Local tunnel status or local tunnel status in the text. We can forbid this with the resulting loss of rights reflected, for example. in opposition to this bill and in the civil rights law, and I'm sure there's much more to mention in the law columns. I think the death of a parent or some kind of penalties to a parent, whether it is guilty or whatever, will always eventually end up with the child anyway. I don't think it will diminish this impulse, but I think it's better to be ashamed than to cause the child to lose rights directly. So I don't approve of banning it, so we're not going to accept a bill like this. Another way is to keep this forbidden, without the rights we're talking about here. You can argue that there is actually only a prohibition in word and that there is little real effect. To me, it is not the most terrible thing in the world that the law reflects a moral message, yet it is not in some perfect law that reflects perfectly our moral standards. It's not the end of the world for me. I feel a little uncomfortable, of course, being such a law nerd, but I think it's better than punishing the children, I have to say. Then there is the legal practice, but by some means, in order to try to protect people's rights best, their surrogate mother, and, of course, the child's primary concern. Then I think, for example, that it must be done under some circumstances, where the standard mother herself has the best rights or at least not the worst, because there is a great deal of difference between people in the world as we know. There's one way. That's not what we're dealing with here. As I said at the beginning of my talk, I think we will always get involved in this discussion when we encounter the problem that the prohibition presents rather than in the discussion of whether we personally want to keep it banned or not. So I somehow come to that conclusion, in line with what I was saying, I feel that surrogacy will be, regardless of what it is said, allowed by law, according to some circumstances we have to make, regardless of the people's opinion on the phenomenon as such, on the grounds that we should be thinking about the child's rights first and then the rights of the surrogate end, as I often say about the victims of the human halls to discuss and the things we should take seriously and try to protect those rights by the best of our ability. Of course, we live in a world where people do not behave as we want, and we just have to assume it. We have to take into account the reality we live in. The General doesn't control everything in society, fortunately. Happily, there is no guarantee that all laws will always be carried out because there is no such authority at home. While the case is that people can break these laws, and they lead to the loss of rights that we can avoid by facing the reality, I believe they are on our responsibility to face them and to create legislation and to take sides in the legislation, such as this bill that we discuss here, taking into consideration the rights of the child and the surrogate, but not from what we personally feel about local delinquency as a phenomenon. Finally, I'd like to say that I'm fully aware that this is not a complete discussion for this complex and difficult matter. In this discussion, people are not likely to get angry because we are dealing with certain basic factors. But I refuse their wrath, both of them useless and unnecessary. It's just complicated, and we're simply to respect it. So I don't blame anyone for disagreeing with me about this even though we're talking about the rights of children, which are difficult, but I also feel that it is important that we have a balanced, respectful approach to one another and, of course, the children themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u93	V.E.G. President. What's happening to me during a discussion like this is the concept of a child's equal rights. Now it is not that no matter what the situation, children may receive the same social security advance. This is also the case with co-administration, e.g., there are different subsidies. Depending on whether a parent is a invalid or not, there are different children's pensions. So I don't think that the concept of equality between children is relevant. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. Here we are, in fact, making sure that those who do not follow the law but who have laws to do with the child; parents have commitments with their children, e.g. When you decide to be a single father with the help of a surrogate mother in foreign lands, his progressive duties to the child do not change. Therefore, I find that in such circumstances, human beings use the word "to be equal " to children. I'd love to know if. A senator doesn't agree with me that equality is not a concept to be used in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u94	A respectable president. It is in the opening opening of an article with the bill, which I did not write and is not an importer, that the bill is designed to contribute to the equality of children of single parents and to ensure that public support for single parents regardless of sex. For me, it's not the main thing whether there's equality or any other word, but I'm quite well aware that this is about the interests of children. Furthermore, I find it completely clear that these are laws affecting the circumstances of children, regardless of anything the child himself has participated in, i.e. The violation of the surrogate barrier. I feel that there's an inevitable punishment for the child, perhaps not in the legal sense as far as possible. A senator would use the word, but that the child will be punished in a certain sense for the parent's crimes. I'm basically against it, whether it's called child's interests, equality, or anything else. About the logic as we speak. A senator suggests that all parents have a commitment to children, but I feel that they do not work against my stand. I simply think that the child's interests outweigh the efforts to enforce these laws. I wondered if this isn't just a argument against a child's pension over his head. That's what I'm wondering, but what? A senator can better answer that question, since he himself presented the evidence. At least I can't see that it's the main thing whether we call this equality or the child's interests. Also, I don't feel that this is the solution to the problem about surrogacy. This is just one of the very many situations in which we come to see the effect of a child's rights against a surrogate ban. Another example is the civil rights. I'm sure there's a lot more.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u95	V.E.G. President. I know it's on the bill, and I say it's about child equality. I just don't agree with it when it's on the bill. I believe that this has nothing to do with equality, and it is really not that it is related to social security to paying some kind of pension with all children. Especially with some equality to do so, there are quite different payments for children. This is where, as we have always done, terms like equality are used if people want to achieve something that is all right in the world, even as it is, just. I see in itself no righteousness to it, when people don't obey the law and have the obligation to extend their children, that they have the right to pay from mutual funds, because men can refer to the child. I know this is a tough discussion. This is not a popular debate. But I don't think that terms like equality are supposed to be used in such cases and say, "I think it's fair that we're getting paid from a common fund because it's a child. Then let's just say it, even if a parent doesn't obey the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u96	A respectable president. I did not take a stand on the existence of a child's pension or at the front of it in my speech, and I'd rather not say that there are any views here and now that he is not interested. It says that the law has decided to have this phenomenon, child support, and it remains that I do not feel righteous, whether it is called equality or just justice, that it takes the children to their parents the choice to use the service of a surrogate mother. To me, it's not a question of legal technology. It's an assessment of what we're going to have to decide here. I think the child's rights outweigh the question of whether this is legally neat or not. I would have exactly the same opinion and would have kept my speech equal if there had been any other word there and also if it wasn't there. It's not the term "secular equal" which controls whether I support this bill or my opinion. I also note that there is no equality in the bill itself, in the Law text suggested. That's a question asked to be added, by permission of the president: ▪ The same is true if a father's child is parentless for a reason other than the one mentioned in 1 mgr. It's on the bill. Then, by permission of the president, the committee will make a significant change: ▪ Instead of the words "child, " there will be no father in 4 mg. 20. The law comes, "You can't specify another parent of a child." The same is true when there is evidence that a surrogate mother is the mother of a child. There's no mention of equality, and I don't think there's any need to mention equality at all, because to me it's not the key thing to whether that word is used or something else. To me, it is a conflict between the legislation of the legislator's decision to keep a surrogacy out of place but, in the same way, force them to create legislation that is contrary to the interests of children. [[The president calls.]] I'm basically against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u97	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend an aluminium program with a change in proposal for Congress resolution on increased financial support. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Heiða Björg Pálmadóttir Pállótttir of Child Welfare and Ásta Sól Kristjánsdóttir and Berglind Ósk from Birgisdóttir, the contingency organization. There were reviews from the Children's Institute, Iceland's Medical Association and Exhibiting Society, a fertility organization. This arrangement suggests that a minister should reexamine the government's payment of assisted reproduction techniques so that the support of the State will be increased, making it easier for people who have infertility to seek treatments for infertility. The proposal was presented early in the current legislature, and since then there have been some changes. At the end of the last year, the IVF Sverige company purchased ARTANA and opened up a new assisted reproductive technology unit in Reykjavík, entitled IVF. The company's prices on its home page show that IVF costs 455,000 bucks. As shown in a paper with the synonym of this arrangement, the government's payment parties for in vitro fertilisation procedures according to the regulations of Regulation No. 917/2011, on the involvement of health insurance at the cost of ART provided without a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance, with subsequent changes. According to Article 1. The Regulation will consider in vitro fertilisation and microfecture. By Regulation No. 1167/2011, the Regulation was changed to the point where only one to four courses of treatment are now covered with health insurance. After the change, health insurance does not contribute to the cost of in vitro fertilization in couples who have children together. The time of the Regulation is temporary, as in Article 8. Hers, and has been extended for one year every year since she was appointed. One private treatment station, IVF Clinicaltis Reykjavík, has been given to treat fertility problems. The committee does not want to decide whether the State should offer a comparable service, but since patients have no choice of which to look for such a problem, the committee concluded that it is not reasonable to pay health insurance for the first time spent in vitro medical care. Therefore, the Committee suggests that a minister reexamines the current arrangement with the objective of paying health insurance to the first in vitro fertilization therapy, as per Figure 1 of the proposal. Then the committees agree to agree to the 2nd party of the proposal for payment of health insurance regardless of whether couples or individuals already have a child. To have a child should be a choice regardless of whether or not a child is for the child. To limit the possibility of a full - scale individual to have another child, the committee feels that it is unrecognizable. The committee concluded that they would wait until they obtained a checkup of three and a half pounds. the number of the proposal. In terms of the 4th point, it is clear that other patients from the country do not receive payment for travel costs, and based on the balance criteria, the committee concluded that this was to be done. Regarding the 5th issue, the committee agreed that more moral questions arose than could be responded to the proposal. So the committee decided to allow that team to wait until further inspection could be made and to take a position on the complex issues that may arise. However, the committee stresses that a minister does not rule out taking the 3rd and 5th counts of the proposal for observation, perhaps even reevaluating them in part or in full. Considering all the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following modification: The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to assign a health minister to review the state's payment rules for assisted reproduction techniques by the end of 2016. The review will include: take care of the following points: 1st to pay attention to health insurance includes first IVF, 2nd that the payer to health insurance will be independent of whether a couple or a family already have a child. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, the one standing here, was absent from the case but writes under the opinion of a fourth - mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. Senators Kjerúlf Ólína Þorvarðardóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, and J. Sigfússon were absent at the hearing. Under the headings of this journal, the article "The Bible - God's Word or Man's? " The senators of Sigríður, the Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir, the Unnur of Brá, the Konráðsdóttir of Ásmundur the Friðriksson of Friður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, and the daughter of Lára Arnardóttir. V.E.G. President. Before I speak, I'd like to thank the Committee for a very good work and a review and a positive payment, but I'm its 1st transporter and put it forward in the fall of 2014 and in the fall of 2015. I hope the General will agree with the case soon enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u98	Madam President. Thank you. A pilot. I'm just going to enter the discussion on this subject. I'm one of the couriers of this case. I've got an authority on the case. I was just reading the case myself. I don't know if all the information has been updated. At least I see in this article that the company has changed its name from ARTD to IVF Clinical Reykjavík. Then, the overall cost of in vitro fertilisation has been since this bill was passed from 314 you. K. of 455. K. There's a considerable rise. In fact, it is stated that the Index rose from September 1, 2015, i.e. The bill tells us that they're close to 414. K. [[Foreground in the Concierge.]] In the Senate arrangement, I'm sorry, not the bill. We can see, then, that it is apparently rising rapidly and expensive. As the damp is in the bill, with the cost as it is today, and with the bill coming forward, it's going to be better, of course.... [[Take it up: Contraction.]] I always talk about bill, it's a pact proposal. The suggestion to walk then changes so that a person can obtain subsidies during the first treatment, which, of course, is of great importance. As stated in the Parliamentary resolution, Iceland's fertility went down to 2.1 children on a woman in 2013, the standard figure for the nation to be replaced by population levels. At the time of the proposal, fertility treatments had decreased by 10% in the last loss. It seems that most of it is due to the payment process, i.e. not being able to cope with financial problems because of initial treatment. It was not clear when the decision was made whether it was different with those who come out of the country. We talked about it only to the previous ones. and also travel costs. Of course, I'm glad that this is a suggestion for payment for the first treatment, i.e. for the first time in vitro or microscopic fertilisation. The committee suggested that we postpone or put aside 3.6.55. The number and minister are urged to continue working with it. In the 4th, it is clear that other patients from the country do not receive subsidies for travel costs, and based on equality, the committee concluded that this was to be done. However, it is stated in the synonym that the rules that are currently valid for inclusion of patients for travel costs for treatment are only applicable to the supplied treatment. Does it mean, then, that as soon as the committee proposes that the first treatment will be subsidized, it is a travel cost for the first trip also subsidized; it also falls to that end? It must really happen, I feel like it's going to happen, but I don't know if it hangs out. But, of course, it's a pleasure to be done, as I say, because we don't want to be like in China where people can hardly have more children but one, because they said that if you had one child for them, you wouldn't get paid. I just noticed what was said about the cost of travel because the proposal says and maybe it just goes directly under the subsidies immediately, if this is going to be legal, it's going to happen on its own. Madam President. I'm not going to have this any further, I just wanted to come into the discussion just a little bit, and I really hope this is going to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u99	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir As well as for the transport and support of the case from the beginning, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir arrived for a fine talk. That's a very good question. The committee concluded not to take this team into account because there are special rules in health insurance for travel costs, and the committee felt that it was not right to take this disease into consideration. So this came to a conclusion. As a 1st importer, I felt very important if I was to say just as it is, that this matter could pass through the committee in some way. The key point was to deal with the two points that the committee saw fit to settle in a good way. So it was a common conclusion. There are now rules on travel costs in Iceland's Medical Insurance and it would have been very strange to suggest that a certain group of patients did not fall under those rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u100	Madam President. Just a right to put it together. I decide to understand this so that the rules currently involved in health insurance for travel will continue to apply to the treatments that are supplied even if this treatment is being used. In the synonym, the first and fifth treatments are not paid for, but they are paid for by the second to fourth treatments. I think it happens on its own, so it doesn't have to say anything further.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u101	Madam President. Here we will discuss a synonym to review a law on a legal home where a 1st transporter is Oddný G. Harðardóttir and members of all categories are involved. Once before, at 144th, the proposal has been made, so it is now a pleasure to have it here for the rest of the year. This is an urgent subject in the light of changing conditions in society. On January 1, 1991, the law of law went into effect and has done so much in the community, which has led to the need for a reexamination. As indicated by the suggestion, the current law has been in effect for some 25 years. There are extraordinary things that require us to reevaluate them. We know what is happening in the scattered areas, and not just where, but especially when people have had to work a long way, there have been times when they have been required to move their home to work and especially if they have been at that job for a long time. We know some sailors who work far away from home, and the communities they work for, have required legal transportation, so they pay their response there. This has resulted in the need for a legal home for the entire family living elsewhere. A man, e.g. a seaman who works at a rural society where law - abiding homes are required to be changed pays their answer and then arrives in his home, where he accepts all services. That is one of the things to consider in this context. We all know that after a crash, many, though mainly men, went abroad to work, and the families stayed at home. Norway even did so. The requirement for legal transport, and many Icelanders went there. This may be one of the factors that motivates it. It is not just a growing industry in a country that has done it. This proposal goes on to suggest that a group of workers be established in order to prepare a review of these laws so that a husband and wife can have a legal home either within the country or when another person has a base abroad. General and Education Committee has arranged for members of the State Department to meet with them; Fanney Island Óskarsdóttir and Ólafur Kr.. Hjörleifsson of the National Ministry of State and the Indriði B. Ármannsson and Björg Finnbogadóttir from Iceland's National Book, which gave us a special report. There were also reviews at the 144th legislature. Depending on different circumstances, it is accepted that laws allow marriage mates to live, e.g. Each in its own place, but not only if one of them lives abroad. In its review at a meeting of the Committee that they were happy and declared support for the proposal, Iceland's representatives stated that a joint reexamination of law on law would also have to be revised by law on segregation. The committee agrees. The Commission's review of the case at the last legislature agreed with the aim of the proposal but also declared that many other factors needed to be considered because of the rapid changes in society over the last few decades. The Commission has been informed that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is initiating a full reexamination of law on law, so the Committee directs to the Ministry to take into account the views of the local community in that work, as well as this synonym. The committee also asked how the legal registration of the children's home would be legalized. The committee points to the Ministry that at the time of the above work, the possibility that children will be registered in two different homes at the time of the interview. The only change suggested by the committee is that this will be agreed upon by the following change; instead of the year in the proposal, 2017. We know the problems surrounding legal registration. This is also true of single - parent families or parents who do not live together but have children together, which is why the European Union's proposal here was made. It is also important to consider how and whether the income strain or the response strain will be divided in some way. It is also about the fact that rural communities get their own, and that children enjoy services within a community as much as the adults or both parents do. In rural areas, where tourism is a high priority and a high priority over the high-resurrection period, especially young people come and work hard in a short period of time. It accepts a specific service at the site, so it is careful that rural society does not carry a single item from the table in that subject. That is one of the points discussed in this context. All of this has to do with legal registration, and hopefully they won't be overly demanding. The relationship is working a great deal, and if this goes on and on, as I hope, in the light of good reports, I can only assume that this should take place quickly, and the work that has already been done both in the ministry and in the relationship can help to speed this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u102	A respectable president. I'm an importer in this fine language, and I'd like to talk for a few minutes about the phenomenon of legal and national records, because it's a phenomenon that I think we're taking for granted in Iceland. I know that having a national record that is available to all is not such a chaos that everything goes to hell, society works completely without having such a list. Now I don't object to national records, but I feel that there is an opportunity for technology to change things even more. This issue is about whether a husband and wife can have a legal home, something that you would have thought had been solved in 2016. The point is, when the State sets foothold and intends to decide what is normal for society and what is normal for married couples, there is a serious danger that there is some setting that simply doesn't fit for all. That's exactly the case here. I think it's more of a case than it really is, that we put people in some kind of box that we don't have to put it in. We can achieve the same goals without putting people in a box, without forcing people to go to that norm, and without setting the rules we always set. So I'd like to come up with an idea that many people think is very radical, I'd like to mean it isn't, which is, simply offering that people don't have to register their address to the nationals, but that they can reach the goals they're going to have by using a technical address. There is, of course, reason why people would like to have their address in a national file, e.g. so that people can be contacted in some reliable way, at least in a legal way. It may be a safety issue. There may be reasons why a person wants to have an address in a national file. However, I feel that if an individual is uncomfortable for one or another, as an example if he is participating in a very controversial international discussion of e.g. religion or something like that, at least for the person to hide his address, is where you store your privacy, your children, etc. I believe that there are other goals to be achieved. That's why I think it's worth mentioning it here on this occasion when we talk about national records at the General Assembly. I don't think there's much need for the implementation of the phenomenon we have. There is tremendous scope for technological advancement that can replace various traditional ways of doing things. As I mentioned at the outset, I am a cohesor of the case, and I reiterate that it's strange that we haven't long made it possible for a husband and wife to have a home in their own place, and it seems amazing to me that people have been put in this box. I'm celebrating the case and hoping it will go all the way through a vote and, of course, be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u103	V.E.G. President. I am one of the partners of this council-sense proposal, and I can agree with what happened to Gunnar's children. Councilmen who spoke before me, that it is really a matter of time that, today, a husband and wife should not be able to have a legal home in their own place. In many areas, it is becoming increasingly common for a husband and wife to work in different communities. I myself have had to move my home and home to a place where I went to work for 14 years, and this meant that my husband and children had to do the same. It wasn't very good for them, but they got over it, so I know it in my own eyes. In fact, for the last few years at that place, and since this work, I and my man have been with each other's home. I'm taking this case personally just because it's a trial in today's society. Of course, we need to act on this. It is only natural, however, that rural societies, which make money from citizens living in a legal home, would like to have those who earn good money within their own ranks. That's exactly how it works, e.g. seamen who have even had to move their home to their important places in order to keep space. This has been a review of the coverage given to the General and Education Committee. I'm very happy to hear that the State Department is working on this. I think it's a great improvement, and it's really just a thing in our modern society that a husband and wife can have their own home. I have no doubt that this meeting will be the best way to make it possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-09-06-147.u104	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on billing to legalize the Land Hospital Building Fund. The bill includes the establishment of the construction fund of the National Hospital in the custody of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, which will be conducted in order to finance new building and major renovations in the housing of the Land Hospital. Clearly, the construction of a new hospital has already begun, but projects have been greatly delayed compared with the proposed ones. Regarding the importance of land hospital construction, the hospital is not further confined, where the hospital is able to accomplish its role and that it is a longer period of waiting. The speakers then point out the need to ensure the funding of such buildings, although they do not necessarily take their stand on where or how to do so. There was no solidarity in the Committee on the implementation of the Land Hospital and its financing set up in the bill. Nevertheless, a distinguished president was on the committee to emphasize that the building of a land hospital will continue and that it will be completed as soon as possible. The Commission points to the government that it is working on further improvements in the facilities of the Land Hospital not only by completing new hospitals as well as by renovating existing facilities. In view of this, a respectable president, the commission suggested that the bill be referred to the government. Ásmundur Friðriksson and Þorvarðardóttir were Ólína at the hearing. Páll Valur Björnsson was absent from the case, but he is writing under the opinion given at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Other than that, under the heading Sigríður Ingibjörg, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, Þórisson Jórisson, Páll Valur Björnsson, the Ragnheiður of Ríkharðsdóttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir J. Sigfússon, the 1st Traveler of the bill named.
