ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the United States Parliament's Council for Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, 11th. Smoke. n., can't do Congress soon. Today, therefore, the company's second vice class member, Anna Guðjónsdóttir Gudjonsdótttir, is taking over the company list, but 1st of the district's list has announced incursion. In the past, Anna Margrét Guðjónsdóttir is invited to serve again. Borist has received a letter from the Speaker of the Independence Party for Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, 9th. We're out of here. "I can't be a member of Congress anytime soon. So today, Reservation 1 is on the Independence Party list in the district, Óli Björn Kárason. Óli Björn Kárason has once sat at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u2	In writing, dated September 28, 2016, the president has requested this, as per the 8th stanzas of Figure 1. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administration and monitoring committees, are reporting on the report of the National Reconnaissance on medical flights in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u3	The President wants to report that there will be a recession at a conference between hours. 12 and 15 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u4	A respectable president. First, I want to express my surprise that this morning's meeting is being held. As all of us are aware, two of the Generals' work plans have gone to the trash bin, have not been able to resist. The second plan says the conference is over. There has been no new plan, and unfortunately, there has been no other way. I have to make serious comments on the fact that there is a meeting when the work program is completed, without being discussed on the Council Committee of the Council or with the heads of Congress at the council. This is a democracies agency. It is not controlled by orders. If the government needs one more day to try to finish some business, it's probably the case. Of course, it must be discussed, but it is not a single meeting that has not been planned. So I call for a recession at this conference, a respectable president, until these meetings have passed, and a natural democratic discussion of this sad state of state that exists in the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u5	The president announced earlier that there would be a recession at a meeting. 12 o'clock. 15 Was It Designed? 13 but also for conferences with members of the council and prime committee, where these matters will be discussed. Furthermore, the president is aware that there will be discussions with him on this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u6	President. It is true that there has been a meeting with members of the council at lunchtime. But we don't have a plan. There is no valid plan for the activities of the International Assembly of Iceland, and there is less than four weeks for the General election. We act here as if everything is normal, as if we can start a regular meeting with unsubstantiated inquiries, etc. That's not so, Mr. Honorable President. It is not acceptable association with the International Assembly of Iceland to present a program that is not normal. We're out of time. The time of this government has arrived. The time for the Senate is out. We need to get into a campaign. It's hard to start a meeting without the president at least settling down with members of the House and the Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u7	A respectable president. I am amazed that the people have usually called this meeting without calling members of the council. That's a good price to pay to do at the same time. 12, but to attend a meeting following the completion of the council program, I feel like just below all the rest of the cell. I hope at this meeting, they put down the waiting tasks, take things down, and try to determine what we can do to finish the appointment, and decide when we're going to do it. We do this most, and I've mentioned it before, in our own life, i.e. valuing what work we have on the table and what time we have to complete it. And that is what we need to do now with all the major issues people intend to try to pass through the council. I hope, sir, a respectable president, to leave the meeting at the hour. 12 Today, there is a practical program that enables us to complete Congress properly and enter a campaign that all of us need to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u8	Mr. President. I make serious comments that a meeting meeting was announced with a program without consulting with the council officials on this matter. A staff plan is over, and it's impossible to offer us this situation just before the election. I'd like to agree with members of Congress who have expressed their wishes that after meeting with members of the council, there's a plan that can be applied and we'll finish this council as soon as possible and we'll go into a campaign. That's what we have to do. Here are some big cases we know we won't finish by October 29th and we need to put together and make up a plan that everyone can accept, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u9	President. Of course, it was clear during the last week that this schedule would not hold. I understand that a work plan could not be produced until it was time for the chairman of the Action Party. However, I must say that I feel completely inappropriate, Mr. President, to set up a meeting before a council meeting. I don't think it's okay. Here are a few members of the administrative body, a very small number. It has to be said, as it is, that we in the government stand experience that we are being drawn to a meeting while the members of the Continental Congress are in a full - costume campaign in their elections. This makes me feel disrespectful to the General and disrespectful to the possibilities, or at least no one is willing to make peace with the council. I wish that this meeting will be opened and the assembly meeting will be held at this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u10	Mr. President. It's totally unacceptable to be meeting without it being past, i.e. the conversation between members of the council, the presiding committee, and the president of the council. How are we to get ahead of the far - reaching ideals in order to learn about our course and our conversations? They're calling for an event in the high school of the country, there's already a book broadcast in both the north and the south, and no doubt more where they want politicians to come and talk about it. It's not possible if we're going to stay here for a while. Well, it's the government post that's inside the council, but the government parties have gone and started doing their campaigns. The forwarding party was well introduced to the Kingdom publisher. I guess he can't complain because it was live on all its policies. [[The president calls.]] I would have wished more groups had been given such coverage. [[The president calls.]] But you wonder, " Does the majority of the government not become a campaign? ' What is it that causes us not to complete this program in the next two days and move on? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u11	V.E.G. President. I'm begging you to be lenient. We've been participating in the adventures of the applicant Party, the council's been disabled by the confusion and confusion of the people. The projection is over because they were not able to participate in congregational duties for the members of the clergy. I expect the highest. The president does not drag us into this fuafen and hold up a meeting of the council for a few days that we might remain here, in order to tie in the knots necessary. V.E.G. President. If the President doesn't intervene now, this adventure is at his command. I urge a president not to take the shame of the government, it belongs there. These matters need to be resolved before we proceed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u12	V.E.G. President. There's no plan for the Council. Even so, some of us are invited to a meeting, and here we are. I find it completely unacceptable that this is a meeting before the council council members have been announced to meet for the rest. In my opinion, it is by no means enough that the meeting should be held at the time. 12th On the other hand, if it is, the highest will. To keep that schedule, I feel that I have no other choice but to postpone this meeting until that meeting is concluded. I don't really know what it is that we should talk about here, except for the President's conference board. Since there is no valid work schedule, the next step must be taken before we think of a normal meeting. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u13	The president intends to stick to the fact that a meeting of the council classes will be held at the same time. 12 and the Presidency Committee at 2 p.m. 12,30, and note that today's program is almost the same schedule that we were discussing on Thursday.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u14	A respectable president. I think it's very important what came out in a case. paritaprevir The Kingdom Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, the campaign battle has begun, and some members of the council may have to care for major districts away from Reykjavík, and there is a great difference in their situation. Senators of the government stand here, participate in meetings and committee meetings and congregation meetings, but they would like to be out in their elections. Then other members of the board of directors in themselves can escape being here and not be necessarily here. As the election approaches, you wonder: These meetings are being set up in the terms of either everyone or nobody. I don't think it's true that some people can be spanking and shaking hands with people while others are doing business here because the government and the Supreme Court. The President can't figure out how to complete this council. This is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u15	Mr. President. I must agree with the view that it would be wise to use the time here for a day and therefore for the evening if it is necessary to sit down and try to work together on how to use these very days that are possible, acceptable, to continue our meetings. I was at a meeting this morning, as I'd probably have more, and it was the first time on time, two and then three for a while, so the four and the meeting times were about half over when the committee was legally organized, i.e. The majority of the items were present. This will only get worse. It's gonna be hard enough to keep some minimum out here this week. Based on what I've seen, and ahead of us, we have something like that. In the northeastern monasteries of events, next week it is impossible to celebrate. It's just not possible. Every day there are media meetings or public meetings that want the presence of all classes wide and wide around the district. This will not be so that the members of the board will be there and the rest of us here are trying to continue the Senate. The President must face the fact that we have these very few days, and there must be a realistic assessment of what you can do at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u16	President. It's the responsibility of the president to set down the program, everybody knows. So I feel very sad that the president would decide to set up a meeting without having a meeting of the council classes and officers to discuss the Senate. We don't have a valid protocol. I'm also impressed that the President is acting like this, because this really means that no pressure on the government is going to be found acceptable solutions so that this council can be completed. Involvement has been reduced so much solely by the way government officials have handled matters. The smaller portion has been very willing to cooperate in every way. We have even been called when there has been a lack of enough executives to meet properly. The fact that on one hand, the more part, the more it is always to breast for the more part of it and much more members of the council - where are they now?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u17	A respectable president. This is not the first time that this institution, the General, operates without a plan. It was then said that circumstances had been unprecedented, and it would be okay to do things in that way. [[Up front.]] I'm not going to compare it, but I don't think it's very good to stand here and discuss at the General Assembly of the Agency and whether the advance party has received attention for the weekend or not or whether there's an interior disturbance in the forward group, because it's totally unacceptable because a meeting is currently set. Everyone knew as well as I do the one in this room that we weren't going to finish the Work Programme on Thursday. [[The point is, why not?]] People spent the entire week talking about a continuation this week. Everybody knew that. The play that is now being initiated here is ridiculous. [[Up front.]] We knew this, and the assembly has been scheduled for the assembly. 12:00 p.m. Since 12:30 and since then, the president has made it known that the directors of the board of directors will meet with the anti - generals today. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're on the cruise, a respectable president, all of whom are calling.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u18	V.E.G. President. I completely disagree with the interpretation that this is the same schedule and was here before the weekend, so it's no problem to continue as if nothing ever happened. There is no valid work schedule, and Mondays are for verbal inquiries, and after a regular meeting with other meetings today, it has been added. This is not normal, and this is only done in a special consultation with members of the council. I completely disagree with the President's interpretation that it can be continued as if nothing ever happened. It's new to me if the President thinks there's no big deal. The rest of us here at the council have allowed us to take note of a work plan, and it's serious to hear that the President doesn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u19	President is taking full notice of the work programme. At the beginning of the last week, the president realized that it would not be possible to live up to the President's assessment programme at that time in a careful manner, in which efforts were made to take account of matters that might be handled at that time. Of course, the president is very sorry that his appointment was not completed within the schedule he had proposed and introduced to a prime committee and to members of the council, as well as to the minds of the presidents of all the political parties. However, that is how it went, and the president will, of course, not bring up a work plan unless he also knows which case is intended to take place in order to complete the work programme. Of course, today's meetings are designed to try to keep these matters going, and the president explained that the plan was also to take place, in other respects, in an effort to reach out for this great project.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u20	A respectable president. Hv. 3.m. We're out of here. It seemed indistinguishable to blend the forward party council into this, but it is just that last week we complained a lot about this lack of organization and that there was no plan and no plan. It became very clear that the head of the Agency was delaying the National Assembly of Iceland, not just a certain government party, but the General Assembly of the Icelanders, this institution. That was the case, it was delayed. A congregation meeting is once again started without lying about what the rest will be. It's the best thing to do. Of course, they should talk first about how we are going to complete this council. That's exactly what it's all about. And what's wrong. A senator previously stated that this was not the first time we worked without a work plan, but, unfortunately, it is not a reason to keep them busy, especially when there is 15 minutes of elections and political parties not only have the right to introduce themselves and their policy to voters and that it is the interests of voters to have time to do so, not just the interests of politicians. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u21	A respectable president. I think it's clear to everyone that what's going on right now is actually showy. It's acting like we're having a conference because everything is quiet and normal when the fact is that the conversations we're going to have are not about to begin. It is incorrigibly, a respectable president, to continue the Senate work under the circumstances that are already within four weeks of election. We're keeping elected representatives and candidates for Congress here in an aimless state of mind, while they should be talking to voters in the spirit of democracy, talking to the public in the country. Instead, we are hostage in this nonsense with no plan, no schedule, no priorities. President. I must insist that we make this happen while it was only natural that we could get out of here into a campaign. I wondered if an independent group and a forwarding group have something to worry about.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u22	A respectable president. Perhaps there would be reason to review whether they had any prior strategy for the Council held this entire terms. It may be that the president remembers someone, but this is at least the second schedule for this council that is not going to work. A member of the Independence Party may well have been correct in saying so and should be known by the government groups. This does not mean that although the government groups have established something at their home, they should not be meeting in the democratic institutions. I'm asking, "Where are the directors of the board of directors?" Here we are in council, the work plan is out, and neither the chairman of the Independence Party nor the chairman of the local parish. We have repeatedly followed up on meeting officials'meetings that it is basically minimal that there is at least one of them involved in an unsubstantiated question period. A minimum requirement must be made for assembly if the government parties insist that it continue. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] But it's the start of a campaign. There are six volunteers to volunteer, who are not part of this hall. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, during conference meetings, unless, of course, the government parties are so afraid of campaigning that they do not trust in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u23	A respectable president. During these last days of the council, there is an odd blow. Now we are sitting in this council hall, I believe there are 13 members of the government side and five members of the administrative body. They don't show up anymore, representatives of the board. They're not working. At the same time, we members of the Parliament are supposed to sit here with no work plan and very vague lines about where the rest should be. Of course, it is not, in the spirit of the traditions that have been in the past, a respectable president, to keep the council without a plan. Of course, if the president mentioned the meaning of the matter before the end of the council, it needs to be discussed with the government. Are they in progress? [[Foreground on: No.]] Is the government at issue discussing what matters we will be determined to complete before the end of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u24	We're on an adventure tour.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u25	Yeah, we're on an adventure, a respectable president, it's a trip without a promise, and that's not a good start for elections. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u26	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, chairman of the Independence Party, came up earlier and said that everyone had known that the work programme would not be going on, and everyone had known that this would be a program for us after the weekend and after the work schedule. Everyone in the House of Independence may well have known this and the Supreme Court. There was a president who discussed it, but we in the government did not know it. I can vouch for the fact that no conversation has taken place between the bosses on the continuation of this council. I'd like to ask Mr. President, if it is not for the presidents to announce a meeting to discuss the Senate ahead, it has not been called in. To whom shall we speak? Neither of the heads of the board is in the hall. Do they have a head in Reykjavík or in the capital area? Who knows, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u27	A respectable president. This inconsistencies that have occurred in the past few weeks and inconsistencies with us who are not members of the administrative system are naturally so disrespectful that there is half that it is enough. It shows two things that there is complete failure among the board members of the board on how to handle their affairs, which matters should be done, and which they will not agree on, or that they feel that they have nothing to do with the minorities at the council. Either way, I feel that the President is now supposed to intervene, cut the knot, and make decisions regardless of those two executives of the board, who seem unable to handle the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u28	Mr. President. The president himself, and especially personally, is not to take any personal interest in the discussion presented here. But she's normal, Mr. President must understand that. It's normal for us to talk about this position and just talk about it in human languages. The government was totally out of work all last week, even longer, because of the situation in progress, no one was talking or negotiating. That week went into the sink, and the Generals would still whistle in a void because one of the directors was in complete confusion and is most likely still. Talk about the General Work Programme. Of course, there is to be, Mr. President, a different schedule these days. That's our team of members and candidates in the coming elections, and it's piled into it from day to day. The conflict becomes so much greater that we do not begin to put our arms around it, and quickly so. It's no longer in my mind about contracts between government and government, it's about putting your arms around these very few days, and the very few things that are realistic and acceptable to be paid here, so there's not some mess in the industry. [[The president calls.]] And finished, and then the council goes home on Thursday night or so. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u29	Mr. President. As we have seen, attendance at committee meetings has been varied, sometimes having a problem with officers on the part of the board of directors of some committees. Of course, there should have been an immediate recession, or rather, a meeting should never have begun until after these meetings were completed. The minority feels that Congress should not have begun today until it had been finished having the conversations that the President announces here at the earliest in an hour. We look forward to the longest conference in history, since September last year, and there is absolutely nothing to happen. There are others who can rule this country. Life does not end, although these government groups will resign and vote with the rest of us. We can handle matters, each member of Congress here, regardless of what government will be composed after election. It is not as if the two categories that are now in power must be completed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is an unsurpassed, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u30	A respectable president. I feel it is inevitable to comment on the fact that the president's content for a meeting in this situation. At the end of the last election period, things were very similar to those of today. Then, some political groups had not made up for what issue they wanted to be granted. Then, President Ásta Ragnheiður Jóhannesdóttir, made no announcement of a meeting until it became clear from the government classes what they wanted to do. It is the natural progressive president who wants to stand up to the Commission and defend the legislature. I must call for the highest. The president completes his career by appointing these pimps, the directors of the administrations, who are not presented as normal... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u31	The president makes a comment to wording a bit. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u32	A respectable president. There is nothing else to be called, men who do not respect the total legislature, who have promised a conversation, and who do not keep it for weeks. There is no other way to use a word such as the one spoken by an Icelandic tongue.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u33	Inflammation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u34	It's just a connoisseur.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u35	A respectable president. Because of the unsatisfactory words made by the United States president, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, to President here, in which it suggested the climax. The president spoke with the Independence Party by himself and cares for the council program, and I would like to leave those words mentioned here and now very unbecoming and unconvincing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u36	A respectable president. I'll just say the word. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir, the head of Congress, left-green, that it's just showyness. [[Finally.]] I understand those who feel that they have received little publicity from the media this weekend, and I understand that as well as well. [[Up front.]] But trying to get the focus and the limelight in this symposium and thus slow down - I'm just seeing that the schedule of the day is a significant one.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u37	Do you know what the plan is?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u38	This is a four-year transport plan, or don't you want to talk about it? Why don't we just try to get things going and keep talking about that plan? [[Up front.]] There's a lot of stuff we have to work on here. Should we stand here and talk about nothing going on when we want to get out? So why don't we just put together and finish these things so hard? Senators can get into their campaign? [[For example, consider: What work?]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Take it up: bring the list.]] Let's finish work, and then you can go to your campaign, okay? Senators. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to agree that we're done with these jobs and we're gonna get this over with. True, it's a small requirement that we know what we're going to finish and get going. If that's just the schedule. A senator would like to get through, so I suppose that would be the end of a conversation. But I expect it to be. Perhaps a senator would like to speak with the council class or two. Of the fact that it was known last week what it would be, it was evident early in the week, and earlier, quite many days ago, that a work plan would not be expected. There is no excuse, a respectable president, but it just emphasizes that we should be close to being able to talk before we have a meeting. The fact that something has been known last week or in the last few weeks is not that everything is on the frying side of a work plan, but on the contrary. Hv. Of course, a senator will direct in his speech that this is a filancy, but we are discussing a meeting director because these are comments about the President's conference board. [[The president calls.]] She could be better, we know how she could be better and there wouldn't be any problem having her better. I don't understand, Mr. Honorable President, why this must always be so difficult. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u40	V.E.G. President. The fact that these are on the schedule today that are the same or similar to the ones scheduled for the last week is certainly no reason on the matter of continuing a normal meeting. Mr. President. That is exactly the opposite. This, of course, shows that there has been no plan in these last days and in the last few weeks, only underlining the need for a meeting with members of the Parliament at the General Assembly and creating a plan to work on. I agree with what's been said that this conference is nothing but showability, and here nothing will happen until it's settled down and set up a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u41	A respectable president. Just before this discussion, the president said that he himself would have to know what subjects should be completed so that a work plan would be submitted. You see, the President himself doesn't know what the plan is. Is it not because they have not been spoken to the opposition and thus the seminars in the spirit they expect to be based on the laws of Congress? The administrative body is not here to work, as it is obvious, and the meetings that have been held during the last days are thus the norms, as it has been pointed out. Of course, the meeting should be terminated or at least pauses at meetings and sits down with representatives of the government and establish a work plan and decide the issues that the president himself claims to be in fog with whether or not to complete. [[The president calls.]] It is time for the president to proceed with the program and to conclude the meeting and counsel of these last days, as it would be appropriate for a president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u42	A respectable president. It is very interesting to come in as a deputy in the final meters of this council. To tell you the truth, when I was called to the council this weekend, I thought I was here to do some useful work and not to dangle here for a week without working for my salary. It's nice to go out from time to time, I've taken my place several times during this terms, including, and a zeros, and then I come back to this stage and watch. I would have kept in view of the short term that the government had plenty to do and would welcome all those who want to participate in democracy and bring good things through. A respectable president. I hope that first we get to see a work schedule that we can use this week to work on and get good things going. I imagine that those who are going to a volunteer, some of which are in the hall, not a lot of people at the end of the day, would like to have the time next week to get along with them and their cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u43	A respectable president. The current situation at the council is completely unpleasant. I have sometimes compared it to being in school without having a teaching plan or taking a test without having a reading list or even being on a test without knowing when the test should be on. [[Foreground on, or what trade.]] Or what trade or clock what. Is that six o'clock in the morning or six o'clock in the morning? No, you don't know, so you just miss the test and fall. It is a matter of minimalness that we get some framework for any upcoming matter of Congress. This is a minimum requirement, and no aggression in my memory is asking for it. Training went relatively well last week, the preceding week, and the preceding week. I don't understand how difficult it is to grant a petition to put some organization at the council now when the most major dramatic political events of the year are probably over, which, of course, are the forward party council of the forward party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u44	A respectable president. Here comes up a senator who says we're here because we're attentionful, we haven't got enough attention this weekend. It doesn't make any sense. But what I've learned during the three years of this assembly is that attention is not being given to the President's conference board. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's the last part to get attention. What we're pointing at - Mr President, I encourage you to do. A senator listens to what we're saying here is that we're going into a campaign, some are off, some are starting a campaign, and it's not normal for the government to sit on the council, on the committees, and do the job. Hv. A senator says, " Let's just get it over with. ' What business are we going to finish? Shall we finish the drinking business? Is it going on? [[Up front.]] Why don't we finish the case where we were supposed to unite the Minja Institute and the National Museum? We're asking for a plan, and it's perfectly normal for us to ask for a plan. Hv. Surely a senator would not run his business unless he had a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u45	A respectable president. This spring, we learned that the reason this government would have to go on is because she wanted to put a bill on the next steps regarding the removal of a currency burglar through the council. It worked out last week. In fact, there was no general at 2nd. that matter last week. But all right, that's all. Now we need to know what this government is and what it will do. I feel that it is a responsibility for the president to continue our meetings under these circumstances. We're going to election in a few weeks. Trust in the Council has awaited many challenges, and the appearance of the politics has been impaired. It is not appropriate to continue here with the Council as a policy run, with the heads of the administrations somewhere, God knows where. Are people celebrating the conclusion of yesterday, or what are people doing? At least they're not here, at work. They fail to do their job, and prime minister has failed to care for what he said he was going to do last week, talking to the government opposition about the end of the council. Under those circumstances, the president should just do one thing, i.e. to postpone a meeting and not return to report until these men respect the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u46	There are social and housing ministers, industrial and business ministers and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u47	A respectable president. A national protection and use programme is one of the major topics of the same time and has been on the agenda for both its members and its other teams for many years. These include tools and attempts by those who want to use and those who want to protect in order to reach a balance point and to reach a common understanding on a certain basis and specific rules. Now, this is one of the big things that are under these elections and the highest. The Environment Minister has carefully suggested that the end of the 3rd step of a framework program, which is the first stage of working under the law, from the last term to the full, where there is no longer a provisional principle but the procedure under the law. V.E.G. The Environment Minister proposes the procedure by law in consultation with the highest level of agreement. A industrial minister took note of this. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, president of a misdirected professional committee, had the material views that were to be considered in an appropriate way and discussed it particularly during the first few days after the case had been referred to. Business committee. In view of the highest. Minister has not expressed himself about the position of a frame plan in her mind but is also the minister of whom the Environment Minister had indeed consulted with the contribution of the case I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister if it is not clear that the Minister stands united and clear behind the proposal of the Environment Minister, which will be discussed at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u48	A respectable president. You're right to the highest. The secretary of the environment applied the law and made a suggestion to the council in good consultation with me. I can have all my opinions on this process, and first I want to say that I'm very thinking about where we have a frame plan. The objective set out two decades ago, a work programme on the protection and use of natural resources, was to make peace with this important series of issues with which there are differing opinions. This was to be about us trying to map the natural resources with these views in mind; what to use, what to protect, what to wait on until further information is available. I want to say that I feel, and I'm thinking about it, we haven't managed in this room to make that peace. In terms of the proposal as the highest. A minister of the environment arranged for me to say that I thought it was the best thing to do. That is why I supported her before the council. I thought it was important for the project management to succeed. I've criticized, did it during the process, that groups 3 and 4 have not been submitted, and so the project, can be said, not finished. But as the situation was at the end of that job, I still felt that it was right for the project management to come, and I supported it to the highest level. Environment Minister made the proposal for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u49	A respectable president. This, of course, is an extremely precious and important process for discussion. I agree with the highest. The minister that there must be an ongoing assessment of how this will be most useful and how we develop it from year to year. I think we should talk about it at any given time. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer to its support for making the case, which, of course, is what is presented almost in both the case itself and in the historical history of the Supreme Court. Environment Minister. But what I want to ask the highest. A minister asks her to sharpen her later answer is whether she acts in a material way with the suggestions being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u50	A respectable president. I actually stand by what it says as far as it reaches. I supported it, as I said in my first reply, that this is how the motion would be presented and that what I said earlier that it was because I thought it was the best possibility of the situation. I don't think anyone who has come up with this process and that this proposal is coming now is completely satisfied with that proposal. That's what I'm going to say. This was my best possible landing, and I thought it was important that the project administration be completed and that the proposal be submitted to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u51	A respectable president. I feel that I have met too many people who in some way have fallen between the time of the right to have an obtrusion. It is for a year, a particular period of work, and the amount of work that the person has worked. If people are e.g. In 50% of the studies, the rights to do so are severely restricted. One woman I met was doing part - time work, and because she went down to 25% in one month, it had a significant effect on what she got in the maternity room. Another woman I knew was in a maternity clinic, then not in a labor market for two months because she had many children but was not registered for a job, and then when she becomes pregnant again, perhaps not quite in the right time, she gets a lower birth easily because she wasn't in a job market for two months. I feel that this is too random, and I began to wonder why it is such a high priority to earn the right to a maternity vacation. I don't have to earn the right to go to college or high school or go to a hospital or whatever. For example, who decides that the employment rate should be 25% instead of 20%? Also, if people are coming home, e.g. From the Norwegian countries it can be difficult to get into the system. In accordance with this Regulation, and I'm not going to act as if I'm going to leave it in and out, you have to have a job ten days after you get back to the country. We want people to have children, and we don't want them to be random what's going on there 18 months before, and there may be reasons why people are like that. Not at work, maybe caring for a sick relative, or what do I know. Why doesn't everyone get a proper birthlord? Why is it necessary to earn the right to obtain a decent amount? If people have not been in the job market or if they have been in 50% of school, they get 50 of them. K. [[The president calls.]] Is this to be earned, or how do we really think of this system?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u52	A respectable president. The birth failure system, the unemployment reform system, and the payments in social security are all in one way or another. People earn certain rights, it can be based on employment, on the basis of farms, but there are clear laws in the law on how people earn their rights to pay. For the tip of the birth vacation fund, he is financed by the insurance fee. It is fundamental to my mind that there is an agreement between the labour market partners, employment unions and union unions with state and rural groups on how we are going to carry out the insurance. On the other hand, there have been demands to cut down the insurance money and to increase the financial expenses in these large transfer systems. We've been reviewing the suggestions given to me by the committee on how to adjust the payment so that people can get 100% money up to 300 yous. K. and then 80% up to 600 up. K, and, however, to extend to a certain step of the time that people may be exposed to permafrost. At the same time, we have considered comments that are involved in the calculation itself, which have come from those who have been paid. In effect, there was a disagreement between us and the birth of a stock, which was cut off at the U.S. Marshal's Office, as to how to interpret the law. However, there is also a need to make certain adjustments in order to explain this better. There were some changes in the bill that had been discussed in the summer regarding a change in the law of maternity. I think it's very important, too, like the other. A senator, although not part of the proposals made by the committee, pointed out that we are going over the pay on birth or on people who are not active in the workforce. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u53	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. But what I don't quite understand is why people have to earn the right to go to maternity school. We want women to have children. I understand the need to earn the right to go to a school permit or something like that. I'm worried that I'm hearing too many stories about people falling apart. Then I am not even talking about people who are not at work but who may not be working too hard in one month. How can it be that if a part-time person gets 10%, say 20% employment ratio in one month, 70% in the next, then the month doesn't apply as she worked 20% because it has to be a 25% minimum? I feel like there's so much madness in there. I know there's some thought behind it, but sometimes I feel that we too are stuck with regulations that no one knows what happened to them. It's usually women who take the six months. Why do we not demand these unemployment benefits, for a certain amount? Why do parents not have the right to a certain amount, 300 to be exact? K., when they're at home with small children? A government government who's willing to put money in order to pay off the house's debts must want to handle this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u54	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said that there is a bill where we study the rules of accounting for operating on rights in maternity vacations. However, I cannot agree with the senator that I believe we should take the step back, which turns on foundation, including the steps we take. Our rights in the maternity room for employment unless there is something that the labour market members agree to do. It hasn't been part of the suggestions I've been with on my level. I also mentioned that we have been going over a so - called birth - strength that they receive that they have not been paid at the job market when a baby is born and what we can do to raise the amount. I'd also like to remind you, because we've been talking about 300 yous. A.M., including in the social security and forwarders were the first to conclude on the importance of increasing the minimum labour market to 300 levels. However, the fact that we are not yet there. Thus, there are working people at the work market who pay much of the tax that comes to the State that finances our vital welfare system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u55	President. I, like undoubtedly many other citizens, got into the rush of a series of new trends over the top of which the next president of the category would be waiting. I did so in conversation with the European Union that the candidates viewed the situation as being different, including, as being different. by Bgreitt, so if the people chose to continue the terms of membership, they would have to start from zero. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister of State, how he will see them if the advance party is involved in making a national bill for the continuation of the meeting, which I did not notice to be some particular policy of the group, but I have not read everything or was accepted at this convention for the weekend. But I find it very important to try to find information or hear from the highest level. Minister how it will be carried out if the people choose to continue their business affairs. I noticed a very extensive change in policy since last year at the Synod Summit, which states that the advance category considers a significant risk to follow the correction of the electrical cord to Europe. This year, the forward category continues to celebrate a report on the efficiency of a cable to Britain and the government's scores to investigate a contract with the British government on long-term agreements for electricity purchases. I wanted to know why such a change was made in this particular group of subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, I want to review the situation in the European Union following the Bgret. There are a lot of uncertainty ahead, as a senator is likely aware, and we in the Ministry of State have done a huge job to cope with it. We've been setting up the possibilities for Iceland. It's just that there's a whole lot of shit going on now about how people are going to react to this. The latest data from the British prime minister suggests that they are not even concerned about being participants in the internal market of the European Union. Therefore, because of the importance of the British in our existing foreign trade for centuries, we have been convinced that we need to see what will be done in the European Union before we take other steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u57	But if the people want to have business relations?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u58	- If the nation is interested in applying for involvement in the European Union, it must be a national agreement first. That's always been my opinion. Regarding Bbifit, we need a lot of work to do and we're already doing it. [[Up front.]] - I'm explaining how we have to approach this subject. First, we need to establish a interest analysis of Baltrexit. That's what we're doing. And if it is paid nationally and it is willing, it will, of course, be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u59	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect the reputation of the speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u60	President. I make a lot of notes. This is the second time I've asked the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, which are very separate, and ministers repeatedly prefer not to comment directly. Finally, the minister spoke about how good it would be to talk to one another. This is a time of inquiry to ask a minister about specific matters and Ministers must answer to members of Congress, that's just the way it is. That's why this question period is. [[Up front.]] I reiterate my question: If the nation decides in a national fee, as the advance party promised more than once, to continue the business affairs, the minister and his party are going to take the case from scratch, or to take advantage of the work that has already taken place? That's the first question. Then I wanted to hear about a major change, since the forward party's attitude was shattered by a cable to Britain. That was the questions. It's simple. Answers, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u61	A respectable president. I just like to review the situation and see what it's like in Europe. I feel like a whale. A senator simply does not notice the recent developments in the European Union. [[Up front.]] - I'm answering. If the people decide that they want to continue their business ventures, I don't think it's unlikely that people will go through the current work. I think it's wise. But because the difficult chapters were simply not opened, I think that, of course, they need to start from scratch. They did not have the wisdom to go to the most difficult part of the world, see the seabed policy, and other factors linked to it. That's where we probably have to start from scratch. They thought it would take far less time than it did. However, the Israelites were not authorized to take this journey, and that is why they did so. Regarding the cable, I believe that whenever new information is received on the possibility of an open mind, it is urgent to look at it. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we do. Something else would be excluded in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u62	V.E.G. President. I come up here to talk to the highest. Social and housing minister on issues of immense interest in young families, i.e. the birthworm that has been discussed in this question period, but I'm more in the general line on its extension and on the increase in maximum pay. The newly elected head of the advance party, the highest. Prime Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, this morning declared that the birthworm was one of the main priorities of the party and that the forward movement of the Party was clear. There may be some increase in ambition, but the entire terms of this term have been in charge of the maternityum, as has been done in the Ministry of Health. Along with the Independence Party, the media had the responsibility to cancel the extension of the hysteria. Had the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir been allowed to stand, the birthworm would now be 12 months. In turn, the maternity was up by 20 o'clock. K. and they went up to 370 you. K. and has lasted three years without movement. We see that birth rates are now reduced, which is a serious matter for Iceland that has claimed one of the highest birth rates in Europe. The effect is also negative for equality, since fathers are less pregnant. The nature of the matter may be the mothers who take a little longer off because of breastfeeding and such, but the fathers are less involved in the worm, affecting the position of the sex in the labour market and, of course, the right of children's fathers to shape their relationship. [[The president calls.]] So I ask: How is the increase in the birth serpent's maximum favors and its extension? [[The president calls.]] We have no problem getting ourselves involved here before the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u63	A respectable president. Thank you very much for asking. I would have liked to see the extra money into the birthworm system during the season, such as other cases that have been heard under me. However, I felt that it was very important to get results in the work of a committee that I mentioned in my answer to my previous inquiry regarding the birthworm. It was my hope that a joint decision could be made between the labour market parties on how we were going to rebuild and then build up the birthworm system. The budget guarantees next year's funding in order to raise payment to 500 levels. K. in the system, however, there are no other suggestions in which the Commission suggested, on the other hand, 100% money could be paid to 300 yous. K. and that the roof would go up to 600 thousand, which said 80%, and then the mole would be extended in steps of 12 months. It was particularly important in my opinion, and there was support to the proposal of a greater part of the Committee directed by the former senator, Birkir Jónsson, to conclude on these changes this weekend. This gave strong support to our doing all we can to ensure that these suggestions would have to come true during the next term. I really hope that employers will change their mind and look to the importance of being used to finance a new and better birth - relic system, for all of us are truly concerned about what is involved in the birth rate that is due. A senator mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of honest answers. I have two questions. The media tell us: This is a priority, and it is important to us. Then I'd like to know what thoughts went through the heads of the candidates and what was discussed in the conferences of candidates when the birthworm was removed at the same time when hunting was being dropped. What estimate of interest was made by the Annexe Party? Why was the forwarding party ready for their priorities? The other question lies to our bill in the United States, where there is an increase in the maximum rent and extension of the birthworm. If the advance group is really so intense about these changes, is it not ready to make more of it through the smaller section or the management position on the welfare committee? We are ready, and so have the forward groups shown in these last days. Don't you think it's nice to give it a bill and show them what your priorities are?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u65	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. The question is, what were we wondering about when we took control of this country? We thought that it was especially important to start by making money so that we could finance what had to be done in the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u66	With a reduction in their hunting fees?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u67	That is why we put emphasis on setting things straight with the domestic debt, rebuilding the home position, and restoring the Icelandic economy here. During this season, we have seen that what we have done in this regard has been very important. The domestic situation is now with the best known in the North countries when it comes to their debt. We have economic growth here that is hardly known within the OECD countries and we all have grounds to continue to promote our good welfare systems. I know there'll be a lot of good cooperation here, as it has been in general when it comes to welfare matters at the council. I'd also like to say here that the forward squad is in the administrative business. [[The president calls.]] We're working on finishing a particular matter and we're going to do it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u68	A respectable president. I'm going to first beg pardon, for I'm going to ask for it to the highest degree. Minister for travel. The matter of security here at the airports at the southwest corner that is somewhat connected with tourism. Then I'm going to ask her as a 1st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Because not least is the Keflavík Airport and the news that this weekend has been received that Istavia has evaluated the cost of opening up a so - called emergency path south of Cheflavík, which will now be shut down or has been shut down if I know it correctly. According to this information, the cost of opening a runway in this flight policy is only 280 million. K. As the senators remember, the price of the money in the land, which was given to the rich, is already much higher than the expense. Thus, there are incomes that can easily be met by these expenses. I'd like to ask the minister, both from the point of view of travel and the demand for safety in air transport here on the southwest corner, as well as the 1st. S.k., whether it is important that we open such a course in this flight policy here on the southwest corner now that it has been shut down in Reykjavík. At one time, when the vote was held in Reykjavík, there was a promise that the two railroads in Chefavík would be opened up so that the two would be allowed to stay here in the lake swamp some longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u69	A respectable president. I noticed the news, and the cost assessment that happened this weekend, made up for publicity by a senator. If I don't forget, it's about what it takes. 280 million. K. To rebuild a runway like a dog. A senator mentioned. I don't need much time to answer that. Of course, we are expected to do this in order to ensure flight security, in view of the state of Reykjavík airport where the emergency route has been closed, as man knows. I can't say that I have been at all costs to agree with that decision, but that doesn't make any difference because that decision has been made, that course has been closed. I can answer for my parts, both as secretary of travel and as well as a resident in this country, that although I do not live far from the most perfect hospital in the country of Smokeytown, I believe it is our duty to ensure safety for the people of the country both in hospital and elsewhere. We live in a country where weather can be devastating. I saw it this morning in my hometown, where thunders and lightnings struck. My husband looked at it when an airline plane WOWer got three lightning flashes in front of our living room window. We can expect everything, so we are obliged to make sure that flight will be as secure and secure as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u70	A respectable president. The budget has been paid 440 million. K. For the land, besides sharing in the right of construction, so I believe the monotonous to engage in this act at Cheflavík, and I welcome the proclamation of the minister there. I'd like to use the second answer to ask a minister if it's not safe to talk about an emergency route in this relationship. It is, as the minister has said, this path has been closed. If this were such an emergency route and it wasn't more costly than to open the same track in Keflavík, wouldn't a responsible government have long been opening a track in Cheflavík, as soon as she dislodged the sale here in the Hydromur? Would she not have made such decisions? At least this does not seem very urgent when the track has been closed for months. Is it not, then, a false claim to call this an emergency route? Is it not a fall to cause concern about public health or other unnecessaryities? There must be an emergency runway that can never be closed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u71	A respectable president. Now I think why. A senator is trying to get me out of a conversation that I would kindly ask for, i.e. For a discussion of Reykjavík's airport, taking sides with him, or at a reception. I don't think it's the subject of this inquiry. I want to make it appear that I support it as the highest. The local minister is doing what we saw in the media this weekend, i.e. To rebuild this runway in Keflavík, this flight policy. I support it to ensure flight security, as I did earlier. In terms of an emergency route or not an emergency route, I will keep those answers and keep them by myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u72	A respectable president. Now it is revealed that the president and vice president of the second board are on a campaign in the country. There's nothing wrong with checking, of course, political leaders should be taking campaign tours in October. But that is exactly why this meeting is not to be held because the election's fight is to be begun and the work at the Council is due to be over. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I direct the firm recommendations to the president that meetings will be stopped until the government groups know their own smoking advice, what matters they want to handle, and what plans they want to have up here, because this absolute lack of policy is not going to work, honorary President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u73	A respectable president. This is where the meeting of the council classes has been scheduled. 12 and the clock need eight minutes to 12. Is it not clear to everyone that it is just bullshit to continue this meeting for seven minutes and begin the next session? What's the point of this madness? What is the point of making such a mistake in dealing with the Council, not doing what is obvious, taking a break at the meeting after an unprepared question period and taking part in a meeting of how we are going to finish this here? Time has come out, noble President. The time of the government is at hand. The time for this convious part is out. We need to get in touch with the voters of the country. It's time for the election, and it's time for the end of this greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u74	Madam President. I guess you could say that I'm going to fall out of my head with a dead body. I think it's almost funny. V.E.G. Earlier this morning, the president said that a conversation was not reached to determine which subjects should be concluded. Now it becomes clear why the conversation cannot be achieved. That is because the chairman and vice president of the second class are traveling through the country for the very same purpose as we should be, i.e. They're in a campaign. This is where we can see the highest. The minister of the Foreign Minister, the deputy candidate for the Mission, so you can reasonably conclude that these are the chairman of the Independence Party and his vice president, who are far away from the council. That is why, because of their absence, that cannot be had the conversations that lead to some sort of conclusion. I did not participate in discussions about the President's conference board this morning, but now I'm so relieved, Madam President, that I feel that I cannot help but postpone this council until it is possible to transfer the gentleman who is directing the Independence Party to the council so that we can have a conversation with him. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u75	Madam President. I have to agree with those who have spoken here. Of course, this is kind of embarrassing, and this was what we were pointing out this morning that it's time we had a conversation with the people in the country by face. This does not apply just to some. That is true of all of us. That's why it's completely unacceptable to be in here without the fact that it's taken care of. Of course, the time has passed to start the next team, i.e. the questions to ask. It's a matter of intermission. 12 and the time left before noon is exceeded by preconceived ministers and sneering ministers. So I have reason to believe that we're going to finish this now, and then we'll see what we're going to do afterwards in the conference conversation with the council president. I hope the heads of the government are able to meet here for a meeting and converse with the directors of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u76	President. The lack of respect for the President of the Generals is absolutely in his own company. The lack of respect for the head of the Independence Party and its vice president is complete with the council and the public in the country. The lack of respect for the seminary is absolute, for I have not heard the current prime minister and the newly elected president of the Party talk about how we are going to complete this council. We've done what we should have done at this council, which has been suspended, and now we can go home, a respectable president. There is nothing else that needs to be settled during this assembly, for there was never a way to resolve any other issues. We've allowed the government to go through all the issues it has been able to complete, but that's government opposition, and that's just the way it is, President. The sooner you admit it, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u77	A respectable president. I don't see the point of continuing this meeting, especially in the matters set out here at the end of this question, a transport plan. Before a meeting was delayed before noon, I asked for the chairman of the Independence Party and the Deputy Director of the Independence Party. I do not understand how Congress can be continued after the Council's work programme is completed and the chairman of the second legislature party is not even there to discuss the rest. But the other is to bite your head off if this is to discuss a future transport plan at the meeting and the secretary of state, the secretary of transportation, is only on a campaign east of the sea. A respectable president. That cannot be true, although it may be her fault to address any questions here, when the minister is there to answer, he is present. But it is not possible to continue discussions about transport plans at the highest level. Ólöf Nordal's Minister of the state is somewhere out in the country, on business for the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u78	A respectable president. It is only in countries that we do not want to compare ourselves with where governments abuse their situation in the process of elections to dissuade the possibility of running a campaign. We're experiencing it right now. Neither the head of the Independence Party nor his vice president fulfills his duties, to be here for the council when their case is scheduled and when there is a pressing need to meet for continuity, but they are on a campaign to land. Meanwhile, other groups that do not sit at the government table need to sit here and discuss with themselves the affairs of the government. I must reiterate the requirements I made today at the highest. President, that he doesn't order any meetings until the government makes it up to him how she wants to conduct the council above. This is a ridiculous act of service to the government and is a serious quest for democracy and equal classes in the consignment of elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u79	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u80	The president would like to reiterate what has been reported, the recent meeting of the heads of the governments with representatives and directors of the administrations of the anti - held parties, including the U.S.A. to try to reach out for the work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u81	A respectable president. How is a president inside to witness and have to participate in this disregard for the council? Government leaders are off to elections, campaign campaigning, campaigning to the country, but the council is to sit here and discuss the main issues of today's transport program in the absence of the highest order. Minister of state. Of course, it's below every inch that the council needs it, and of course we shouldn't. Of course, it is time to interrupt a meeting and not announce a new meeting until it is clear what schedule we are working for. We should not be offered to discuss a road program with the secretary of the trade away. It's not to be offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u82	President. I was very disappointed with the members of the council of my body that at the meeting of the council groups with a president at lunch, no agreement could be made. There is no question about how a work programme will be before this week, and it will not be available until president and vice president of the Independence Party return from their campaign in the country. [[Up front.]] Why on earth wasn't a meeting e.g. Last night? I've been in a meeting many times since I've been in some sort of negotiations at all times of the day, any day, even a meeting at the Simons' or New Year's Day. I find an excuse that a minister has often come up here to answer that he is not sufficient and wants to draw attention to the fact that this program is here in the complete distaste of the memory of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u83	A respectable president. We are gathered here at the council after the work programme is concluded, and we know nothing about the rest. True, the president is a problem, and there is a problem involving the multilingual respect of the Generals. The president noted earlier that there would be an announcement to a meeting with the presidents. I have to say it's the president of one of the government groups that I'm surprised to know, it's news for me, but I welcome it. The officers have been meeting for the past few weeks and months, but sadly nothing has come out of it. But I hope there will be a change. It's very strange to be here in my beloved General for a job that is very dear to me, but it's almost entirely missing the members of the board for the conversation. That must also be a concern for the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u84	Mr. President. It is symbolic of the chaos and mismanagement that has marked the time of the present government's reign, that the subject on this schedule is a four - year schedule in which the administrative body decides how to proceed with transport in 2015 and 2016, two years in real time. Of course, it is very figurative and ironic to think that now the head of the Independence Party is on a campaign trying to explain to the voters in the East that the best group of independent people to control the country, that he is some sort of a fleshy symbol of stability and good government in the face of everything else. We are far beyond the council's work programme. We're talking about years ago, and all you can comfort yourself about, in case the Independence Party would get back into power here, is that there will be no doubt a short term.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u85	A respectable president. I'd like to ask a few detailed questions in an answer obtained earlier when the president explained that the presidents would meet, or at least a suitable representative, to discuss the continuation of the council, but I wondered when. It's been going on for at least a week now that it's been going to happen. But at some point, it is not enough to answer the question, a respectable president, it must be done today. Actually, it would have been the last Monday, but okay, let's just let's just let's make it the Presidency Committee of the Agency, that's how we do it, okay? Today, however, this is a time for doing so. That is why I would like to ask: " When is it scheduled for the head of the classes to meet to discuss the proceedings? ' If there is no information on this, I think it's important that we do too. No news.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u86	That's the answer. The president does not know exactly when this meeting will be, but he is told that it will be very soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u87	A respectable president. I want to reiterate my claim to the highest. A president of the White House that he will meet in this situation. I was chairman of the United States organization after a work programme had gone out of the last election and was on a campaign in the country. The chairman of the council just called me and said, "I won't be invited to a meeting today if the chairman of the United States isn't in town. And that was just the way it was, for it was then the highest. President of the post with the Commission and a majority of the council on behalf of the Generals. I must make the same claim to the President now. It is not acceptable that the chairman of the Independence Party and the vice president of the Independence Party, who represent the program today, be on a campaign in the country; and that the minority groups should be so oppressed by much. The President must protect the council and the smaller parts of the council and the democratic guidelines in the country at such times. That's the basic responsibility of the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u88	V.E.G. President. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. paritaprevir The Árni Páll the son of Árnason. This morning we had a disagreement with the fact that there was a meeting when a work plan has expired and there is no conversation between the leaders of the political parties. V.E.G. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, and the Supreme Court. Minister of the state, vice president of the Independence Party, is in the East. They are not at the Council to try to resolve matters and find out how they can complete this ideal period of standing. No, they're having an election meeting. That is where their priorities lie. That is their responsibility regarding the government of this country. And I still don't understand why we're here while these people are not ready to do their job at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u89	A respectable president. In view of the answer to my question earlier, I also suggest that we skip this meeting until people have been able to talk. I'd like to draw attention to it, though, at most. Ministers are on the east side of the country. This list can be considered, prioritized, and can be spoken of. Such conversations may be unusual, but these are also unusual situations. It is not unusual, however, for us to go over a schedule, it is unusual for us to do so during the longest assembly in history and also for us to do it 15 minutes before elections. It reduces the ability of groups here to participate in the campaign. Democracy suffers. It's serious, and we should take it seriously. We're supposed to wait for this meeting until these people get together to talk. The answer to a respectable president that it will soon be, or however a respectable president expressed it, is not enough. It's supposed to be today. A respectable president. The correct answer is: Today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u90	A respectable president. It is so incredibly insulting for the Generals and for the members of the council here to learn that the chairman of the second Cabinet is on a campaign in the country at the same time as we are supposed to have a meeting here. And the vice president of the Independence Party, the highest. The Minister of the state to attend a discussion on a transport program is also absent so insulting to the council that it is not speaking at all. I wondered how the president himself feels under such circumstances, for the president is supposed to be the president of the council of all things, taking care of the respect of the council, not being trampled on by the filthy shoes. Of course, a meeting, a respectable president, should be delayed and not continued until these Ministers are in place and may attend a discussion here and a schedule is established.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u91	A respectable president. I come up here to take up the demand that the President's every session be met before further notice. V.E.G. The President knows that the work programme that was in force and that has been completed was a concluded agreement between the classes. It's only natural that the party gathers itself for some sort of certainty in their strategy here in the event of an election because people sit at the same table. Now we're out of agreement. Work plan's over. Then new ones need to be made. It's absolutely meaningless, and I think it's the highest. The president knows in his heart that there is absolutely no point in continuing Congress if there is no agreement. One manifestation of how unfair it is to be working here with no agreement, with no certainty, that the presence of the Independence Party has gone on a campaign trip. Who knows anything about the Senate business? Who has the power in their hands when it comes to this? Obviously not the highest. Mr President, but he doesn't sound like he knows anything special about what's to be done here. [[The president calls.]] This may be especially the leader of the board of directors, and it can then organize itself. [[The president calls.]] She can go campaigning. That's not fair. Others know nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u92	A respectable president. For weeks now, the President of the Generalis has claimed to be calling the heads of the political parties to a meeting. Although each week after the next week has passed, the simple event has failed to be met by the leaders of the political parties. Depending on what cases it is that the government wishes to be granted at the council. On account of Iceland's government, it has not been able to answer what matter it needs to be taken care of. Then the program will just continue to be over one plan and out - of - date, and now without the directors of the board being present. A respectable president. Of course, this does not go anywhere. We must ask how a meeting meeting can be conducted while Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, and Secretary of Transport, Ólöf Nordal, who is expected to be here to discuss transport plans, is just somewhere east on the beach for some community in town. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u93	A respectable president. Does a respectable president feel that we are being set up here without a plan and that is within four weeks of election? Does a dignified president view this as a normal and acceptable position? I don't think so. I think it's a total disrespect to the council that a respectable president is going to tolerate it. I just have to say, unfortunately, that I had expected more. I had expected that the council could have a slightly better organization than it did. I encourage a respectable president to use himself to get the board of directors to agree on the issues to be completed and to help remind him of the important issues involved. Are they going to finish it all, or just a few or none? There won't be any cases to deal with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u94	A respectable president. I would like to continue with the absence of the unfairness of this position. There's an election this month, and the council is unsure. The groups are to sit at the same level when it comes to planning campaigns and key groups of these groups, while some are definitely working on some programs. Is it, e.g. The government's plan to take a small election campaign now, but keep all the others here and then come to the council sometime at the end of the week and make a deal, work time? If the directors of the board are working for one of these programs, the highest possible. The president may find out on behalf of the rest of us at the council if we can know about it? Perhaps it is those at that table who can make and keep a plan. The rest of us don't know anything. It's not working. [[The president calls.]] That's incorrigibly. That's not fair. It's unfair and it's the highest. The president is to take the lead in this situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u95	The president has been trying to put it into practice by encouraging the meeting of the committees to achieve it accurately. A senator has rightly been calling for, that we can have some frame around the council for the next few days to complete this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u96	A respectable president. I have great respect for the President, but I can't afford to tell President that what he's saying now about putting his hands on the project, some frame around the projects, and the events ahead of him has been saying for five to six weeks without fail. A respectable president is always saying the same thing to us here. The time has come for us to face the fact that there is no one who can put his arms around this situation other than the Allied Council itself by stopping meetings and setting up what is practical to finish, and what is realistic to pass is only what is at peace. We're past the last day. The Senate's over. The government is full of trust. The commission's gone. We're going to an election. There won't be any cases here except for those in perfect harmony. [[The president calls.]] This is reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u97	You're right next door. A senator who has been trying to use himself to reach out for the work we are awaiting. It happened in a way that created a work plan that the president considered, and the others involved, were quite practical in what we had to do with what we had to do. However, at the beginning of the last week, it became clear that we would not succeed, and we did not measure up to a work schedule, as the president had thought we would, and this in a relatively easy way. Then we will face a new reality. We will need to deal with them in the same way that we were at the time when we were molding the work schedule and trying to match it according to what we thought were ahead. That's exactly what they're doing right now, as the President has done many times. That is why it is true. One senator, in many ways, says that the president's speeches are repeated material because the president faces the exact position he was facing a few weeks ago, thought that they had covered the assignments. And that was our opinion, I suppose, of the presiding committee and of the council groups and of the presidents of the political parties, but it did not work. We will simply have to face that reality and deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u98	Mr. President. That's about it. six months since they stood, becoming the highest. Prime Minister and current highest. Secretary of finance, saying big business was over. During the months that have passed since the beginning of April until today, October 3, these men have failed to tell us what subjects they had in mind. I can say the highest. A president, and he's just resolved here, that he should just do that with the council members. The procurator of the Independence Party is in a meeting now in an hour and a half. He'll be at Ness shop at 9:00 tonight. [[Up front.]] The home page of the Independence Party does not have its program ahead of time, so we do not know any more. [[The president calls.]] However, in view of the fact that for six months a minister has not been able to pay off and speak as a man at the opposition stand, I suggest that the president solve the matter with members of the council who, unlike the executives of the administrations, be at work. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u99	A respectable president. It's true what you're saying in the case of the highest order. The president that the assumptions made last week have not been fulfilled, and people have to cope with new realities. That's right. Then people need to sit down and decide how they do it. It would not be logical to decide to go east, to leave the council here in uncertainty and chaos, and to conclude that somehow it will save itself, to go on a campaign trip, and to think that it will only be ignored, and that it will lead to a good fall in this place. This is exactly the same carelessness and release in the way that has marked the entire reign of present governments. Even though it's the highest. The president says that he has been putting himself to work for landing in the case. Clearly, he needs to be more effective. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u100	A respectable president. I'm stressing that the president of this assembly is culminating where we can't do any further with the day's work until all the heads of the team face reality, all classes. I realize that the President is at the U.S. Congress. Financial and economic ministers, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, but this does not change the fact that there is an intolerable way to present political reality and the General Assembly to the minister of finance and economics, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, is off the country. That makes it the highest. The minister and chairman of the Independence Party are giving shit in the General. That's the way it is. It is no less an tolerated, respectable president, but that we stop this meeting, allow no disrespect for the General in this way, and the next meeting to be held here at the House will be a meeting, not with the council meeting, but with the officers of the clans when men face their responsibilities here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The president here for explaining how he's been trying to reach the council for the past few weeks. As far as it goes, because I don't think anyone who's been missing the discussions either today or last week is missing from the council presidents of the government when it comes to completing this council. I don't know that there is anything in the presidents' groups of the government opposition in this case. It's all about what's happening. Parliamentary presidents and chairmans of the administrations. That's why it's going to be the highest. Mr. President, to face the fact that they need to be put under pressure. This will only be done by postponing a meeting and not holding a meeting here in this room until these issues are resolved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u102	Mr. President. I've asked you a question to the highest level. Foreign Minister covering the exodus of Icelandic prisoners in foreign prisons. Of course, the occasion is the fact that from time to time, there are sad cases in which Icelandic youths become aware of the need to smuggle drugs in distant lands and, as a result, sometimes for years under frightening circumstances, to prisons that are often overwhelming, where their human rights are trampled and that all their equipment is terrible, and their destiny often becomes terrible. Granted, many might say that wrongdoers are to be punished. While it is true, these matters are usually far more complex and sad than on the surface. All of us have responsibilities toward all the subjects of the Kingdom. We also need to guard the rights of prisoners, and especially those judged to be punished in miserable circumstances. The police, both at home and also at Europol, can confirm that a large proportion of those in the situation of becoming carriers are usually young girls. Often, they have no criminal record, but they have become involved in drug abuse; they owe doctors because of their consumption; and they are forced to pay the debt by bringing food from country to country, with threats, sometimes beatings. Most of the time, they are lied about quantity, and at times they do not even know that they are carrying drugs. They are victims of abuse. They may be party to a crime, but they are definitely victims themselves. People in this position need to be helped. This will be best done by getting them to their country of origin to be punished and after the events of mild punishment in the event of a very obvious abuse, such as the above. This is the international police authorities getting a divorce. They're acting accordingly. It is very important to emphasize, too, that in cases where the abuse is practiced, the individual will never commit more crimes in his life, which in itself stress that it is not a criminal or a profit - gain hope but a misuse that led to the crime and at the same time that the girls are victims. This request is submitted for a specific reason. Recently, an Icelandic girl was taken in Brazil and has been judged. This suggests that she was a victim rather than a criminal. That's why I want to settle this matter in this way. I'm asking the highest. Minister if a deed from Brazil can be established in Iceland without a special trade agreement made before. Second: Does such a contract exist? If not, is it intended to be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a helpful, humanitarian inquiry on issues and the conduct of Icelandic prisoners. Regarding the first request, it should be noted that, in spite of the absence of a penalties, certain legal conditions are filled up with international cooperation with full penalties. However, this is always subject to the agreement of both states, and the decision to apply that law is in the hands of an internal minister, who is taking the transfer of convicted men to the President's decision to switch government issues between councils in Iceland's Management Board. In terms of whether the State Department has established a contract between Iceland and Brazil regarding the publication of Icelandic prisoners it is that in May 2012 the previous government agreed that the Foreign Minister should prepare contracts for the transfer of convicted and the full punishment. Special emphasis was placed on a state where the human rights of Icelandic prisoners would not be guaranteed. Iceland has made no such two- sided agreement, but the 1983 European Parliament on the transport of prisoners is within the EU; 21 countries are involved, but Brazil is not among them, and none of the Northern countries have made such a deal with Brazil. The budget cannot be made without consultation with the Minister of Internal Affairs, which handles the affairs of prisoners and transports judges; however, such agreements with Brazil are under way. I have some expectations, though, that the progress will be fairly clear and secure.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u104	A respectable president. Just a quick comment, even though I'm not going to shadow it. A senator or a chief. Minister, end their question. But I find it important in this discussion to mention two vices that plague both our community and our community in Brazil; much less, though, we do. It is, on the one hand, the view of drugs or drugs and the general happiness of punishment. It is popular to want to punish people, it is popular here, and it is popular elsewhere; yet not popular; nor should we thank them. We should be grateful, though, that there is a general effort to emphasize reproof rather than punishment. However, the requirement always comes up to punish as hard as possible when unpopular people are judged, no matter where the offense is almost broken. For the war of drugs - it is war, not here, but we are here to learn our lessons and to reduce the ills these two are, the punishment and the drug war; although it is not so blessed to be here and in many other places. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u105	A respectable president. I welcome this inquiry. paritaprevir Acquires Össur's Skarphéðinsson to the minister of the state. I believe this is a very important discussion, and it involves matters of righteousness that affect all of us when it is discussed in the field of the day, as it were. Of course, in this relationship, it is of utmost importance that we maintain the change that has taken place in general in the West, not just here in Iceland, as to what is involved in prison. Happily, in Iceland, the ideologies of punishment, which are also part of the debate we are going to do when we discuss these matters in our dealings with others, whether with Brazil or other countries, are a ideologies that are also part of the debate that we are going to promote there; it does not result from the roots that have been established in many places.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u106	A respectable president. I want to thank you both. The manager has a good query and maximum. Minister for the answer, to the top. Ministers to use this material on a global level, and especially if expeditation agreements are not available against countries where Icelandic citizens can be imprisoned. We have many here at this hall spoke of the changes in the focus of criminalism, more looking at corrections, and a new development in prison affairs. We have also talked about risking the emphasis on the crime of the addiction industry, so to speak, and dealing with addicts in trouble with the resources that the addicts deserve in trouble, i.e. viewing their addiction and the problem it creates rather than viewing addiction as a crime. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. The foreman for taking up this case and the minister for the answers. I think it's extremely important that the Ministry cooperates with this project, the State Department and State Department of State, to negotiate with Brazil in this case of these times. It will not be overlooked that the victims of these cases are often and only women, especially young women, who, most of all, are the heads of the crime in which they are linked or victimized and have to serve as a result. I encourage the Minister to continue this work and to complete these contracts as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u108	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by thanking my party brother. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aussie, for this inquiry, and for the joy of being involved in a forward-and-instruction contract in Brazil. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was well - versed in the case of animals of burden. It is not because people who take that role on average are worse than the rest of us. Rather, it is a terrible situation and the use of power and oppression and a serious addiction that leads people into it. We are also caught up in the drug - free Iceland policy, which in itself is a very good idea, but it led us to the error of harden the decision of drugs rather than to view addiction as a serious illness and come to form animals like that. [[The president calls.]] The princes are then a completely different issue, but they are rarely beaten by this ideologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u109	V.E.G. President. Like everybody else, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer for this inquiry as well as the highest. Minister for the answer. I'd like to agree with those who have in this context particularly affected animals; all the true and true things that have been said about the fact that there are often violent and oppressive people who have very little choice in their circumstances. But I would also like to agree with those who have brought the matter into greater context when it comes to looking at prison matters in the light of the fact that it is supposed to be about reform. I believe, though, that we as a nation have gone further than many others, even though we have to go far beyond that. That's why it's important to create the highest form. So a minister and others in that situation speak a case, a trial, when it comes to talking about prison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u110	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for his inquiry, which I think is very important. As noted in his case, there are often weak people and victims of far bigger and more dangerous people than those in prisons, Icelanders in foreign prisons. Because we've just accepted psychiatric conference here at the council, it's probably a matter to consider in this context. If not, drug abuse is often the result of mental illness. So I think it is very important that Icelandic prisoners from abroad get home and enjoy the best mental - health care we can give them at one time. That's very important, and we support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u111	Mr. President. I couldn't get in touch, and I'm out of the game, thank you very much. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer for this inquiry, a member of the 15 to520 members of the council he has done so. He's moving in on a serious matter. I think that we all feel similarly when news comes from unfortunate youths who are either more and less innocent or who have gone astray in their lives, are experiencing heavy prison sentences abroad, where equipment is well beneath what we consider acceptable. However, if we Icelanders for a long time and even more, we could do better living well with prisoners here making judgments. I strongly support the efforts to secure it by contracts and by any other means that whenever circumstances recommend it, such persons are tried to get back and work on their affairs here. I feel that it should be part of a citizen's national rights to be supported by society at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u112	A respectable president. Here is a more urgent discussion, a human rights and a human speech speech. What I'm curious about is this: Of course, it's good to know that the contracts of the exodus and transport of Icelandic prisoners in Brazil are planned. It's important that people are taken from unacceptable situations where prisons are different from here. But it would also be interesting to hear in this discussion how the Icelanders are equipped to do this. There's a considerable number of Icelandic prisoners abroad that might apply to, people we wanted to take home. How is the U.S. prison authorities equipped to take over prisoners in this situation? Is it to be expected that we will be ready and have a valid situation to accept Icelandic prisoners if this is a considerable number of people like me I think I've seen on paper? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u113	Mr. President. I am very pleased that following this inquiry, the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has consulted with the State Department to make the necessary agreement so that, in the circumstances offered, they can request a donation of Icelandic prisoners from foreign prisons; and in this case, in Brazil. There's the world's most famous prisons, and among them is the worst. I want to challenge the highest, too. Minister to use all the power of foreign service to get the girl involved in this matter of undeserved kindness. I myself know from experience that foreign service has great power in these matters. In my time at the Ministry, where prisoners were suspected unsupervised, and, at least, at least In the second instance, that even the police in that country had been involved themselves, we sent an ambassador who lived there until they were able to release the subject and return to Iceland, in two cases. I also recall that a similar situation arose with Icelandic girls in the Czech Republic, who I know no better than to be now, by means of foreign service, on their way home, or back home for punishment. It is important to realize that most young girls, often babies, who have been affected, have become victimized and victimized by criminals. They are a result of abuse. The police I've talked to, both at home and also at Europol, agree that the best in such a position is, first of all, that a local police officer is to speak to the relevant person immediately because it often leads to a great and much better information about scalps, but secondly, it results in an agreement to soften the punishment and allowment of home loans. In these cases, life and death are often involved, and we are to be concerned with the human rights of all, especially in prisoners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. Parliaments for helpful and important discussions on this group of subjects. I think it is very important in this situation that the circumstances of these prisoners are acceptable and their human rights are guaranteed. That's why we really do this thing, I'd say, in foreign service. Although we cannot discuss individuals here in the council's speakership, I can assure you that much time and energy have gone into these matters. For asking why. 5th a.m. Witchest. "To see if prisons are prepared for this, it's the work being done right now, the cooperation between the State Department and the State Department. We also need to be ready at home for such negotiations. I'd also like to reiterate that there is a possibility that this shift could be done under existing contracts, but we do believe that there is a possibility that there will be a need for speed for these exchanges to be made on the loan agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u115	A respectable president. Now it has been announced that the chairman and vice president of the Independence Party are on a campaign trip east of the country, but here is a meeting meeting and one of these men is under the order of the administration to answer for matters that are planned today. According to 65 st. The law of Congress is an obligation for members of the council to attend a assembly meeting, except the need for bans. And the president decides if there is a need. I'd like to ask the president: Has he ever investigated the need for the chairman of the Independence Party and the Deputy Director of the Independence Party to be on a campaign at the same time when a campaign of elections has not begun? These groups have not taken steps to complete matters here at the council in order to give all classes the opportunity to enter a campaign so that equality is under control. Has the president determined the need? If he hasn't, I demand him to do it without delay and then follow the example of an ex - President, Ásta Ragnhe of the daughter Ragnheiður Jóhannesdóttir, who did not hold a meeting while I was on the campaign as chairman of the United States. I demand that this example be followed and that the president defend the right of my part of the council now as he did then.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u116	Mr. President. It seems this is the plan, now that we're past the extended work programme, to keep meetings exclusively to the smaller section of the council. This is where the less part has to do with Congress. You can't see what's going on. Councilmen and the highest. Minister of the Board of Governments, and I'll allow myself to join in. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll the son of Árnason, who quoted examples from before the last election when meetings were canceled when officials of the administrations could not attend a meeting. Why are we having a meeting here? In order for the less part to uphold the honour of the council? Of course, it's not acceptable, Mr. President, it's not okay to continue days and weeks until elections. We began our service here in August with half an hour of meetings, which, of course, were of no value to anyone when we should have been working on it. And now it continues beyond the extended work schedule. The members of the administration will not be seen. That's not okay, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u117	A respectable president. The lesser part or position has made great progress during the past few months in order to restore the respect of the General Assembly in the past political opposition during the last term when there was a debate, scientific tricks, absentness, and all kinds of language and conduct that were seriously reduced by the Honour of the World Council. The present political opposition has really contributed, even though it may not have been heard to restore the respect of the Generals, it was done by means of objective work and good work. However, it may now be strongly asked that this government opposition will hold the council to work in the absence of the administrative element. Then the present position of government is well expected. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's annual Árnason, are now being held in the courts of Congress and in respect of 65 st. Parliamentary law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u118	A respectable president. We have provided a program that makes it possible for the day's program, which, of course, cannot go on as it has been presented. There's a lot of need here on the program, a transport plan. It's been a record of Iceland's failure during this season, unfortunately, not only in new constructions but also in maintenance, which has become so lacking that holes are mainly characteristic of the country's road system. How important it is to take that discussion and go through the adjustments made from both parts and parts of it. Of course, it is not possible to do so, a respectable president, that the minister of the seminary, Olöfu Nordal, is absent from the area that is now on the east side of the Independence Party. I trust the President will take the initiative here and cancel these plans and continue the discussion until tomorrow, when a minister can be sure of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u119	A respectable president. Sometimes something comes up that needs to be treated quickly. Sometimes it is serious, and sometimes it is important. Then they shoot off when people act like they're not. The ultimate fact. A minister is out in the country now, despite a clear and serious demand for him to be here to complete the Senate work, I feel that this is an example. When it's really stressful and everyone is trying to finish some project, it's not comfortable that one or two people just sit and watch TV while they're at it. I don't think it's going anywhere. Ministers don't make this matter when it is important for members of the Parliament to take part at the General and all other members of Congress to get into a campaign at the same time as the government's greater part. As long as this is so, you can only conclude that there is a particular abuse of the Council. [[The president calls.]] You can't reason otherwise; you corrected me, whoever can better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u120	Mr. President. V.E.G. President is pity. The board leaders, at least The Independence Party, draught like clay out of its grasp. They are fleeing the reality of us. They're in Ness trade, in emergency custody, and in political conferences. Of course, I resented this as a senator. I don't think it's absurd that the leading members of the board at this time are not coming to the council. Especially is it absurd when considering the highest. Today, the president said that a program on the smells of Congress could not be submitted because a conversation between presidents was not reached. It has already not been achieved because the chairman and vice president of the Independence Party are on the campaign for the duration of the council. As we have noted, this is a violation of Congress, and it has also been emphasized in the way the president of the Council has dealt with it. This was done during the last term when one of the presidents of a political party was directly organized and told that a meeting would be held unless he arrived, would be offered 65 C.E. Make him a connoisseur. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u121	A respectable president. I happen to be one of the three members of a council that has members of the Northern Republic of Reykjavík, the district of Reykjavík, and the southwestern district. We have no senators in the Southern District, the Northeast District, and the Northwestern District. Some think that this means that we simply have less to do. It's not like that. We also need to take care of our political obligations in the country, and people want to meet members of the council. They want to know why they have done or said this. They want to make suggestions. They want to ask. There are some things the voter, the respectable president, wants to tell us, ask us, etc. It's really hard to get to the top. Ministers are out in the country in a campaign campaign because, of course, we also want to be in a campaign to make our party. It doesn't work that the government will misuse the General so that it will leave it here and go into campaigning itself. It is not in any way fair to the council or to the voter. This isn't working. It's got to stop. We're not supposed to hold a meeting here until people can get to town and talk about how they're looking at the end of this council so that the classes can have something to do with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u122	A respectable president. I must agree with what has been tore up here by a number of people, i.e. the equal talk of the party to get into the campaign and to have the conversation with the voters, who are also obliging elected agents in the leading of elections, an important duty. Of course, there is no fairness, and there is no fairness in the fact that the judges are taking leave and power to speak to voters, to take a campaign tour, and to attend meetings with voters, while representatives of other classes are supposed to be here to work in the interests of the General Assembly, work that, in addition to the complete counsellines, should be defined as the lack of organization now ruling in the council, where there is no plan, and there are no discussions between the leading parties and members of the council where it should continue. This, of course, does not mean anything, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u123	Mr. President. This is so, or should be, the case. It tells itself that we cannot be offered here in unsupervised inquiry, or the Minister of Internal Affairs here to follow his transport plan afterwards, but it is expected that the rest of us would cancel our elections, proclaim meetings, or meet our voters, in order to carry out our affairs. It can't go on like this. One thing is going to happen to everyone, unless an internal minister is studying the situation on the road system, I would be more sorry if she was driving to the city's desert or crossing the Breckleshill, where people probably have to take out the yellow paint to paint the rock that goes up the road as they used to. I guess not. They're meeting to try to collect votes while the rest of us are supposed to be here at the council. I don't think there's any more to discuss, Mr. President. No meetings here until the officers of the classes have met, have something on it, and just don't have a schedule for us to have this offer. We must have more ambition for the council and for ourselves than for letting it work this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u124	V.E.G. President. I come up here to join them. Councilmen who have come here to complain about this conference board and what the situation of the council today is. It is really amazing that we are standing in this situation today, for one of the first things we received as members of the 2013 New Parliament was the General President's report of distrust at the General Assembly, why so much distrust existed in the community toward the General Assembly. Among other things, it was found that there was a craziness and lack of policy at the General Assembly, as well as mismanagement and disorder, division, and lack of cooperation. It was strongly emphasized when we set out for this terms, that we should try to fix this and work together to increase the respect of the Generals. We stand here today, members of the panels of minorities at the council, talking about the President's conference board because the administrative body shows complete disrespect for the council; and it is not just showing disrespect to the council but also to the public in the country. It has to be over. I challenge the highest. Now we're gonna use the hammer, and we're gonna hit the table really good, and we're gonna say, "Here and no more." [[The president calls.]] It's got to stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-03-161.u125	The President has received the following program proposal, dated October 3, 2016: We signed it, in accordance with 1 mgr. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st Nature protection, etc., 87th matter, Whoosh. 87. ▪ 2nd. 2. Basic schools, etc., 104s cases, parss. 104. ▪ 2nd. 3. birth and parent'sor, etc., 261st. 288. ▪ 2nd. 4. Government and law-enforcement paper, etc., 237th case, parley. 257. ▪ 2nd. 5. National park in the middle of the country, sweet boy. It's a 10th story, sis. 10. ▪ A second round. 6th An elderly agent's office, a sorcerer. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under these publications. 9th. Smoke. So, Hjörvar, what? 5th a.m. Smoke. s., Sgiís Svavarsdóttir, why. Tenth. That's the north side. "Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's daughter, and why. Tenth. Smoke. So, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir.
