ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u1	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, social and housing minister, and marine economist and agricultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u2	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. Prime Minister on the situation of tourism, which has long ceased to be the subject of an individual minister, but is beginning to be a serious problem in the whole country. The number of tourists in January was as great as it was in June 2012. The government has completely screwed up how to deal with this increase and screw up the pay of tourists all this time. It's impossible for 330 of you. The people of their tax work, they can build through wood that can be enough for 400st. man at any given time. It will place unbearable burdens on us and will deal with our health care and other benefits of our well - being. Visitors must be paid to build wood by themselves. People are in danger of falls. People are in grave danger. There has been human harm in Silfra and in the Sunworld. We watch the stage. People are in danger when they drive the Elf. Yet, this government stands for Iceland's revenue in transport failure. There's no new money on law enforcement. The Minister of the Interior has often been asked about this. Nothing's coming. There is no new money in health care. According to the South National Institute of Health, hospital transport has increased by 100% since 2012 and medical flight by 30%. There's no new money in it. A respectable president. How will the government react to this situation? This has become a very serious matter. Inns don't do it. People are in danger, and the fees of tourists must be paid for themselves. We are now dealing with the consequences that the government groups fought like lions against any idea of hosting fees during their last term and were able to prevent it from being enough to survive a real investment. It is no longer about a single footpath, a respectable Prime Minister, a matter of national security and the infrastructure they live in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u3	A respectable president. I'm impressed. Rather, a senator takes a long time to paint a negative picture of the large number of tourists we've seen in recent years. You're right. A senator noted, the increase has been tremendous, including the increase. Because tax measures were avoided as the last government proclaimed that had been designed to scare people away, as some have. The former members of the Conspiracy may later admit that they had been mistaken, intended to go to that currency, since the best - known members of this article had pointed out that this would have been the most effective way to reverse the trend that had begun and have continued at great speed, the growing number of tourists to Iceland. Of course, this calls for infrastructure, and it has to be financed. However, the growth has been so fast that even the funds available in the infrastructure have not been used as fast as the government has granted it. When tourists increase as much as they can. A senator pointed out that they became as many in January right now as in June 2012, if I heard correctly, says it itself, a respectable president, that people need time for travel services and rural communities all over the country as those who care for the tourist attractions to react to it. It hasn't been on the government. Although they may be suggestions. A senator referred to and to the highest. Investigated industrial minister has not fallen into disrepute at any time. In the meantime, men have had other ways to get funding, those who have been willing to use it. When this growth is tremendously rapid, it is only natural that it takes time to build a system that can keep up with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u4	A respectable president. There is no answer to the question: How should this urgent need be met? How should life - threatening situations be avoided? Where to take the money to build new roads to meet this growing tourist population? Because of the general tax continue? Then there will be less provision for health care and other valuable assignments for the country. [[Up front.]] The road system has to be built. Police must be assured at these most dangerous tourist sites. There's no money left in it right now from the government box. That's the biggest question of all. Minister is asked. There's nothing to sit next to and talk about because there's no fees on the article. It is a problem that tourists do not come to the country to meet the costs of building wood. It is impossible to put people in danger of driving around this country, offering that we need to cut off the available health services in the country in order to provide tourists with services that they should, of course, pay special for ourselves, i.e. the service they accept here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u5	A respectable president. I don't understand the emotion of it. Senator. It is as if he believes that the land is under siege by tourists, and these people are threatened wherever they come. You're right. A senator points out, of course, the huge number of people must be built up to receive. That structure is ongoing. Money has been provided by the state in that structure, but the same has to be done, of course, by a travel agency as the rural community, everyone has to adapt to this massive increase of tourists, who are already making huge money to the state, and this seems to be a problem. A senator has completely overlooked, and as a result, we have more money to play, as it were. A senator knows. [[Up front.]] He claims that there are no new legal agencies and no new money on health matters. Does the senator think that he can persuade some to believe this when it is evident that he has just studied key lines that the rise in the rate of health care has rarely been greater? [[The president calls.]] There was a huge increase in law-enforcement contributions over the past year, and we see continued growth now, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to direct my inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of health. It's about the issues, i.e. the restoration of the health system. As a minister is well aware, there is a collection of signatures, reported to have become one of the largest, if not the largest in Iceland, that has been taught by Kári Stefánsson. The requirement for this signing is a progressive restoration of the health system with the goal of spending 11% of the country's production. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister. I couldn't hear his words any better by the weekend, but that he was basically agreeing that the health system was doing, what we should say, leaking down, that it was getting away from it. There may be some big words, but at least it did not build up in the way we would like it to. It's the highest. Do not Ministers agree that it is time to keep that word, starting a specific job in preparing how to restore the health - care system? In that context, there's another question I'm going to address. Ministers must be careful whether there is a specific need to demonstrate a willingness to act vigorously and to follow Generalis's decision to rebuild and begin vigorously in the rebuilding of a new land hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I have said that what is most urgent today is the funding of elderly nursing homes, health care, and medical expenses. These are the three main factors that I find most determined to wear and to beat only the failings that have come there. I emphasized my will on the budget for the past two financial years. Hv. A senator refers to the progress of the telethon. I have looked to her in a way that reflects the will of the people and the public in this country to keep the health system in their own best condition. I think that's an underlying part of that. I'm just lying in the middle of a percentage of something inexplicable. It doesn't matter. The will is very strong and rich. For what they ask about rebuilding the National Hospital, we're working it as fast as we possibly can. There's a port at a hospital hotel. Treatment systems are currently designed. The task was simply done only at the time, and we have been putting up with the money that enables us to work according to the strategy that the hospital will be completely reinvented about 2022/203.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I read not only the rich but also that the public does not see the cards well or that people do not believe in what they see. Although there has been an increase in money received by the health - care system, it has been only to meet the rising cost of pay. I would like to encourage the minister to start his work and preferably work on the transnational field to plan for the restoration of the health system in the way of the nation's will and that it sounds like the highest order. Minister. I'd like to say in this chair that we are not involved in the bright future of sharing in that work. We count it with the most important thing we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u9	A respectable president. I agree with that, of course, we must do better, and we can do better. Yet, even though we all want to work harder and do better than we do today, we must not overlook what is done well. Just over a year ago, the basic requirement for government government management was to improve the cost and benefit of health care professionals. It's been made handsome. We compete with neighboring nations in that regard. Granted, there are other areas that we can do better and that are being accomplished. The contributions we have made to health care have not been in vain. I give specific examples that we can see in both Hospitals and Health Organizations where innovation is being implemented, etc. But it does not change the fact that the system as it is has to work better than it does. They are willing to make changes and to make longer policies. This work is done, and I expect and hope to introduce it in the spring months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u10	President. It's been a long time, so I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister when the bill of bail removal will appear at a council he promised for the last election. Is possible to the highest. The prime minister is unable to find peace with the development of the case in the government? President. I'd also like to take this opportunity and correct the highest. The prime minister, but some false records have become familiar with his talks, since he has brought into question the mismanagement of Porta's policies on civilian pay. The fact is that Piratars have not developed a Civil Prize policy but, rather, the Prosecutor Porta has proposed a synopsis in which a team is requested to be appointed to map out avenues that ensure all citizens of the country's land have an unprovable framework. No figures are mentioned in that suggestion, so I would like to ask the highest. A minister from where he received the statistics that he built his fears on in a conversation at a business assembly. Then it's worth giving the highest point. One purpose is to replace disability, unemployment, pension, loans, loans to pay, birthdays, interest, child - making, and other benefits that help people to gain life. Piranians would like to obtain the necessary information from their strategy so that informed planning for civilian pay can be initiated if it is possible to start such a course. Unlike the category of prime minister, Piratars do not want to be successful with promises that cannot be obtained, as was the case with many matters that for a short time strengthened his band to get him into position as high as possible. Minister is today. For the highest-level information. Prime Minister, I would like to quote an article that discusses the civil pay that Þórður Júlíusson, editor of the Nautilus, writes today by permission of the president. I'm going to review that reference in the latter part of my inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u11	Dignified. President. When you thought that the Piranha had finally come up with something to explain course or policy, the day will come when it is not. [[Up front.]] It's not policy. This is for inspection. [[Up front.]] They want to see if this might be good, so we're still waiting for the first European policy, a respectable president, to see if it's an election or not. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator does not even intend to recognize the case himself. She insists on doing so. Porta's deputy transferred it. Moved him. A senator does not have a problem. A deputy? Is that a misunderstanding? And then we're pointing up a little bit of a problem. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir says that there is probably overassessment at the expense, since it should replace the various combustions, benefits, pensions, etc. and ask how you can get it to the point that there's always 300 of you. K. Yes, a respectable president. It is clear that the Piratars have been reluctant to claim that everyone should have at least 300 of you. K. So if they're preaching that this is a substitute for all the benefits, any other government payment, this must be at least 300 of you. K. I have never claimed that there could be no more of what they were going to put into this. But it must be that they're going to put at least 300 up. K. ... youunlessthey're disappearing from what you thought was the policy of Pirata, that everyone has the right to 300 you. K., pensioners, cripples, others.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u12	It's heartbreaking to listen to the silence out of your mouth. Prime Minister. I just have to say right now. I'm going to refer, by permission of the president, in an article by the editor of the reactor: ▪ The main argument for a citizen's pay is that increased self - efficiency and technological progress may cause up to half of the work to disappear. The most hazardous jobs are small jobs that require little knowledge. Somehow, it must be people who today do these work to survive the end of the job. Thus, 20 Dutch communities are studying the preference of a simpler urban pay system. The government in Finland is doing the same thing that in Switzerland will choose the case in June. Both right and left men around the world have supported the idea of civilian pay. Left men say that they will reduce unemployment because of mechanical damage in manufacturing fields and right persons have pointed out that the way of the simple welfare system is vast. How's it going, by the way? Prime Minister to Undeterred and Unsolved? By the way, how is it going to solve the nation's emergency and urgent housing problems? That's what we're going to do. Social Affairs will pass through if there is no agreement in the government groups on ways to manage emergency problems? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Keep the promises that went on. Minister in office? Isn't that a responsible factor, the highest? Prime Minister, stop letting the trouble pile up and the problem deepen and do something about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u13	A respectable president. As we know, the solution to the problem is brilliant, and the facilities are in good condition, as is the case. A senator also knows, in cooperation with the workforce and is being discussed at the council. [[Up front.]] However, the ability to hear it is odd. To explain the meaning of the pyramids, an editor needs to read an editorial on a Web site. Thus, there is no explanation for what they mean for themselves, but some editor's tip is in the town to explain what they may be trying to mean by these suggestions. It is also true. A senator noted that both the right and the left have spoken to ideas about civilian pay or something similar. But in both cases they are entirely on the edge; the fanaticalists on the right side or the extremes on the left side, for, of course, this political ring is met in one point where extreme right men and extremes of the left come together, which are completely unrealistic, such as the other. A senator should be able to comment without starting the requested investigation. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u14	When, then, are you going to cancel your insurance policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u15	Mr. President. As a member of the welfare committee, I would like to ask the highest level. Prime Minister, on behalf of the entire government, to see if we are expected to respond to the nation's plea for increased medical contributions. It is now informed that in the third century C.E., signatures over 75 thousand were signed, making this the most significant signature or challenge in the history of the republic and the signing of signatures against Britain's terrorist laws and the transport of the North American Airport from the Watermur. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: First of all. Has his government discussed this plea from the nation regarding increased money for health care? Second of all. Are You Expecting a Response? Then I am referring, not to writings, but to the material response to this cry. Will the government in any way respond materially to this? Show at least tens of thousands of people the respect that they will respond materially. Is it, then, a matter of taking up this year's budget and providing financial support for health care? Or would the next year have to wait for the release, and then a year? In addition to this strong calls from the people, the news goes on to us during these days, saying that conditions in the Land Hospital have even begun to rain the floors in the garage so that they can put patients there in the exhausted hospital. The influenza epidemic is on hand, and there are reports of patients being brought with a flow of disease from one side to another in order to get them out of the Land Hospital and ready for action, even in the settlements of those to whom they live. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Prime Minister, what news of these matters is being received at the highest level. Government?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u16	A respectable president. It is news of health issues that this government has continued to set priorities for health care and major contributions to that number, especially this year with an estimated 19 billion dollars. An additional or more than 10% increase between years. I don't know when people last saw such an increase in donations for health care in this country, and I don't know which country in Europe is raising donations to this category as much as I do in Iceland today. Indeed, priorities are being set in behalf of the seminary. It is heartwarming that there seems to be such a good social agreement, that it should be added to this case, which, as a result, was badly starving during the last term when the priority for the bank, the financial system, is not in the interest of homes, including the health system. This, of course, takes time to work. About 30 billion bucks. medical surgery during the last term. Of course it does. Of course, the process of improving is effective. But then we better keep on doing the same thing, continue to add as much to our health as we have been doing in all things, and are happy to feel the public's support for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u17	Mr. President. I think those patients who lie in the tunnel, or even become ill with military sickness on the banks of the country these days, are of little comfort in calculator practice at the highest level. Prime Minister. Just so that, and whatever the chairman of the United States states, health issues were spared beyond any other set of cases at the end of the last term when it came to maintenance. The landlord thought he needed, if I recall correctly, 2.5 billion more than what was on the budget bill. What for? To keep seawater. He got a billion. It's a priority. The numbers speak for themselves, chief. President, and reality is as it is in the medical system, however far back as possible. Prime Minister wants to go to make himself look better than anyone else. It was difficult in the years following a collapse. It was true, and it had to be very difficult. But for one thing, because it was done, we are in a much better position to do better, and that is what the people are calling for. How about now, top dog? Prime Minister, try once to discuss matters with the government here at the council instead of always turning around? [[The president calls.]] Will the government respond to this plea? Is there an increase in health care funds this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u18	A respectable president. I just heard. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is calling for a more objective discussion? In fact, he went on to scream at the problem, scream some statements that unfortunately do not agree. The answer to a question why. There's a senator. I told her earlier. The government has been making large contributions to health care, and it will continue to do so. The answer is yet to come, a respectable president. In fact, more than a billion dollars were made likely to save the Land Hospital for 3 billion. This allowed the hospital to move people from expensive divisions to other areas, thereby bringing these more expensive structures into other areas. That saved the hospital 21⁄23 billion. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is to allow himself to rejoice over the reversal that has taken place since his government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u19	A respectable president. I'm going to talk to you for 75 minutes. Icelanders to the government on the restoration of the health system It was interesting to hear the highest. Just as 19 billion had been added to the health system this year. It is quite interesting, for example, to put it in context with the bonus, who of today's payoff? Well, I guess that's a hundred and twenty-five billion, so people will know what numbers we're talking about. The amount of money that is being spent here will not do much more than pay and compensation this year, and mostly because of collective agreements made by the government itself. There is virtually no new activity. But the highest. However, in his earlier talk, a health minister mentioned that he saw the need to do some relief, especially because of the nursing homes in the country that have been described as a medical emergency for those who know, for health care and for medical costs. It's not new, it's familiar with the S-labelled medicinal products and patient ketans that have been involved in the population due to their distribution in the past year. It is, of course, a situation that is totally unacceptable at a time when we are rising from economic lows into economic recovery and human benefits, that the priorities should be such that there is a medical emergency in Iceland, the cornerstone of the welfare system. That's why I want to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: How will he deal with the factors he specifically specified, i.e. The building of nursing homes, health care, and medical expenses, in the current year? [[The president calls.]] How to respond to the 75-point caller. Icelanders?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I believe that the appeal of the group involved in the telethon involves more than a nursing home, medical procedures, and health care. I think it's all covered up in all aspects of our global and important system of health care. It is asked how to meet these things; therefore cry out, and the three shows as far as they are concerned. A senator asks here. Regarding health care, the budget for our budgets for three new clinics this year, in the capital area. That assignment has been a long time in progress and will be expected and will hopefully be introduced this week. Similarly, looking at nursing homes, there are three new nursing homes that will be negotiated this year, starting up their construction or preparation, two in the capital area, and one in the South. Similarly, a new nursing home is being used in Seltananes, whose origin is known as the rented route. About the third show as big as any. A senator asks about, i.e. the medicines, such that Icelanders are in the first place in bringing in new medicines for hepatitis C, so something is being worked on in which all those infected with it are offered that medication. In addition, money is added to the induction of new drugs up to 100 million. A. K., who may not be exaggerating a large sum of money in the big context, and certainly we might be able to improve the quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u21	A respectable president. When 75 hors d'you. Iceland calls for improvements in health care, and signing expresses a lack of neglect in the health system, which requires that many factors be backed up by governments. Then one would also expect that a minister would not allow the council to be slacked to a timelined and realistic strategy for improvement in such rulers and delicate matters. How is the government going to face this plea? Where should financial resources come from when it is evident that the funds spent on the subject of this year will not be sufficient? Will the government reevaluate their income plans in order to finance the health system, or will it be aimed at solving matters with further privatization? It is now taking large discounts on hunting costs and extravasation taxes. [[The president calls.]] Is it possible to revise their plans? It is absolutely clear that, based on a simple income plan, we do not focus on the restoration of our health system this year, although representatives of the government allow themselves to refer to the 2016 budget in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u22	A respectable president. I believe that the flaws that are certainly in the Icelandic health system, and many know that they will not be eliminated in a single heartbeat or with one hand swing or in one year. It's a longer time job. As I've said many times, and the whole body of Congress realizes, it's a complex, elaborate system, and it just takes a long time to make changes and react. In addition to the three fine matters I mentioned earlier, I would like to mention what has already been started, which is designed to shorten a waiting list in the Icelandic Health Organization. There are some areas that are fine; others are slow to get started, but there was a great deal of money in both working down the waiting list and taking on the so - called efflux problem from the Land Hospital. They work with us, and there's no reason to draw feathers over their ability to relax. But that is a long way from coping with all the problems we face. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u23	V.E.G. President. After years, after the expedition of ocean research ships, fur parvoti was published for fishing. It stated that among other things, it was based on a new catch rule that had been adopted. I think I'm a reasonable observer of the news and business of the country, including fishing roads, but this surprised me. This led me to ask for a meeting on the job board to discuss this case on the one hand, at a meeting with the Oceanographic Institute and the Ministry, and then at a meeting on February 2 with stakeholders for all views. For one thing, I have asked for this special discussion at the highest. Minister to discuss the new hierarchical order. For one thing, I'd like to make it clear that the person here is not speaking for spontaneous hunting. We're supposed to speak for sustainable fishing, hold a long-term challenge. We need to do research so that it is based on the best information available. Among other things, on the page of the Oceanographic Institute of Research says about this expedition, with the permission of a president: On January 4, the Árni Friðriksson's count began with Viking measurement, but on the evening of January 5, due to a storm in the Greenland Strait. A Árni again began readings west from the Corrosian ridge on January 7th. On January 13, due to Vicodin, the test came to an end. Then there's something, a respectable president, which I'd like to give special emphasis on: ▪ Because of weather coverage, circumstances in echo - language testing had been difficult and therefore could not be used to counsel the results. A study tour was completed in the week 13,◯20. January. At that time, the weather was good and was able to cover a larger area, including several fishing vessels. Then the result was as if it had been clicked, just like this: From this measurement, the fish stock is about 675 Thoust. tons I don't think that's acceptable. Here, the government is a great responsibility, and all of us are under a financial obligation to carry out ships for analysis. Whether it was for this or for any other reason, ships were accused of returning after the aforementioned meeting on a professional committee and are still on the basis of tests. I repeat what I said; this needs to be examined carefully, and we need to be sure what we're doing. But there's a lot of doubt here. In this article, people are saying that there are huge errors in the calculus, and this calls for a huge increase in research. As an example of the importance of our national farming, there are 100 of us. According to these measurements, tons of Iceland and I share $11.6 billion. Of these, pay costs are 2.8 billion, the cost of fishing 400 million. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. K. By various other charges, there are about 2.7 billion in the state. This pays a lot to the staff, of course. 13 companies in ten rural areas engage in this fishing business, 17 ships, four construction ships, 260 sailors working on it, and in a country of 600 people. That is why the new policy of fishing makes it possible for you to catch a fish that could be 653/4.70 B.C.E. tons less according to the new catch rule compared to the old. In exports there are some 73/48 billion people, and then they can be able to figure out how it works for the staff, rural society, and nationalisation. In such a brief, special discussion where a man is dosed five minutes to comply with the case with a minister, I have also raised questions that I hope a minister has received. These are: Because it is a multi-cultural model, is it not called for more research on the longitude of the fur and the evaluation of the hijacking, fish, and whales? Would it not have been more reasonable to complete a thorough study of the changes proposed in a new model and drive it out for a few years? Has there been a budget and a work plan to improve the research of the hairy stock and its demolition in Iceland, increasing the maintenance of marine research ships and the increase in funding for the Marine Research Agency for these research projects? Has there been an assessment of the effect of a new catch could have on hairy fishing with increasing cod population and whale growth in Iceland? And finally: If the new methodology reduces hairy fishing, has its effect been evaluated on individual settlements based on working hard? [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. These are the questions I would like to ask for the highest. Ministers and hopes that there will be a good and perfunctory discussion of this important work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up this case here. I guess senators know that fur is the foundation of the marine life system and the fish resource around the country. The order we've had since 1983 was based on leaving about 400 yous. a ton to spawn. But she has become more critical of ICES, the International Oceanographic Research Council. The main criticism of the rule was that neither the lack of uncertainty in echoes nor the ability to take into account the counseling process. In addition, extrapolations based on young irony analysis were criticized, including due to the low natural mortality assessment. In 2009 the ICES predicted that the policy was not consistent with the precautionary principle. This, in fact, means that this product cannot be recognized, which, of course, is of great importance to us in modern - day markets. In January 2015, ICES suggested that a new catcher that had been working on for about four years. The conclusion was that it was counted in accordance with the precautionary principle. The rule is largely based on the same methodology as that of the Barent Sea's ardor. We Icelanders and I have, in our dealings with the Norwegians and the Greenlandians, decided to take up this policy of making a catch and catching these three countries. In this way we have achieved the goal that we have put before us, to keep one from catching fur in the summer when it is much smaller and younger. That's important. Regarding the last question, if the old policy has been successful, it is therefore clear that it did not meet ICES criteria. Second, there is nothing to say that the old policy was good. In recent years, high levels of eutrophication in Iceland have declined for a long time, perhaps as a result of environmental conditions, but fishing could certainly play a major role. Thus, if not more often, this has resulted in a failure of hairy skin twice during this period. There is no measurement of the quantity of hairy spawn. The only data we know about the scale is the power. It is also asked if it was based on a multiplicity model. It is proper to draw attention to the fact that this is primarily a striped model, not a natural root - evaluation model that would then be considered a multi-cultural model. There is considerable evidence behind the debunction model, which is based on data ranging from 1985 and measurements of the hairy population from that time onward. Granted, there is uncertainty in the debunction model, but this takes into account the change in stock size of predators that the old policy did not, which was merely a fixed death rate of about 5%. Whether it would have been more reasonable to complete a thorough investigation of all these changes, it is correct that the senator's counsel is that there is much error. It's hard to count the fish in the water. But the amount of cods and other predators is changing and has been changing and increasing. The old policy was not critical of the changes, and it was a major criticism. This brings us to meet the demands of time. In fact, it might be as critical that the change was not made much earlier. Whether funding and work programmes have been provided to improve research, so to this end, the study of hairy has been mainly a matter of research and measurement to base the advice on. Such measurements are not suitable for study data. Further studies are very desirable and also measuring how much hairy spawn is likely to be done, but this would probably be best done by measuring the amount of larvae after ovulation as soon as possible. As for the financial resources of the Oceanographic Institute, it is true that through many years this institution has had to endure cuts, such as other social institutions. We have been adding to it in the past, and in recent years, for example, we have produced a quality Veterans Institute. Clearly, a larger codfish will eat more. The impact of whales' eating has not been taken into the catch rule. Thus, a new catch can affect hairy prices with increasing cod population and whale growth. However, what is most likely to affect the growth margin of fur can be determined by evaluating the growth of the hairy population and preventing or reducing its uncertainty in the opinion of the population on stock food. [[The president calls.]] I'll get to the last two questions in my final answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u25	Mr. President. For the first time this year, furovate was distributed after a new catch, as noted. The International Oceanographic Council had made a comment to the earlier distribution rules. The old policy did not provide any uncertainty, such as echo measurements, and the results indicated that the effects of other fish stocks on fur were higher than those of the old labour policy. As a result, it did not meet the standards of the International Oceanographic Council. It is true that enormous interests are behind us, and it is important to be confident that a new order is based on the best scientific research. It is not wise to run from what the International Oceanographic Council has written. Today, you can hunt at 177. a ton of fur, but with a new catch, there are about 100 of them. a ton to us Icelanders. For decades, the old catch rules were being used, and if that were the case, it would give about 230,250 you. a ton of fur. But my opinion is that a lot more money must be put into the oceans when it comes to such enormous economic interests, both for national and for the work of a large number of people in the country. There are many major investments, both in the sea and in the country. As has been observed in the case of humans, over the years there has been a budget for the EEC and it is necessary to improve the research and monitoring of the mediums, and it is important to be confident that enough research is involved, for example, the effects of growing cod stocks on the hairy population.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u26	A respectable president. I was so deep into this thing with my fur that I forgot to get up, I'm sorry. I'd like to say, "What?" paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, it was surprising. We did not really know where the weather was coming from when we learned it on a job committee with the benefit of visitors that this new policy would result in much less activity. It is natural for people to ask themselves, " How did I reach that conclusion? ' I'm alone, and I'd like to say so, just like a saying, that I want to be self-sustained on this stock as well as on others. We need to apply the advice offered by a Vessel Research Institute. The International Oceanographic Research Institute decides this new labour policy, but it does not properly include data from the Oceanographic Institute. Once research has been summed up from year to year on the fur, you ask yourself, " Is this really the right result?'Because the data we are working on are insufficient, these research or research data from Iceland. There's too little money in the ocean, and then we see black and white that we can catch less because the evidence is not enough to allow us to catch more, we agree on it. This is important in every box here, every cash box, into the fishing costs as far as we're concerned. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid we're saving money, but we're throwing the crown down when we limit the money to ocean research.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u27	A respectable president. The most important basis for good hunting advice is the research of the Ecological Institute. All our trust in the international community is based on scientific research, and we from Iceland have gained the confidence of the international community in fishing and the use of commercial fishing institutions in Iceland's jurisdiction, not of an investigation of critical and objective discussions that are always beneficial. The older policy did not have international recognition, so a new rule was adopted as international recognition. Today, companies are able to earn a witness, something of utmost importance to all marine development in the country. A new catch of enlargement and decrepitation of the hairy powder is introduced, but the cod population has grown enormously over the years and this should be taken into account in the distribution of the hairy powder. Here the ancient cry proves that one death is another's bread. This decision to change the fishing principle because of increasing cod populations shows us how important it is to maintain harmony in nature's quality of life, to make the use of fishing plants in harmony with the expansion of individual institutions and hunting capacity and to put forth for sustainable use in the hunting and processing around the country. It's known to the Icelanders. In recent years, the population of the humpback whale has grown immensely, but it is estimated to grow by about 10% each year and the population is estimated to be in the range of 16 in 2020. Animals. It is not only that the whales do much harm to the fishing instruments of hairy ships in the middle of the north and east when they dive into the hairy plant and blow up the fishing instruments that cost tens of millions of dollars but that they eat plenty of food from the sea. It is estimated that each adult animal eats about 800 kg every day. It is vital, then, that we be careful about the balance of nature so that one strain does not grow beyond another, and the food chain survives.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u28	A respectable president. Of course, it is always that people want the fishing grounds to be sustainable and resources in general but, in the same way, they want to catch the most. This is an inevitable contradiction. As far as I can see, the new policy is more scientific and responsible than the one used to be. I realize that there may well be disagreements about a particular conclusion, but it remains that everyone agrees that the hairy house is an unusual population and cannot be found precisely how safe it is to hunt. This involves the nature of the matter, as it were, the need to be careful. In the case of institutions to help us maintain sustainable fishing, I feel alone that we need to listen. Of course, it is bad for a number of communities and businesses that are largely dependent on the fact that certain fishing takes place when it becomes clear that no fish is to be caught or cannot be caught. It is part of something else that we generally need to keep in mind when it comes to becoming overemphasis in a particular industry and that we need to be able to cope with setbacks. No matter whether we are changing a system according to the advice of other institutions or simply because nature fails us, it does. As shown in the case of the highest. A minister does not necessarily mean that the old system was better than the new one. In view of the challenges that have come with evaluating an institution with confidence, I feel that it is important for us to stay a bit. We may have doubts, but I think it's important that we base our doubts on scientific reasoning that I'm not, as the situation is now, to fall into the old system's hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u29	A respectable president. The use of fish plants, such as other natural resources, may require that scientific research be the basis for innovation. At the same time, however, the requirement, if quoted in a scientific sense, must be made that it is based on research and solid evidence. Science should be used as evidence only if research is followed and, therefore, fairly certain of what comes from resource use. The science that is quoted in relation to the new catcher rule in the hairy house depends partly on the guesswork of the natural declines of the hairy population and the ovulation size schedule, without sufficient data to be predicted. The question arises: Is Iceland's hairy stock in danger? It may have been devoid of evidence, but is it at the expense of this species, or might there be more than enough fur in the ocean? Some fishermen claim that there is much more than enough fur in the ocean. I don't know, but the other I know, every 100 yous. The cost of a ton of fur is between 51⁄27 billion, so, of course, there are enormous interests at stake that need to be evaluated in the light of the principle. Respect for the environment and the requirement for sustainability are self-selective environmental considerations in terms of the use of natural resources. We should respect these basics, but at the same time, we must make a demand for accuracy when it comes to scientific evidence and such accuracy is impossible unless research is intensified and the monitoring is rapid. Now this is proved true, especially in view of the great interests mentioned here, that saving can be expensive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for bringing up this important subject. It is far too rare to discuss the condition of fish stocks and how we use the resources at this location. I would've thought what. A senator should have avoided getting puffed up because he was paying close attention. I'm here with a story from the Department of Professional Road and Development since 08 May 2015. It says: In line with the latest advice of the International Oceanographic Council and the Marine Research Agency, the United States decided to adopt a new protocol for this summer. This new policy will lead to a lower total population at baseline due to a precautionary measure. Is this very consistent with Iceland's interests because of its importance to the marine environment here. Well, then I'd like to say that this is just a precautionary point for the best communities in terms of the survival of the hairy stock. I agree that we need more money to study, and perhaps more is involved in using the fur fleet to look for fur. One or two ships; we know what a hairy hunt has been - whether they had two more three ships - that much more vessels are needed to search for fur. You know, phoning's a success, and I don't think the father was taking enough ships. I don't think the Norwegians have found this hairy thing--as if it's now hard to see the Norwegians fishing here while we're waiting to take it somewhere more valuable. They just didn't go east enough. The sailors have told me that they were fishing in a large area, and this fur just hasn't been found out about this expedition. [[The president calls.]] I encourage us to put more money into research and to use the fur fleet more for research. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u31	Mr. President. It is natural to know the national context, which is unusually clear when it comes to measurement of the hairy stem and entering the season. And if it has not been properly measured before, it can run on billions of dollars and billions of dollars if good results are obtained showing that the estimated spawn of spawning plants may be larger than those previously applied to measurement. Somehow, the only way you're going to make a walk is to measure the pace itself, when you're ready for ovulation, must be a very big change because you're so well aware of how uncertain the measurements are in the early stages. Loining is a short - lived population, and it is not much of a time to figure out the size of each year's life and often not the final result of it until then if the tunnel is able to measure just before ovulation. With regard to the new apocalyptic order, and may it be said that such biological and technical circumstances to gain data in its behalf, I well admit that I'm not aware enough of that, but I've wondered, as well as well. An apocalyptic, whether we are fully prepared to take up this rule in one step, or whether it would have been possible to introduce it in stages with some support for an older rule. Of course, and to make sure of that, we need to base on the best approved methods in these materials and have the basis for our sustainable use. This is of utmost importance, especially when a basic type of food chain or such life forms are involved. It brings me to these paths to reflect on our own performances, not just on scraping oil together on the ships and trying to measure the trunk so that we can make the most of it, but money for basic research, basic research, they'll be the more important we're going to go deeper into this context and use abduction and a multi-cultural model and what it is now. There I think we really need to get together and develop ocean research, not just as an analysis center, but as a basic research institution and a basic research agency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u32	A respectable president. I am glad to hear that there is a harmony with all of them. Councilmen who have spoken about this matter and, in fact, a minister. Everyone wants self-sustaining fishing, of course, as much as possible from the fur for fishing and processing, but not too much to destroy. How good it is that we agree on this. V.E.G. The minister went over how little we know about the hairy hair. He said it was hard to count the fish in the ocean. Of course it is difficult, but he has the tools to do so. That is why I want to direct it to a minister, when he hears the concern of all the members of the council on this particular matter: Will he see to it that we learn a little more about the fish in the sea, that we begin to count it more accurately? We've said, and the highest. A minister himself has said that this will happen only by working more and more carefully at it. Then there is a need to give more money to this important organization, for what we spend in it can be restored by a great deal. Of course, some effort is needed to make sure that in good years we are fishing in harmony with what we can catch and catch. I'm going to direct the Minister to report to the council how he's going to improve this institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u33	A respectable president. Once again, I want to thank you for the discussion here and thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for starting this discussion. Research in the ocean and measurements of fish stocks are essential for sustainable fishing on the land. The cost of research and continuation of the research ships of the Oceanographic Institute is a price compared to the interests involved. As mentioned above, we are expected to expand our cooperation with the projection that can offer ships for research. A new policy requires much more extensive research and measurements of fish stocks all around the country. We need to eliminate the uncertainty of groundwaters and to trust the survival of the article as presented here, both for land workers and for the national community as a whole. We need to revise all our contracts on hunting through the Norwegians and the Faeroes in Icelandic jurisdiction. It focuses primarily on our interests. It is important to maintain good contact with these people of our friendship, but in this game each one is next to himself. In view of the fact that the Norwegian people have failed to maintain their land immunity for the past 15 years, the North people no longer enter the jurisdiction of Jan Mayen. We need to revise what we shop at in the Barents, especially when the hairy population is low. It is worth noting in this discussion that there are many opportunities to work with the Greenlandns about hairy fishing and fishing from other institutions. Of course, Iceland is an ideal home run for the entire eastern coast of Greenland. We need to find a way to build trust in a new catcher rule that presents a whole range of issues and findings based on research. This is important, as previously said, that a Habitat Institute can carry out its ships for research throughout the year, but it requires financial support to come from the high Council. I have great confidence in Icelandic captains and sailors, who know that by their joint efforts, experience, and knowledge in cooperation with the Oceanographic Institute, they are the best results in research possible for the Icelandic Sea route, for the benefit of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u34	V.E.G. President. For one thing, I'd like to thank the members of the council who have participated in this discussion and ministers for the answers. I think there's a contingency in this council, I agree, that we're going to do sustainable fishing. We are not going to take too much, but we are not going to leave too much behind and let our hairy hair die too much. The reason I asked for a meeting on a professional committee and this discussion is here on the website of the Marine Research Institute, by permission of a president: ▪ Because of weather coverage, circumstances in echo - language testing had been difficult and therefore could not be used to counsel the results. Then came another week, with good weather, 13,◯20. January; seven days used to base this conclusion on. That's where I'm stopping and I don't think we're doing enough of this. There is a large share of the growth of marine research ships and funding to the Marine Research Centres that need to be increased. V.E.G. Ministers discuss environmental conditions in the ocean, and that's exactly right, they have a lot to do with it. It's warmer water. Therefore, we need to get much, much farther north to observe, where weather may be even worse than it did in the direction the ships sailed. Is there a lot of fur way north under Scoresby Strait, or where is it? She's been up here sometimes. People are even waiting for it now, and they don't understand: Where is the cake that the Norwegian Noateships were catching deep out of the Seyster plains a week ago or so? Where's the fur? Where does she come up from? As a result, when we have even predicted that little of it was involved, it has come in abundance. This is of utmost importance. Ministers to hear the agreements presented here regarding increased budgets for the Marine Research Agency so that further research can be done, we need those results so that we have the best results to make such dramatic decisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u35	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your objective discussion. The last question I would answer was why. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller on the effects of a new show order on individual settlements. Happily, the settlements do not simply build their produce on hairy ground; they usually build on almost all the seawaters. As we well know, a new species of us, the mackerel, has actually been strengthening our position at the expense of fur in recent years. A new formula was designed to give similar amounts when the trunk was small and smaller when the trunk grew. She would then be swinging, of course, with some scrawl marks. So the question is, do you know, this 50,370 you're talking about? the margin is now. So all I did was correct what was said, we set the rules, but ICES confirms it. For word's sake. One senator may ask: " What other than science have we to do with it? ' Well, it's the same data on which the old policy was based. If the scientific evidence is not good enough, it was also not good enough for the old rules. Economics are well balanced, and they are still being measured. More measurements reduce uncertainty, but they can certainly give a hint and result in a decrease in levels. In this regard, there is not always evidence to calm down. It is a pleasure to hear the agreement on the importance of research and support for increased ocean research. I think it's very important and good to know that they're here. The fact is, however, that this policy is a rule of caution. In effect, it says we can witness the product on international markets. We also allow nature to enjoy the doubt, especially in the light of the fact that this is a basic biological foundation. Of course, we need to handle such a root with caution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u36	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the social and housing minister for answering my inquiry here today. The request is simple. It reads: What's the reason that Kent's apartment loan fund has set up an ehf for the tenant. in the trade process, and does a minister believe that selling the company contributes to achieving the objective of a cabinet minister? For years, it has been said of promoting a public rent. It's been working year after year, and it's finally starting to get primes in that direction. It's the general housing companies and housing benefits. General housing companies are for people in income - bearing groups, but it is important to promote the general rent - rent market over their heads, including those with moderate and higher income. During the last term, then minister of Guðbjartur Hannesson made the decision to use the living position of those tenants who had gone under the collapse to create a new camp loan union that was responsible for the role of a common tenants. The Society owns about 500 apartments it rents out, and its business is doing well. There's been a choice for families on long-term rents, i.e. House security. It has been the problem with a public tenet that people have not been able to live in security but have even had to move from school to school each year. This, of course, is an unsatisfying situation for children. In fact, there are three markets that take care of this general market, at home with about 500 apartments, the Glama's public rental society, with about 500 apartments, and about 450 credits. This union was formally established at the beginning of 2013, making it a three - year - old, successful society that has been able to expand and increase the number of apartments. I don't understand why a minister won't allow this partner to live on, thereby fulfilling his role in the government's construction of a generally secure tenet.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir for her inquiry for the government's sale at the Uletti Corporation. Like what? A senator said the question fairly simple: What is the reason why the camp loan fund has set up the renter, Rockt ehf. in the trade process, and does a minister believe that selling the company contributes to achieving the objective of a cabinet minister? First, in order to cover the question only, it is proper to assume that a camp loan fund is an independent agency so that the decision to sell its goods is entirely in the hands of the fund rather than a minister. According to this, it is proper to remind the fund's authorization to run a tenure with the best possible property, No. 44/1998, with Article 4. track No. 84/2012. In comments with the bill when it was presented, it says on that article, with the permission of a president: ▪ In view of the number of apartments that have been acquired in this way, it is reasonable to consider whether it is proper to raise a tenant partner who has the care of the fund for these apartments. It is estimated that the tenant partner will be separated from the traditional bank business of the apartment loans, which makes it out of harmony with the role of an apartment loan board as a creditor for an apartment housing house and long-term renting out an apartment. In this regard, it is held that if this source is to be viewed as a temporary arrangement, it is not to be expected otherwise for the change in the role of the camp loans in the bill. It was then repeated in the majority of welfare committees, by permission of a president: ▪ The more part considers the comments made in a paper with the bill to be a temporary arrangement. The more part of it feels that the apartment loan fund is going to go to a more special tenant company than if it was to be tried to sell every item that has been acquired in a short time, as it would result in a great decrease in real estate prices and thus demeaning public property. This involves the management of the apartment loan fund as a loan agency set apart from the hire of a tenure company with a special company. So it continues: The ◆ The more part also considers it important to make a targeted sale of the company's property when the situation allows, but also encourages caution in this way to ensure that the company's goods for sale will be guaranteed, so the sales will not result in much increase in rent prices. The landlord's partner, Rock Freckles. is a private partner owned by an apartment loan fund. The main purpose of the organization is to operate and dig in long-term apartments. The Society is being run on market foundations according to the legislation of the legislator's requirements and intended to maximise the value of the property of the Substitute Bank. Therefore, rent pay generally takes into account markets and is usually non-term contracts, but there is something about temporary agreements. You will be asked to pay your rent on the legal relationship of renters with your partner, including your resignations and commissions, and will not be seen to have any effect on the legal rights of the tenants where the contract remains unchanged, i.e. ... betweenthecopyandthecompany. Then, about the second part of a question, which is why. I would like to see that the policy of a minister or the government in housing is met by the conference that has been established in the primary target I have submitted to a council that considers how we can support and contribute to the building of a rented house for less tenants. There is the emphasis on government stocks, in addition to the fact that the State is the carer for rent - rent housing. The government's support for the general tenure will be and has been in the form of payment on income - related rent payments rather than on the State's role as landlords. Therefore, the Cat's sale is in accordance with the policies established in housing and is now being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u38	Mr. President. Of course, that the apartment loan fund is an independent agency and that the tenure partner was thought of as temporary resources and not the future role of the Substitution of such a hired society does not say that the state and rural communities together or other social groups could not have proposed to use the government library that has come to be owned by government, in some way, to improve the position in the tenet market. There are countless ways to do so. The government could, therefore, only establish an independent tenant tenure society, and then nothing would have detracted on his competitiveness. They must ask themselves, " If these apartments are to be sold on the market now, what will happen to them? ' Who are likely to buy them? Don't you think it's private tenants and/or people who want to get a place for travel, for example? There are good apartments, and Kletti is the best part of the library, which, of course, would have been very tempted to make some use of it in order to minimize the lack of housing for affordable costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u39	A respectable president. I'm going to try to ask you a question. The leader and the boss. Senators who don't think it's a good move to sell this company, Britt. I sometimes pondered the role of the State in various industrys, and I believe that the Icelandic economy is not necessarily large enough to live with competitive conditions in all possible markets. So I'm always open to both, whether it's evidence that something is better in the state or in the private. I do not quickly see evidence that this is better at home with the state or with an institution like an apartment loan fund. I would love to hear more about the reasons why they're here. The underlying problem of housing is simply a lack of housing and is of various ways. But I don't see the answer being that an apartment loan fund is holding a firm like Rockt. I would love to hear evidence that it is a good arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u40	V.E.G. President. A major economic and economic problem, on the other hand, is the domestic affairs. In the United States, large tenets have not been effective and have not been large. These have been social apartments, but payers with medium incomes that have been willing to rent have only been able to rent them for a limited amount of time. Therefore, the opportunity was used and taken to build a society like this, in order to build a solid foundation into the public tenet. It was certainly to be a temporary arrangement, but the question is, When it is a great lack of housing, it is right to sell this company out of the State's possession. It is that, as far as I'm concerned, there are only about 1,500 rented apartments on the market belong to a partner in a public market. It's a small market, and it's only natural for the government to stay out of it until we have proof that there's actually going to be a market there. In fact, there is a lack of markets where the State has decided to make room to contribute to the construction of a private tenants. The public landlord and home farm are companies who are seriously involved in their business, but we don't know what they're going to do in the next few years. So far they are growing and increasing their investments. But these are companies who can sell their assets six months or two years later. Then there's no strong partnership in the common lease. Mr. President. So I ask: Is it not too difficult for a minister to do this, and does it not feel that because of lack of housing, this will raise rent prices? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u41	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I reiterate what I said in my first reply, that it is clear what the Lawgiver's will was for the disposition of the property taken over by the forced sale following the collapse. It shows that this is a temporary license to have a tenant partner. It was not intended to change the role of a camp loan fund for the future and, along with the changes being made at the time, were to react to the comments of the EFTA Monitoring Institute, including their conclusion that the camp loan fund uses welfare. It has also been suggested that the ESA has then considered it a requirement for the possession and management of a hired society to be out of public assistance with society, that there is a temporary arrangement to maximise the value of the property of the apartment loans. Thus, the sale of the company is a factor in meeting the criteria that the ESA set for approval of the current state support system. It is also an assessment of the government that there are significant reasons for selling the rented body of Klein and for having a positive influence on the management of the fund; and that now is the right time to sell the company in order to maximise the value of funds that would have a positive effect on its survival and to strengthen its own funds. However, it is also important to keep in mind what the fund has been doing. In effect, he was making quite a number of tenants selling property collections, making a decision to sell a smaller box of so - called contracts to test the market in an open, transparent process, and making great advances there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The sea sold 286 assets in five museums in an open sales process during 2015, and this is a comparable process in which 15 libraries were offered. So it can be said that there were about 20 tenants there.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u42	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Healthcare Minister for having a word with me today and answering my inquiry. There's a lot of complications in the health and social security system. One of these complications is that people with persistent and stable disability or disability are not distinguished from those with possible temporary or variable disability or disability. As a result, people with stable, long - standing disability and disability need to be repeatedly applying for new health products, car parking cards, training and rights to be replaced by tools, though it is anticipated that the individual is experiencing disability or disability throughout his life. Regulation No. 1,155/2013, respectively. of 9. g., about applications for aid tools, by permission of a president: The applicant is obliged to provide all the necessary information to the Agency in order to make a decision on the right to power, money, payment, and review. When evaluating an application, an overall individual's condition should be examined. The application procedure should always include an assessment of the need for assistance provided by the healthcare professional working on a solution for the individual, although there is no financial benefit in relation to the application by a healthcare professional. In addition, a description of the lack of ability and logical support for aid should be made. Much work and energy is involved in making repeated applications and is a waste of discussing the abilities and resources of people in need of the helpers, health professionals involved in the preparation, receiving, and review of Witness words and applications, and then the community. In addition, modern technology development has to handle registrations that prevent this imbalance. It is important that registration of stable and sustained disability and disability are stored in a database so that the information does not always need to be published. The requirement for proof of the burden of disabled people, disability, and their victims of their own existence is humiliating and demeaning the rights of people to enjoy natural and human dignity according to international human rights obligations. Mr. President. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: He will consider, or he may consider revising regulations about aid devices, such as the Regulation on strength for assistance tools No. 155/2013, in order to reduce the need for renewal of applications for aid tools or support tools for those with permanent disability or disease?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He pointed to me by word of mouth for whether I would agree to review regulations about aid devices, such as the Regulation on strength for aid tools No. 15155/2013, in order to reduce the need for renewal of applications for aid or support tools in the group of people with permanent disability or disease. Since the inquirer asks if I intend to reconsider the Regulation on help tools, I would like to begin by saying that there is only one principle of help that will depend on my health - care provider's field. This is the regulations cited here. At the beginning, it is reasonable to assume that according to health insurance law it is mandatory to get pre-communications from Iceland's Medical Insurances due to the cost of participation in the building of the necessary helpers. Therefore, spontaneous applications cannot be avoided. Proservation for reinforcements due to aid tools No. On January 1, 2014, 1,155/2013 went into effect. This Regulation reviewed application procedures and application requirements. The change was also made that healthcare professionals other than doctors are increasingly allowed to submit applications and confirm the need for assistance. It is also no longer necessary for a doctor's certificate to follow the application; it is now sufficient for an application to include an assessment of the healthcare professional who is working on a solution for an individual, as well as his description of the reduced skills of the partner and support for the need for help. This change has greatly simplified the application procedure. The induction of electronic applications last year has also simplified the application procedure. You can now apply electronic aid and send in electronic medicine. At that time, the issue of Regulation was made the change from previous proof of physician proof of permanent disability or chronic disease status for unlimited periods of time. I'd also like to assume that over the past few months, a lot of work has been done at the U.S. Department of Medical Insurance. In that town, new vision and relief work has been set up for the relief center, i.e. improving services and improved efficiency, and is in full practice. It has provided, among other things, that there were 278 people on a waiting list for service at the workshop, but today are around 40, so that a waiting list for service on the shop has been greatly sustained on the basis of the improvements that Iceland's Medical Insurance has had at the Help Center. There, everyone has worked on one thing to improve the process and to make things work better than before. Hence, the work there is to be done, as well as a cause for rejoicing and gratitude. V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson asks if a minister is planning to revise a tool to reduce the need for renewal of applications for those with permanent disability or disease. In view of the fact that the application procedure has been very simplified with the current Regulation, I don't think that there is a need for a review of the Regulation's strength on the basis of tools, but, of course, at any given time, we are open to upbuilding criticism or comments on the better. In view of what accumulates once we have worked for some time with the regulations presented here, it is likely to reconsider.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u44	V.E.G. President. This is an important matter. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson's coming up. He did, in fact, make mostly 9. Regulation No. 155/2013 of relevant material. V.E.G. A minister was answering that he did not believe that this was a valid reason to review the Regulation. However, I would like to point out that there is a point in the Regulation that I believe is to revise, there are other things besides. A senator mentioned. One is that in accordance with current regulations, support is not given due to means for use only in leisure or recreation. I think there's something to look at. The same is shown in paragraph 7. that it is rural to give strength because of tools for study and employment. I feel that there is a need to examine the interaction between this Regulation and the activities of rural society because disabled people must live with the same rights, regardless of their habitat. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So finally, because my time is up: Has this Regulation been reviewed in view of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'm not quite happy with them. I would like him to revise this in the light of what I listed earlier, to make the process simpler for people so that information is available in a database. There is no chance that some who are even paralyzed below the breast will recover, so it is clear that they have lasting disability for life. It's just that if people need new tools, they can even be a physical therapist or some expert with whom they apply for help without having to go through the whole process. This is what it's all about, simplifying the process, making this less trouble for people who are having problems, e.g. Going around and stuff. I just agree with what. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir, who came into the past, needs to consider this law far better and precisely the article she spoke about. I focused on the 9th floor. today, but it has to go through this. Hv. A member of the United Nations also asked about the agreement on the rights of disabled people, and I wondered: " When the Regulation was prepared, was there contact with disabled people? One key factor in bringing into the community this contract is that disabled people are included in the process of making a rule about it. Today, we are a highly e - mailed people. Making a database should be very simple, making it necessary for people not to be applying for it forever. An example showing the misunderstanding, as shown in the case of the highest degree. Healthcare Ministers earlier, this is the only Regulation under which he will agree, and other regulations agree with other two ministers. That's one of the things you wanted to see that things were changing and complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-02-15-75.u46	A respectable president. Yes, I take my heart to the viewpoints that have come up here on the misunderstanding. Often, we find ourselves in gray areas between health care and social services on things related to the insurance system or the state system and then on the affairs of our rural society. More often than not, you're looking at the health show first. I don't know why. But there's something that's just built into us looking at it first. I agree with the view that this needs to be done. Hv. In view of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, a senator asked if the Regulation was being reviewed. I don't know that, but I promise I'll look at it, inquire about it. [[Take it up: look at it.]] The review and renewal of the Regulation has been based on the knowledge and experience of the people who have worked in the seminary throughout history. I'm not trying to argue that the work that the Regulation produces is a piece of stone, a long road away. I declare myself ready to accept and view the points and to address them to my people who are working with the group. There's no one there to overdo things. There are reasons why this is being done in the way of the Regulation, and there are explanations and efforts to make it a desirable reality if you can do so without much grief. I thank you for the discussion and all indications of improvement that can be made in this case.
