ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u1	There'll be time for a conference at the same time. That's 1,3β-14 today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u2	V.E.G. President. Already the end of this council is two issues that show that we do not get a walk. That's very sorry. First of all, it's the bill on the LAIN and secondly the Department of Pension, i.e. Pays government funds to pensions. To be honest, I'm very sad. This is one of the conditions associated with so - called contracts between government and government opposition at any time in which the government of the day tries to get a position by stopping a national agreement that would go through here. This is the pressure I hope will be on the decline of the next day and be done away with. I also hope that students who have prayed for the LIN bill to become a law, recall the time they entered the booth in the fall, who were preventing the bill from becoming a law and taking good care of it before they vote in the fall. In terms of the pension fund, it's very sad that it's been around here. As a result, their clients, a representative of the employee, will likely have to pay 20% more in the pension fund at the end of the New Year's Day. This is going back to the beginning of other matters that hang out there, like the SALEK convention and other things. To be honest, I am very concerned that this could have a long - term effect, so it is very sad that in these last days neither of these matters has been gained far from the eyes of a whole body of Congress. I second that voters need to bear in mind what responsibility this is.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u3	V.E.G. President. There are a number of interesting and interesting times in the politics, both in the all - time campaign, and then at the Council, where each big issue runs second on the agenda of the council. Last night we agreed here at the General Act Act, where musicians are reimbursed 25% of the costs of recorded music in Iceland, the same applies to the law on reimbursement on filmmaking. Nothing good about saying, a respectable president, this will promote Icelandic music and Icelandic filmmaking and will hopefully attract extracurricular activities, just as the film is tested. Thus, in another form, I am convinced of more money than is offered by the State Fund, including innovation, a wide variety of employment opportunities, and, especially, lists. Similarly, we should look to the interests of established non-particical organizations, which here in many ways take the yoke from the authorities and save the tax of the common people. I'm a lover of sports, youth and teenage partners. There, tens of thousands of people do most of the volunteer work, a job that we should defend and promote. These activities need to be built, and these buildings must be maintained, and in many places these are social services that promote health, physical, and spiritual health. There, young ones learn discipline and practice, set goals, and have a self - image that will benefit them in a wide variety of ways in learning, playing, and working. This is at the same time, I appreciate, the cheapest, most powerful building and preemptive work we can do and support in a way that we support these articles, the recordings of music and filmmaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm glad that the results are in the case of the songing of electrical lines to the Backwaters. It is clear that the uncertainty that has existed over the past few days has had a very unpleasant and disturbing effect on the inhabitants of the Northern Parliament and the House of All. We are completely aware that at stake there is a work structure that is important to the area. At stake are the property of people who would have been greatly dejected if that assignment were to fail. At stake is the work of those who have at this moment's work because of building up the heavy equipment there will be. It's all about it. These are not little ones, and this is nothing that can be wiped off the table with one hand swing. It is the life of these people. It is not about a wealthy garden to shine. When people consider that such vehicles are more than others, let us also be aware that there is a tremendous and even greater contamination of the transport of tourists to the land. But what really matters is that the decision seems to be coming into this situation that will be successful for us and that this work structure will continue. That's what we celebrate here today. I hope we don't have to face another new thing coming up. It would be a huge shock to this community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u5	A respectable president. Iceland continues to struggle to see whether a small group will continue to take on much more than others, whether the fishing team and the Panamaate are still going to make more money at the expense of the others. The head of the Independence Party is not concerned about this position, but it is enough to increase the balance in society. Every day we see that the rich grow richer and more divided. Among these things, a respectable president, will be chosen for the freedom of a few to make money, for the benefit of natural resources, for the well - being, for the benefit of sick people, or for the freedom of the community of all to enjoy education, for the well - being, in order to enjoy health regardless of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u6	A respectable president. It is only hope. paritaprevir Sæmundsson thinks it's crazy that the LIN case can't get through, huh? Clearly, a senator has not studied it well enough. This case was in trouble. A global and educational committee was underestimated that all calculations available were bound to some kind of magic. They were conning a world of Congress by saying that 85% of students would get out better. It was released by assuming that a single mother with two children on student loans would only remove from the school loan system equivalent to 115 of yours. K. in a month and would therefore reduce their total income by 190 you. K. per month. That was the basis of the bill. Similarly, there was no way for some students to take student loans, as students must. I have an example of an art student who goes to the LHI, where the semester costs 490 you. K. and then in a master's study in concerts where the semester costs 796 you. K. If he took a full staging loan, which is very natural, that is what students do now, and a school loan would be his payment per month about 30 yards. K. It would double for the current system. Is that great? Despite your 65. K.? This bill is a very good reason why we got up and said, "No, that's not good enough. They are breaking down certain equations, making sure that the rich get the strength and come out of college, make sure that students at parents'homes can come out of debt while those who have children pay the bill. Got it. A senator's Fairness? No, I don't think so either. As a result, I resisted this bill and am very comfortable with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u7	A respectable president. I would like to, perhaps, in the final talk I give in this talk, to speak only about consumers. I led a group as Minister of Internal Affairs who was to propose a Senate hearing on consumer matters. Among them were members of all categories here at the council. We have concluded that I should rightly hope that the next Minister of the Interior will step out of the drawer and enforce. We bring up a number of things that will improve consumer rights, and most of them have been identified in previous times, even in reports since 2007, that can be done so far back. One of the things we recorded was to collect special loans on a consumer loan, but now we're just about to agree here at Congress that the loan rate is no longer allowed to be borrowed from the loan level, end up -- a respectable president, I'm sorry that I crashed - it doesn't hurt. A loan management may not necessarily be a percentage of the money. For example, now I see that the Lands Bank has begun to advertise, he is not going to use it anymore. Then you might reason: There is now legislation that is developing, has been called for years, and even for decades, and when the legislatures finally decide to do something, the companies respond. You see, the market is not the solution to everything. For example, when the European Union saw that the telecommunications companies were charging their clients for ridiculously high sums of radio phone calls, legislation was placed in which they said: The market is not capable of this, we need to respond. We'll put a roof on the amount of money the companies can collect. It is very important that there are groups here at the council that put the consumer issues first and, when needed, intervene. [[The president calls.]] The market won't take care of everything by itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u8	A respectable president. From the time I mentioned from the General's symposium what I considered to be a violation of human rights in a five - year - old boy whom the Norwegian authorities called after being transferred to Norway, I have received a number of mails that reveal that there is a pot broken in the line of communication between parents and children. Children will be in the midst of their parents, who are unable to get along in the rights of society, and one parent blocks it and hinders the other parent from having contact with their children. Children's protection laws and child law make it clear that the Lawgiver or the government should react. I believe that the law we have to follow requires better to ensure that adults don't take a conflict between children, that people try to ensure that laws can come in there and solve such matters for the child, not about the differences between adults, but about the differences that cause the child not to enjoy associating with his parents, mother, or father's family. It matters, Mr. Honorable President. We need to fix this. A respectable president. Because I'm most likely speaking here as a senator for the last time in the council, I want to thank you very much. I have had the privilege of sitting here as a senator since 2007. We've been going through the sour and sweet in this institution at the time. I've made many good, trustworthy friends. I wish the Allied Parliament, its employees and the Agency itself, especially a success in the years to come and say, "Thank you for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u9	The president would like to say good-bye and wishes for members of the council and thank you. A senator for a very good cooperation for many years, especially during this terms of interest. A senator has been president of the Party of Independence. As president of Congress, I've had very good cooperation with it, as do other council presidents. Of course, trying to bring things together is a real challenge for all members of the council, especially members of the government. Hv. A senator has done so with deep respect and has proved himself to be, as everyone knows, a successful senator when she has handled a case that she has handled, and there are several.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u10	A respectable president. It is vital that members of Parliament speak clearly in big interests. How amazing it is to have witnessed how the government's situation has opposed very big interests, even here at the end of a council! It's important that we don't go in our hideouts, we talk straight out. In fact, they have been getting in the way of pension rights, one of the most equal cases ever presented in recent years. They've been getting in trouble for losers in the community. They have stopped the efforts of the General Assembly to pay for the work to the north of Bakka. They're getting in the way of a case about sea-and-grain development on the Brefjörður known as a rural community, including for building up between 30 and 40 people in Stykkisolmi. They're getting in the way of the student loan bill, changes in it, in the frame plan, with the consequences of electrical power building on the West, and electrical supply on the Skaga or on GDP. They've stood here against taxes. It is good for voters to first understand the emphasis of these categories in the aesthetics that come from them. Whether you are young or old, whether you're in a job market or you're an employer, what interests are being cared for in this exercise? A respectable president. I'd like to mention only the remarkable results that have been made new in the economy during this most ideal period. Secretary of the trade. We've changed taxes and simple regulations around innovation. This year, we have increased contributions to Technical Development Funds by 975 million making contributions to 2.5 billion. There has been a revolution during the season when it comes to professional emphasis. During some discussion, it is held that the two governmental groups represent a major policy, which is entirely false. [[The president calls.]] This is revealed in all of our data, all our work and what is explained by the emphasis that has been placed on promoting the innovation of the economy during this term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u11	President. I'd like to start by correcting that as a good thing. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson just said that the government was responsible for the failure of the government to solve the agreement to equalize the rights of the country's pension fund. It just doesn't have anything to do with the smaller parts. This has all to do with the way the law was written and how those who were negotiating with the government experienced a betrayal. You should be right, Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is often the case as children of inmates, children born here on land, and children who take refuge here are suddenly sent out of the country. All too often reports are received that people, and especially children, who have taken refuge here and have waited a very long time for the decision, receive a call from the police station that they should be on hand to excommunication. In view of the fact that children's interests are never put first, I don't think it's scary. The children are never asked. Children's manager has, among other things, criticized the circumstances of children who come to the country in search of international protection and say that the treatment conflicts with the United Nations Children's Convention. According to him, children should always have the right to express themselves before making decisions about them, but in most cases children will have the opportunity to express themselves before making a decision. I think it's a problem for us. My heart hurts to speak repeatedly to people who live with children under impossible circumstances. Now it's time to expel a pregnant woman from the country, a woman who bore a baby here, and it understands only English. And they're being sent to Nigeria. Enough of the inhumanity around here, don't you think?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u12	A respectable president. This afternoon's program will be conducted on the social security bill, a bill that includes the simplicity of the pension system of older cities from an insurance institution where you will have a 25-time holiday target. K. and the decline rate of all revenues will be 45%. This is a high simplicity of the system and will result in a marked rise for the lowest. This will ensure that the next year's minimum wage will be 280 yous. K. and then pensions will reach 300 yards. K. At the beginning of 2018, a competition between the older citizens' society and the older citizens' Union for a long time, but mainly to the simple system. So here's a good deal. It's come to my attention how much less part of the council has been irritated about this. The lower part has felt that the pay of older citizens is not far along enough and that the next day they pay a significant amount of money. The same people were in the government during the last term. Their first task was to restrict the quality of the disability pensioner and senior citizens. That was their first act. I am not surprised that they are walking right now as they are now doing in relation to what was then done. I'd like to remind you that the members of the council today who chose by the law to impair the rights of older citizens were sharp. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, Hjörvar, Kristjorn L. Möller, Rafney Rapney Magnúsdóttir, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, Þorvarðardóttir, Róbert Marshall, Sigríður Ingadóttir Iggadur, Steigler Sigfússon Siglerson, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, Ögmundur Jónasson and Algur Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u13	A respectable president. Many things have been accomplished during my brief hours at the General Assembly. I don't really want to talk about winning and losing. I want to pick up what comes most into my mind. Last night, we agreed on a big step in decommissioning a money break and the state fund is straightening out the cow after the legendary collapse. We were blessed with a change of rejects, so long - term renewal of marauders in the country's most dangerous areas has taken place in many places. We've made an effort to fix a fiber - optic network in the region and have completed connections in about a thousand locations in the region. Most proud, though, is that I have shared in reducing the debt of the homes that have come well below the average in neighboring countries. Sadly, this step failed to level pension, but hopefully it will succeed before the New Year's Eve. Very likely, we in the country need to admit that we are beaten with the city's airport of Reykjavík, that it leaves the Elder. There is little, though, that there is nothing good in all things. By building up the domestic flight at Cheflavík, you can make it easier for tourists to get across the country, such as in most parts of the world, e.g. In Norway. If a tourist who flies to Cheflavík is going to Akureyri by flight, it's a bit complicated for him to get between flights, since there is no direct transportation. Furthermore, the Cheflavor airport is not connected to a public transportation system so that a bus can be jumped and taken to Selephos. The public carriages are not allowed to stop at the main exits of Leifs Erik's Flights, nor at BSI headquarters. Travelers are almost forced to become beach breakers in the city of Reykjavík. It is not surprising that the city authorities want the airport out of Reykjavík to ensure that tourists in the capital are further involved. Many important assignments await a new assembly, and I would like those here to serve in the next terms of all the best as I thank you for the fine work here, especially the work of committees. Sadly, the common citizen cannot see what work is being done there. I must admit, though, that much strange things are going on in this council hall and not always very convincing, much work is being done at the council hearings and is exemplary. I thank you, my fellow senators, for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u14	President wants to thank you. Similarly, a senator for a very good cooperation during this terms, wishing that he and his family would succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u15	Mr. President. We piranha's heading for radical change in society, real system changes. We are idealists who care about democracy and freedom, and we want to use the opportunities of this century of information and technology to create a free and powerful sharing community here. Rather than seeking power, we seek ways to disseminate power, thus working against special interests and corruption. Now I'm getting elections, and I'm incredibly excited about the projects the Pirantars want to do, to establish a new constitution, to promote a direct democracy, to strengthen the freedom of information and expression, to increase transparency in administration, to open up all the systems, to make them available, and to revise them from the foundation in a complete agreement with the nation. I hope that there will be enough people in this workplace who share these ideals, whether Piratar or not, that's not everything. Our environment is changing, and we must not be afraid to change too. Change is normal and good. They are essential to development and without change. As the situation is now, economic differences are too great and therefore all changes become insignificant and actually kind of virtual. That is exactly what we can see with the huge bills being speeded through in the final meters of the council. We need to get off this path if we want to flourish as a community and work together toward common goals with the rest of our interests. We piranha will bring our heart and soul into the vital work that lies ahead, and we hope so fervently that as many people will join us and share in this journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u16	A respectable president. First, I want to thank Jóhann, the son of Pálsson, for his good cooperation. It has been enjoyable and rewarding to get to know him and work with him, and he is one of those fine, conscientious workers. It's also an advantage. Senator that there's a short time in the humor, which is extremely important in all cooperation. A respectable president. We are now concerned about the high gangs of the Crown, which can have a negative impact on such exports as tourism, fishing, the industry, and the mind - working industry. The ways we have to try to keep this off is because the Fenderal Bank is trying to have an intervention at the market at a suitable cost. I think we need to look at these things for a long time. Our biggest investors are the pension fund that handles our money. It's very important that they invest more in foreign lands. First, it is a simple risk distribution. Those with the money in the pension fund own everything here, here is their work, their housing, and even their other savings. Then, of course, there is a clear risk of international integration when these investors are as large as they really are. I call attention to the Norwegian oil fund having it as a policy, and that is the policy the Norwegian market has to invest only outside Norway, including for the reasons I mentioned here, the risks distributions and not being major within the country. When we need the pension, much of it is to pay for foreign goods. We have to look at these things for a long time. It is clear that the euro market is very unsatisfactory for investors at the moment, but there are other markets. I believe we should seriously discuss whether it is wise to place floors on pension funds and set long - term goals to put their investments and possessions in a much higher proportion abroad. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to be working in my district these days, but at the same time, I'm very proud of the matters we're doing here in a council hall. One of the projects I would have found interesting to be involved in meetings and events related to democracies and Obscurial elections in the high schools. A country relationship between young people and the Union of Icelandic high school students represent the democratic campaign of Kosing following: # I'm krys. The project has been in preparation for a few months, with the goal of promoting democracies, encouraging young people to choose and make informed decisions in the booth. Besides work in school, the home page I choose to be founded. It acts as a crossborder for democracies and contains information, such as the Koscomist, which uses young people as well as others. In many schools, politicians have been invited to visit and introduce themselves at meetings or in chats with students, all organized by students themselves. The votes itself take place on October 13, but results will be made official after the election by the General election is completed on October 29th. I think this assignment is exemplary and that it can be of great importance for a democratic interest and participation in young people. At the same time, I would like to mention the importance of training young people in social activities in classmates, sports companies, and other company groups. Then it is just as important to gain knowledge of the organization of meetings, conventions, and democracies, such as the ability to speak well. The success of political activity, however, is more determined by the social and social training of those who choose to work in politics than by knowledge of individual language groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u18	A respectable president. I'll make a subject of the changes planned on the maximum pay in maternity vacations. First, I would like to comment on the government's failure to allow the maximum budget to follow the prices of this election period to go no longer than at this time, which is not sufficient to achieve 80% of the average that the maximum budget reached after the untimely cut-off in 2009. This government has cut down more at the maximum pay of maternity clinics than ever before in history. It's just a fact. What is even more painful is the fact that a person should decide with an incompetent action of this nature to bind it to a specific date, specifically on October 15 of October. Women who are in a position to have children only sooner lose them, and parents who are so lucky, that mothers go ahead of themselves. What the hell is this shit? What evidence is there that, in the intention of an operation, everyone agrees that space is in the state box before an explosion is so absurd that such ridiculous dates are left in charge? What will those who had children pay for a month ago? It's ridiculous. There's no reason for this. And it's not necessary to do this. It is completely absurd that humans will not take this opportunity and leave the opportunity to all who are now in a maternity clinic or to expect a child to enjoy this injuring action. It is, however, not even taking the maximum payment to the level of the cutout just after a crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u19	V.E.G. President. This is probably the last time I'm going to speak up to this team for a while. Therefore, I would like to thank the president for his welcome and cooperation in the years since I entered the council. Both personal and professional relationships have been particularly enjoyable. I have been so fortunate, young and inexperienced, to have cooperated with as much test ball as I have. President is. After this encounter, I'm much richer. I'd also like to use this opportunity to thank the new vice presidents of this term for a good cooperation and cooperation. I thank the generals for their well-being and would also like to thank the members of the Generals who are here to help us every day with a smile on our faces. Most of all, I thank our babysitters, whom we presidents are helping to help that the Allied meetings may run short under our control. Most of all, I thank the people, the thousands, who chose me to serve at the Council of their time and who thanked them for the confidence they had in their time. I hope that in some way I have lived up to the confidence I was shown. I wish the general members of all the families and the happy families, of course, also of the president. I hope that the generals who come here will find their way back, and those who come in new ones can have a successful career for land and nation. I would like to read a small piece of poetry by poet Einar Benediktsson. It is the final theme of the poem Stefafalm, and then it reads, with permission of the highest power. President: My works are, and I will fall, and I will go. one seed, my land, in thy dust dig; My broken song, which I command thee. one leaf in your song crown wrapped; But the destruction of my mind, It will go away to its beginning. as a booth - restored to the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u20	President thanks a lot. A senator is very fond of his warm and good words. The President has had a very good partnership with what he did. A member of the Presidency Committee, where he has proved to be a zealous and zealous senator. Those who have observed this have surely noted the onset of trouble. A senator has, for example, an e.g. being the most zealous and eager to sit here for a night meeting, and the much longer, the better it is. A senator was found. At this juncture, the president wants to thank you. A senator for his fine work in behalf of the council within the prime committee and in the coming years to benefit him and his family.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u21	A respectable president. I came into my speech earlier, so how the government has been organized in an orderly manner. The problem is the clearest example of what we will see afterward. Although the government has handled this by the way it did this morning, there is, of course, a possibility of further lawsuits in this case and we cannot see the end of it. Interestingly, at the meeting's program, the loan Fund of Icelandic students is not a matter. I'd like to call for it on schedule. This is a big matter that we need to take a detailed discussion about at the council. There are differing opinions about it, and I believe that the council will unite in taking care of this matter to want the democratic vote more than part of the council and that it is extremely important. It's another big deal that's come out of nowhere. Workaholics involved in the construction of the fish and seawaters in Brequired. This is an enormously important issue for the British settlements and is here to develop the construction of a new workplace in the Syckish Sea of 30 to 40 jobs. [[The president calls.]] It's up to you. I'm the highest. To have a conversation with members of the council to see that this case can be scheduled and that it is granted to the council before we finish the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u22	Regarding the case that is taught at LIN, the Icelandic Board of Studyers, there is an agreement on how it will come about here. The president assumes that this will happen in that way at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u23	A respectable president. I'm grateful for that. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson for going up here and giving you a chance to follow his lead because I'm not going to sit under this ridiculous brace. A member of this body and others from the board of directors' section that the government is stopping a business with which the government is turning. She came up with ideas about a law bill because of backs to pay for that project. The decision taken by the duly established government makes it impossible for her to continue with the bill. It is not up to the government to be accused of doing so. I would have always been willing to look at such a bill if it were objective. There's just no way to make such a bill, so it stays under law and constitution. That is why the government is giving up and must acknowledge it and not blame others for its own difficulties. It's about the pension business. It's the highest. A social minister went up here almost in tears yesterday that he wasn't doing it, so it's the government's decision not to resolve it. I was sitting with another officer of the government, okay? paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's jealousy, with the greater part of the budget for hours, encouraged the greater part to continue with the case, promised our support if they were to find ways to carry it on. [[The president calls.]] The government's giving it away. It is to the government to be accused, not those who have tried to pay for their quest through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u24	A respectable president. It's not gonna happen. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson provided that he is a brave senator, particularly to come up here and discuss matters that must be settled, after keeping the council entirely for days of unnecessary discussions of Congress on the law on electrical lines that the government will conclude this morning that there is no need to set. I must also use this opportunity to dismiss the government as somehow stopped a bill to legalize the pension rights. It is also just the government's decision, that she was making some sort of bell food with this case. The assumptions that she herself laid for bringing the matter into the council were not to be met. She herself failed to handle the matter and to finish it. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson will only have to discuss this in the Independence Party and with the chairman of the Independence Party rather than us in a position of government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u25	A respectable president. I'm not happy that I have opinions here. The back issue is a very complex matter. I had signed up for a talk on the subject, and it will not be settled at this council. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and other members of Congress do not know how I would have voted on that matter. I haven't been able to speak yet. The same is true of the pension business. How amazing it is to hear the claim that the government's opposition to it has been thwarted! I almost think the government's side, like the rest of it. paritaprevir In addition, Árnason's visit to a budget committee has been even more successful in completing this matter than the representatives of the greater part. [[Foreground on: No.]] Up to it. [[Foreground on: No.]] We encouraged a meeting with the Ministry of finance. We had a conversation here in the tunnel. To argue that the government's opposition is not true at all. I think it was a case that almost all classes remained on to finish. It's the government that decided to retract it. Maybe it was the right thing to eat. [[The president calls.]] I don't know about that. But I hope the next government will finish that case. There will not be a better future to help in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u26	A respectable president. This was what I discussed in my talk earlier, about the hidedown of the fine ladies. This is where they now come and show that the government had helped to delay the work of the council and get in the way of something very important to Icelandic society. I listed a few cases earlier; dressbacks for losers, they've gotten in the way of people; in the Baking case, obviously. Of course, a new situation has arrived after the decision of the decision came into force there, but if the council had joined together to finish the matter, the decision would be completely up to date in the north. It is written, not on these governments, but on the political opposition that has been involved in this matter. There were particularly representatives of the left green and bright future members of the Committee who participated in that work, so this remains. I'll encourage you to talk to me about it. That's a very important matter. Much of the student's attention is focused on its completion. I demand that the matter be discussed in detail and given for a good time. [[The president calls.]] I did not accept some token agreement in that regard. Then I reiterate the matter of Brefuding, which is of great importance to the settlements of Brefjörður and to use this remarkable natural resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u27	A respectable president. I don't think anyone who's been watching Congress can reach a conclusion other than the fact that the government has tried to keep matters from being discussed and finished. I think it would be very strange to try to say something else. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson knows the whole thing Back into and out, and he covered it well, and there were other cases. But I hope, because it's so important that we finish and use the window we already have to equalize the pension rights between the population, that since it doesn't succeed now, we'll finish it by the end of the year. We don't have any more time. I'm not going to scribble with one or no one who's to blame. That's a perfect detail. But I'm glad to hear that here comes why. Councilmen from other categories and indiscriminately. A position of authority, saying that they want to do so, for we have to do so. On the other hand, what is right is right. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said it's kind of strange at best to come up here and say he didn't get in the way. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u28	Mr. President. Very close: It's such a play that's going on here that I'm really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, I'm just hoping people will see through this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u29	A respectable president. I hope you don't mind. A speaker becomes his wish. Of course, it can be called a bellat, the discussion of a song on Backka. This has been done in many hours of discussions, day after day, that it is absolutely vital that the Council continue to legalize matters in order to prevent decision - making. A rather unfortunate legal method. So once the case has been here for days, the same board of directors decides that there is no need for this bill that is constantly claimed to be absolutely vital. There is a review of how this case was handled if there was no need for these laws. It is their own conclusion that the bill must be retracted, that is simply no need for legislation. There is no point in accusing us in the opposition to government. It is just a mistake to bring in a case that he himself feels does not need legalization at the end of the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u30	Mr. President. There were two financiers in the last government who started the pension business. The issue of government has been filled with interest. However, it was found that the premise of the government was so limited that only officials and government officials or those associated with it provided declarations that caused large employees to drop in pieces and drop back on the case. In other words, it had to be done much better because of the ignorant failures of the government. As far as Backak was concerned, it was the first government that raised that issue, but it was that government that screwed it up during this last day of the Council, the Backka. There is no way to blame the government for this. It was a decision made earlier this morning of the highest order. Government. That's where it's at. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is supposed to be looking for him, that's all. It was his ministers who made the decision to postpone back back, not the government side. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u31	The president is not very perceptive in fashion, but he notices that tie - vision is sharp. 4th, including Reykjavík Precinct North and 6th. Southwestern U.S.A. is very similar.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u32	President. It may be evidence of the drama that members of the council here claim to disagree are exchangeing the same volume. I think we should just let this relax, get back to work, and stop pointing out others who are guilty of matters known to be responsible for the government. Now we're going to finish the council, and we're going to do it properly. Let's just stop arguing here about something that everyone knows about. I must commend a president for how he has tried to handle matters that have come from the government and how he has listened to my parts and tried to be president of the entire council. It's time to end, my friends. Let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u33	A respectable president. It's a little comad to watch. Government parties scratch into the back of their last record because of this blessed Bacca language, which was now simply a mistake from A to Z when it came to planning and protection laws and so forth. I don't know exactly who's to blame. It is simply not that the government has some part of the program for this blessed assembly. Rather, it is a dignified president, and it is a fine work. I suggest that we carry on with this work only, and this conversation with the greater part, to teach us less of the share in the failures of this terms. Didn't the Panama leak teach us how to do it, too? It seems that everything that has failed is our fault. Let's get our shit together so we can finish this assembly. Because it's getting a little boring.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u34	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to go that far to teach why. paritaprevir You must Ásta the Guðrún - given daughter of Helgadóttir for all that has gone wrong here during this most ideal time. [[Take it up: Most of them.]] But I'm not going to commend her for all that has been done well during this terms, which, of course, is much more. However, I have to make comments to the word that at least not everything that was possible here during the last few weeks has been tried to put a stone in the street of this Backkay language. Of course, the government situation has not been a factor, but a certain part of the government opposition has been developed in the matter, as people have observed both last week and the preceding week.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u35	Mr. President. I come up here to say that in the left of greens, we support this matter, count it a positive step there in combating tax fraud, the changes that have been made in case of the problem. The Economic and Business Committee for improvement on this matter. But this is only a positive step, I believe that much more will soon work on these matters. But I would like to celebrate the fine solidarity that has been achieved with the steps being taken. In particular, I'd like to mention new regulations for the thin self-finance that come into this bill now and we'll vote for it afterwards. They are in line with a bill that I have repeatedly submitted for this terms, since 2013, and now we are about to vote for it to enter this bill. I'm especially happy if the Allied has agreed to handle this matter, i.e. loans between tax laws in order to avoid paying taxes at profit. I think that's a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u36	V.E.G. President. Here we are paying votes for government action against tax fraud, mainly for changes in tax laws to further the tax system and the aim of working against tax reform because of ownership in low tax countries, and for the response of the Icelandic government, which is part of international cooperation in this field. I'd like to mention a legal definition of fixed employment centres specifically, the limitation of interest charges or measures against the thin self-finishment and ideologies of risk management to efficient customs monitoring and toll pay. I also want to thank you for the quality and need of cooperation with financial and economic experts, from where the bill comes from, and with full reason to thank a committee writer for his patience and careful management. Eventually, there was full solidarity. The Economic and Business Committee for all the changes proposed here, and I thank the Committee for its cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u37	President. Piras support this whole mind - set step, and it can be said that our policy on the thin self-finance is taking root in legalization, which is a delight. Since we are considering ways to control tax collections in the tax industry, I would like to say that we were truly encouraged to spit in our hands when this became the largest data leak in history that took place a while ago and that we should thank the informants who helped us to be informed about the importance of making sure that something would be done in this legal process. I'd also like to thank the Committee for responding to indications of the 17th, 18th, and 21. in the bill, which was to provide public access to databases and provide enormous access to information without carefully evaluating the need for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u38	A respectable president. I agree with that, here's one good thing that's come out of the Panama Canal, we blow to the deal with tax subsidies, tax evasion. I'm also glad that it left the committee party a bit controversial a chapter that had committed to customs, tolls, some form of premeditated evidence. There was a solidarity on the committee to take it out. I would like to encourage those who accept the administration after the election to now use the tools that are put into their hands by this bill to take from them on tax evasion, tax evasion. It's simply a social lesion. We see clearly in the daylight light that international big business uses thin self - payment to turn natural taxes out of the country, overindulging itself. I believe that what we're building on this bill should be used to take advantage of them, and that company is not somehow immune to natural taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the council, and especially the members of the committee, for holding this matter very carefully. This case, which is about to become a law, is headed for it during this council, shows that the government responded in a certain way, in a way, in a way, to deal with what has been a long problem in Iceland and will continue to deal with, which is tax fraud. In this matter, we also provide legal guidelines on the thin self-imbursement that has been discussed, not only in the history of this government, but in the past government and much, much longer. This is the government that proposed certain actions, which are then replaced by a solidarity at the council. What a cause for joy that is!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u40	A respectable president. I am especially happy that the emphasis on changing transport plans has been made on several things. In particular, I would like to mention an additional $1 billion for maintenance from what was previously expected, and as we know about the condition of the road system, it is not unnecessary. I'd like to mention the road in Forest Beach, the Road of Doom and the Road of Axi. I'd like to thank the Committee especially for the extensive cooperation that involved these changes and the highest. The prime minister to him through the survival of these happy smells, as well as the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u41	A respectable president. What a joy it is to be added to our understanding of the transport program of just less than 12 billion! These less than 12 billion have a mission all around the country. What a joy it is to be here now, for example. It's downhill road. We're about to start a new flight in Akureyri and we're going to have a lot of important projects all around the country. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar that we finished this case by Prime Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. The interest of the Ministry had been virtually zero for that time. What a joy it is that we are finally going to add to this great sect! It's good, not just for my district, but for the whole country. I'd like to thank you both more and less for a good partnership in the entire election season. We got this on the final meters, and thanks to that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u42	V.E.G. President. As we have seen, this process of transport and the changes made here involve a number of improvements in these areas. We realize that in recent years transport has not received the needed attention. We haven't quite recovered from the savings that occurred after the collapse. Suggestion at the highest. Internal Ministers and changes to the environment and transport authorities make a great deal better. Of course, we realize that many projects are waiting, but we have been able to achieve a good solidarity over a number of important assignments that we hope to accomplish well in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u43	A respectable president. Just like others, I want to be glad that we're putting up with the Allied Transport Plan, even if that's certainly hoping later. This is a very important case, and in fact, the proposal was not made that the council did receive much parishion, so it is not fixed. The metal party has, in fact, suffered for a certain lack of ambition throughout the terms of the season. But there is a fine resemblance that we here at the General Assembly will agree on the outcome. I would especially like to thank you for a good job on the committee, that we share a considerable amount of money in maintenance. That's important. I would particularly like to thank the Committee for this and the greater part for agreeing to my share's proposals on Swamp Road, Doomsday Road, and especially on Axes Road.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u44	V.E.G. President. I'd like to be like the rest of the group here, thank you for the fact that this case is in the final meters. I'd like to mention a few things in particular, and I'm glad we're putting an extra $2 billion into maintenance and moving it from 6 billion to 8. There is an enormous interest in our transport system all over the country. We add less than 12 billion to that, as well as a new development in the Navy, 3.6 billion, which will be a massively improved transport to the Western Islands. I'd also like to welcome special emphasis from the Minister and Environment and Transport Committee on ports, but there's a substantial improvement in waterfront funds. The ports of the country must be held. Finally, I welcome the reduction of one-by-one bridges. It seems in this program that the number of single bridges will be reduced in the next two years by eight to ten. [[The president calls.]] In the years that follow, we need to continue on this course.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u45	A respectable president. It's a real joy that we are here at last finishing a transport program by 2015-2018. It took her some time to enter the council, but she did it. I'd like to thank you for the work being done on the environment and transport committee. I especially want to rejoice that the smaller part was heard about putting more in repairs and maintenances, as well as that the road to death is fixed, for it is a dangerous road. It doesn't take much for an accident to happen there. The road system is the basis for the tourist stream in Iceland. We need to make sure that it is safe. We do so only by improving our ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u46	A respectable president. I am very happy to see here an algreen tablet, an approved change form of five million dollars. K. every year for the next two years, in order to initiate preparation and research for Eelfjörður. This has been my struggle for many years and the fight of many Westerners. I just want to let myself at this moment, all dressed in my heart, thank you for this trial here. These tunnels and these urgent transport reforms and high traffic security issues have now been implemented with the approval of the Parliament. I'd like to represent the Westerns and the north side of the West to thank the Allied Council for this hearing. Finally, during the final half of the assembly, I was succeeded in making a program of public talk. Thank you, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u47	A respectable president. The main feature of this discussion is the solidarity that has already existed in terms of the need to build tunnels on the land, link the settlements, expand the work area. It has been suggested that this has been important, especially for women who have made good use of this transportation, that tells us of the University of Akureyri. We are not only paying votes for the research of funerals between Skulls and Eelfjörður but also giving the word for research and design of terrestrial soils between Siglusfjords and Rivers. We know how important the Rockies were for the Mountain and Siglud fun. The tunnels we've already voted for, between sailing ground and river, will be equally important. What a joy it is that the council approves today!
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u48	A respectable president. I speak here at 3rd. for changes to bill support for purchase at first apartment. The change is reversible. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason proposed to the 2nd. The point is, if that change does not recur, there may be uncertainty about the interpretation of the legal bill, and there may also be considerable uncertainty about the expense that may be lost to government funds and rural society. So it is important that you follow the headings and the contents of Article 3. The bill will be restored to its original condition and these factors will stand as they were originally in the government bill. [[Up front.]] If the motion I recommend here be accepted, then the contents of Article 3. converted to its original order, thereby preventing uncertainty in the interpretation of the laws and costs of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u49	A respectable president. That's a new proposal that's starting from what's happening. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurvensson is very sorry for me. People take credit for what reason allows them to do. People borrow that they try to borrow as little as possible and try to minimize their financial expenses. This has been stated in the data of this case, including The basis for this loan that the U.S. Congress plans to oblige, real estate loans, is the most expensive loan on the market. People are being offered to use their additional pension savings to pay off the most expensive loans on the market. I'm simply saying, "Stupidness like this is useful to one of the stakeholders, it's useful to the stakeholder called banks, financial institutions." It is a world of Congress that takes power beyond what it has to say. The intention of knowing in this way is far beyond what any reasonable one can offer. So I see a carrier and a what. A senator and those who vote for this coming vote are here robbed of all sense. In itself, it is good to know and have a count on it here at the Hall of Congress. I'm also going to ask the Senate here and now one thing. About Three years were passed tax on banks and the stock market of banks up to 0.36%, nearly 0.4% tax on the bank's branch. Now I'm going to ask people here if they know why a pension loan has about 0.4% lower than banks' loan? That's because the so-called bank tax is just not paid by the banks, it's paid by borrowers. Here, a variety of national economists give direction for the rate of growth. I simply say that various types of senators can be viewed, e.g. such as this bank tax approved by 62 votes at one time. In that case, when one is opposed, I'm sure there's something wrong with giving a vote, then reason tells me that there's probably an unscrupulous vote, i.e. that we are maintaining growth as consumers pay when the goal is to lower interest. This is the result. I simply say, "I ask a body of Congress now to be governed by reason, and I ask a world of Congress to let the borrowers decide." The creditors can enter financial institutions, ask for their loans, and get the fees that are convenient for them, and do not matter whether the loans are so unconvinced or not. How Would You Answer? I don't know them. They are not listed in the lyrics of the Law. But it seems that there are a number of forms of unscrupulous loans in which financial institutions determine interest or guess. It's been found that these irresponsible loans are about that. six percent higher than the loans available, since the variability due to inflation is measured objectively. The General intends to have buyers use their additional pension savings to please banks with this foolishness. I'm asking members of the Parliament to be cautious in this case and to submit these adjustments. However, it was only reasonable with what was approved here yesterday. I repeat, this foolishness is of no use to anyone except the banks. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u50	A respectable president. I had thought of supporting you. A senator in the experiment that he received agreed on to the 2nd. that this incredulity on the part of the government was not limited to one particular type of loan. I am curious to know if this had not been discussed specifically in the committee and would like to ask why. A member of the Parliament on how the discussion would have taken place within the committee. It is only possible to consider a practical example during the past year because following the collective rise in terms of great inflation was expected in Iceland. Well, now that last year's growth has been at least a year. 1 percent higher than the perps. So the people who have taken securities loans during the past year have benefited because they are merely a test of inflation that controls the ideals, as it were. A senator correctly points out, banks have been able to raise their unscrupulous loans in order to develop ties and belts and defend themselves against any potential inflation that has not since become available. And the people of the country who took an unscrupulous loan a year ago, the cost has already been paid. Therefore, I must ask: Is it balanced with someone's attitude and shown by the commission that it would be reasonable in some way to give the banks in this way to ordinary people, and to prevent people from defending themselves for one - sided, random interest - making banks by taking financial loans? How far is this strangely unscrupulous campaign against insurance that really chooses to go off the side of the board?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u51	A respectable president. Most of it as a dog. paritaprevir Árnason Arnason's age asked questions, not really questions to me, but questions to other members of the committee. My position was clearly evident in that committee party with a new proposal made yesterday. Actually, there was little reasonable debate in the committee on this matter. The matter was taken away from the wind. The chairman of the Committee, Sigurjónsson Siglejonson, and his colleagues who signed this intelligent committee, and I am totally free of charge. I can totally agree with that. A senator said about interest rates over a year ago, and I believe that the Council can't be responsible for such thoroughness as to direct people to the most expensive loans there are, it's just not necessary. I simply say there is a measuring of people's will. It is only the loans people have borrowed from real estate, to their credit. It turns out that the majority of people are taking the so - called securities loan, where insurance, inflation, the merit factor is measured as objectively. It's just none of my business. I just want people to get their loans. It's very simply what I'm asking for here. The cost of this matter may indeed be someone, but wait a minute, should we go to one credit plan? Where are we? I'm part of the Independence Party that can't accept this kind of overmanagement and overstance in a loan market. Let's let people take normal loans. I repeat that most of the questions have a problem. A senator is required to refer to a greater portion of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u52	A respectable president. I find this very interesting from what happened. Senator. There has been no comment on the fact that material reasoning or reasonable reasoning is behind the binding of public pay on certain loans. I must say, just as it is very serious to me, if you plan to slip in here any changes that will make it easier for your banks to use ordinary people on the market with one - sided interest decisions and prevent people who choose to protect themselves against these bank decisions by taking long security loans gain the same trust with those who abandon themselves to the power of the bank. I must ask, "Why do you think so? " A senator that a greater part of the committee has been performing in this way simply to make people abandon banks with one - sided interest decisions and prevent people from having the same position in official support? We do not pay interest offerings just to those who take disloyal loans. We pay interest benefits regardless of loans. That's a very big decision. I must ask you why. A senator how he can make it work and whether he feels that it can go over his head with a party that doesn't even trust him to tax sugar but will then decide how to borrow people. Is it really acceptable for people to be opposed to their will as a result of cheating loans? Because it has proved to be the last year that the vast majority of those who are borrowing now, new mortgages, when people have the choice of both, people are borrowing in perniciously. Are these people all stupid? Is it the Independence Party's opinion that they're all idiots?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u53	A respectable president. It is the easiest thing to answer the last question. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll the son of Árnason. People are smart. People make a wise, informed decision. Regarding the good Party, the Independence Party - for whatever reason. A senator is welcome to, he is a great hold in most fields I have noticed, but there is now another story -- I believe that this can in no way be compatible with any relativism of the Independence Party, and not really quite a party but a single deportation of the country called a forwarding party. It is quite simply so that during the discussion of the committee, it was impossible to find two basics in financial science, which are a crop of fruit and money, the real interest of loans by form and/or a pastime loan. There's some new science in finance, which I call Summit, where the sum of the loans is added, so obviously 25 years is more favourable than 40 years old. However, humans do not attempt to measure the basics of today's modern - day growth. So over a period of time, there was no reasonable discussion. I'm just going back to my committee opinion. I believe that it is fundamental to lend a loan trade that people are allowed to make their informed decision and that they will receive tax economics according to their power of reason, they are equal. And even if people borrow from the Faeroe Bank in Danish crowns, they have nothing to do with this synagogue here, this congregation. If the person wants to borrow in Danish kroner Bank, it's only fine because there's a free flow of capital and also free flow of credit. A respectable president. I will finish my speech with these words until a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u54	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss the change proposal to a bill for support to buy at the first apartment. The motion is at the 1787 Parliamentary Council and was moved by the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurvensson. The 2nd. Yesterday's case, we voted here at the council Hall and agreed on a second-minute change proposal. The Economic and Business Committee. The proposal turned to Article 3. The bill suggested that the word "disrespect " be taken away in two places, in text and heading. This may be a negative reaction to the use of terms - as indicated in the speech of a·gaʹpe. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son, who represents the opinion of 2 smaller parts - and then encouraging saving regardless of loan form. There would have been more discussion about this aspect of the committee. First of all, there's a bill that's submitted by the highest level. Governments have not established an assessment of the effects on countries and societies. On the one hand, the 2nd issue includes the 1st issue. 2.g. The bill suggests that the rights of the court will be authorized to set aside additional fees as a payment on unsecured loans. There, by the change we agreed on yesterday, there will be legal uncertainty due to references to this team in Article 3. This change in the 2nd smaller portion we agreed on yesterday changes the nature of the case and leaves legal uncertainty. We must react, I think, and thus inevitably support the change in plans as well. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson recommended earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u55	A respectable president. The discussion on this subject on the committee made no sense. First of all, we agreed to accept the bill with a slight change, but this change could not be discussed, i.e. Protecting the balance of loans. If the motion I made and was approved yesterday creates legal uncertainty, it is only possible to resolve the legal uncertainty. My objective was clear, i.e. to be equal between loan forms and not allowed to do what is right. With the most expensive loans available, modern economists begin to manipulate their country's households. I'm just asking men to try to look after some sense. I said earlier: There were some in the chapters, discussing the Committee, robbing any sense. I heard that talk was what I was talking about. paritaprevir Willum Þór, the son of Þórsson, was burned to that end; she was robbed of all intelligent knowledge. We're here to help people buy their first apartment. Hv. A senator has nothing to do with the individual's loans. Nothing. That's what it's all about. I'm not going to have any more of my words, though I have a considerable amount of time left.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's answer. I'm not going to reason on his good purpose with this adjustment proposal that is about to promote saving regardless of loan form. They cannot be disputed, they have every right. But at the end of a general and an opinion, I appreciate that the purpose of the bill, as it is suggested by the government, is to encourage savings and a faster production of property in its own home - that these changes may be proposed. A senator will change the case. There's an assessment of how this bill works in the state and community. A revised assessment of this would have to be made. I appreciate it so much that this is how we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u57	A respectable president. Once again, men are robbed of every sense. There won't be any property paying off on loans. There'll be a debt. You have to start discussing terms of sense, not as grizzly as they have been done here. When the loan is paid, the property remains stable, but the debt goes down. A clean substance called a head chair may change. It was the objective and purpose of this bill on support to buy at the first apartment. It's only a matter of fact, so you can pay on the so-called price-proof loan of the same amount of money that you might pay on a so-called indiscriminate loan, i.e. It's not easy to pay the price as quickly as possible. Maybe more. The reduction in debt is faster than in those equal credit loans, which is certainly right to be light and comfortable for people. But going to legalize the possibility that people may take the most expensive loans to make something called property - now wait. Possessions are relatively slow if people are paying endless interest. I can't have any other words than the ones I've been hammering on, let's just appeal to one thing, that's a smart loan. He is borrowing from an informed decision. Let us let him enjoy it if he thinks that so - called securities loans are more favorable than those loans that have been called disloyal but also be assured - let's just let people choose. If the legislature has gone over here, try to make things right. A respectable president. I'll finish my case for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason for a very good answer in this regard so that this discussion is much larger than the one that is being discussed in this process. It turns to the difference between insured and irresponsible loans, and we may analyze the types of loans that are available to people on the market, including those who are investing in housing. Let me utter my reasoning. I will not be cutting my tongue at the mouth. A senator for the use of terms in financial studies, saying: "Frequently pure possession.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u59	A respectable president. I listened attentively to what was happening. A senator who has generally been attracted to his reasoning in some way did not understand or understand in this amazing speech. If the goal of these changes is to promote more property production, why is it that people are being discriminated against on the basis of loan forms? Why is there no need for support? The subsidence of a head seat is the same way in securable loans and insecuritys? It's possible, like what's wrong. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason pointed out earlier. You can pay back a secure loan more quickly. If the State's aim is to borrow rapidly, why not just offer public support to be granted whatever form of loan, as long as they pay quickly? To another. What is the physical basis for binding public support, down payment of one type of loan? It says that it cannot be affected by both species because humans have not calculated the effects. Who would think that a single loan form would be affected by a government fund? There'll be more on that loan plan. The Ministry of Economics does not know exactly how they will eventually be involved in cost assessment. No more than the committee can do. What has to be here is that despite choosing something else, the committee needs to support what is so dangerous with the loans that vast majority of people now choose in an enlightened way. Is all these people an idiot? A senator, everyone who's buying an apartment right now and taking oversecured loans? It is also that if a person is going to use the government to promote discrimination against the citizens, he must have some physical logic involved. We put alcohol and tobacco under pressure because it is dangerous. What is the substance of the argument that inflatable loans, which have been less expensive during the past year than disloyal loans, are so dangerous that there is a special reason to tax them? What's the logic of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll, the son of Árnason, to the contrary. For this change, I now thought about it only that it would even lead to a bigger discussion than it was for the subject. Of course, members and members of Congress distinguish political issues regarding market loans, securities, and irresponsible loans. My opinion is that insurance is nothing but interest. Well, credit is only to the borrower's credit that he needs to put on the products he sells at any time. But there's only a much larger discussion here. The logic. It's a very detailed paper with the bill. That's what it calls "wow." paritaprevir Will Bjarnason Summit, when driving the price-proof interest back to the head chair and saving it for a long time. Then these loans behave differently, this equal loan. They spread over a longer period and therefore accumulate. This is logical in a series of articles. That's why this is a variation of the subject. The objective is to encourage the taking of unsecured loans. It's just that way in the bill of the highest. Governments. With this adjustment in mind, we are going to a new goal. That's why it changes the bill. That's the logic of this case. I think we've had a much larger discussion than the material we're looking at.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u61	A respectable president. It's just not right. Senator. He avoids answering the question I asked here clearly. Like what? paritaprevir Will Bjarnason has pointed out that the loan of inflation can be paid faster. So, if that is the objective of the government, why is it not possible to tie the support of speed - paying loans? What I hear, however, is what I hear. A senator may be saying that he is above his head just against the inflatable loans and the advance party is against them, that it's just a bad case for a man to borrow. In this way, he says that all the enlightened people who have borrowed from each of the last two years are fools in the vast majority of securities. He is also telling us that it is justified to give government support in order to force people to borrow more interest from banks than they had to. I'm asking why. Senator: Did the Commission talk about how this is going to go on with the European Economic Code? Government grants are being given to banks if the government is going to repay the most expensive bank loans. It's easy for banks to charge people for high interest. Product differences are being made. They're giving banks a better fighting position, for example, by being able to lend disloyal loans, than an apartment loan that can only lend insured loans. Where is the Commission's discussion of the government developer in these matters? A respectable president. This is a clear question, and I want clear answers. If your goal is to pay off loans, why is it not the same if people pay back as quickly as they can if they pay back unconvinced loans? Why is this difference in production product? And on the one hand: With what reasoning can it be? A senator said that he knows more about the best personal loan markets in which people themselves have made decisions over the past few years? Third, could he argue that it is better to take more expensive loans, since infidelity has been more expensive than securities during the past few years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll, the Árnason of Avengers, to answer him. This discussion is far beyond the subject of this case, i.e. the recommended modifications, where the committee returns with the modification proposal. I'm ready to talk to it about what. A senator. He has gone into much bigger and more extensive discussions. On the other hand, I want to make comments about that language, silly language, and such. I would rather not participate in such a discussion. Clearly, we differ in the market budget, and what I and others in the forward category value about insurance. It's just that there's a lot bigger discussion than the exact adjustment proposal that took place. A senator and a boy. The head of the Economic and Business Committee spoke here. I would like to discuss that suggestion at what. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u63	A respectable president. This has been a very strange thing to do. It was originally indicated to extend temporary contributions for the use of loans, but it is shown here in a kind of teratogenicity based on the opinion of a so - called expert committee. This so-called expert committee has a lot of screwed-up records and end-ups that I'm not going to trace. I've only 15 minutes to talk here. The key point is that any comparison between payment procedures is simply meaningless in the opinion of this so - called expert committee. You see, there are some pretty decent experts here at a meeting in a credit trade. This case was never discussed with me, who has been teaching finance trades for 15 years and also working in a financial market for 25 years, resulting in a total of 40 years. It is strange to hear it here at the council Hall that there is a political attitude toward loan forms. Wait, political views on growth or growth; political attitudes about growth do not take place. I made it clear, in fact, that men could hardly have control over interpolation and recovery, but when it comes to multiplication and sharing, which is based on growth rates, it is like some whales. Senators are failing everything. I simply say that in this matter, I want equality to be guarded. I'm not taking any political position on loan forms. It may well be that a person wants to build his own house by taking a running account loan, which is in the absolute rights of the world. It may be difficult to apply to the house, but it can be done with an insurance note if it can be shown that the value of running credit is used to buy property. But what about that? It doesn't matter. I've never taken a political stand, it's a method of objective measurement of the factors that interest. A series of courses, e.g. of real growth, of risk of inflation, of risk loss and of several smaller factors. These three factors are important. Happily, the loss risk is remembered, for any loan trade is expected to be paid for by the borrower. The growing and insurance laws that have become available today are inhospitable. They are required to deal with some fundamental factors, but the fact that someone is not allowed to take a success loan because he does not have foreign possessions, that is just none of our concern. If the person wants to take a successful loan and he has more faith in foreign currency, that's just fine, I'm not gonna forbid him. What I'm asking for here is equal. That's all I want. No matter what informed decision they make, I ask borrowers who decide to buy their first assets. Talking here about the denaturization of a situation, I may have made a mistake in making this adjustment proposal. In a hurry last week, I missed two places at 2 gr. This bill stands at a loan of uncertain guarantee. This may be because there is insufficient lecture on the above evidence. Those who helped me and me just missed this. Then there is nothing more to be done than to pay for the loans that have been borrowed in the past 25 years are more than half to one percent more favorable than the so - called unscrupulous loans that are not disloyal. That's the problem in people's understanding. People are being deceived here by the wrong name on credit form; and rather more than those who take the so-called price-separable loan as I have said, by objective measurement. For the objective measure, it is impossible to take a political stand. I've heard people talk here about what language to use. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson said here at an open meeting in the Economic and Business Committee that he didn't have a place to live, he didn't eat it. Look. In fact, a key to living is the sacrifice that is needed for a person to live. This is made according to a set assessment in which people will register their food prices and other consumptions, and then the mortgage will be calculated by certain rules that the European Union's Office is always trying to reach, but the wonderful effects of several candidates were observed in the European Union, where they specifically measure the Office of the European Union. I wish that this bill, as it stands now, will be fixed and elected. But I just pray that men are not declaring that there is a political view of loan forms. It's a strange politics. I've never understood that political bitch. A respectable president. I'm not going to have any more of those words, and I'm just going to leave it to the senator's common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u64	A respectable president. You cannot ignore the discussion presented here. I'd like to start by saying that I don't support the bill that's here for a vote, for support in the purchase of first estate. I don't think that's going to reach the purpose I think there should be, i.e. that if we are going to support young people buying at the first apartment, everyone should sit at the same table, to the extent possible. In the bill, a tax charge that people can get to buy at the first place comes from the income they have. Thus, those with a higher income can obtain more discount and, as it were, more government grant than others. That's the main reason why I'm directly against the bill, as it shows. I believe it is the same as the other actions of this government when it comes to paying discounts or using the government's funds. This is done in a way that benefits those who have it better than the others. That's the main reason I don't support this case. On the other hand, this case is presented along with a change in terms of growth and insurance; I think that was no. 817, but this case is No. 818. It simply forbids people, if they are 35 years old, to take a 40 - year loan because when they are 35 years old, they may not know if they want to owe longer than they are 65 years old. I carefully reviewed that bill in a speech and I'm not going to repeat it here. But it was the political promise of the Progress Party before the last election to eliminate insurance because there are people who believe that insurance is a special political issue, not a unit of how prices change in the country. In turn, this bill puts people in line to buy their first apartment and strengthens the more money they earn because they can save more. Then, too, they should be directed into what the Agency says is bad business, and that is an irresponsible loan. But it has been found that over the long period of time, it is an unscrupulous loan, and it is shown in my committee's article "No. " 817, not good enough. They grow bigger than insured loans. That's what history shows. I want to quote it as well. paritaprevir The annual report Páll Árnason made this point: The view that irresponsible loans are more favorable than securities has recently been made, when people consider it further, has awakened to the fact that they are now taking much more responsibly than perjury. Despite all the discussion. You see, you're absolutely right. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason says that insurance isn't political. Price insurance is a litigation. If a person wants to have some opinion of the language in which he or she is in that category, they do so in this matter. But this shows the folly of this case from a til Ö.. I'd like to reiterate that the reason I'm opposed to this is because it assumes that those who have it can have more support from the state than those who don't have it as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u65	A respectable president. I am moved to get involved in this discussion to explain my position on this matter of opinion and to explain how I understand all of this. I feel that this has become a little fuzzy and needed to look back into this song as it is available to help me understand what is going on. First, I'd like to reiterate that we in a short future have a dog's head against this matter that we've revealed by being on the yellow button. We can't support this. We feel that the bill does not cover its targets in supporting people who really need help to buy their first apartment. We believe this bill is meaningless. That attitude has not changed. But here's a matter of opinion. I'm basically in agreement with what's going on. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son, it's ridiculous to expect to bring a witness to the borrowers when it comes to insured or disloyal loans. In many ways, these are two sides of the same coin. We have to face the fact that as the economic regime has been in Iceland in recent decades, and maybe it's a little far in the country that we're going to make it to the surface of a permanent stability, though it's certainly a racer of No. One, two and three, has greatly benefited the credit for borrowers and has guaranteed them against high prices. If we ever make it to a level of lasting stability, the insurance will be over. The enemy here is unstable. I'm just saying we don't have to go to law school because we're trying to make sense to people on this year's visit whether they're going to be disloyal or insured. I am totally against the other bill, which was recommended at the same time, to limit the right of a particular group of people to take a secure loan to 40 years of age. I don't think that bill makes any sense. On the other hand, I feel that this is a major flaw in changing plans. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son, who was approved here yesterday, was to represent only 3rd pars. It is where security loans are taken out; however, the whole environment is 3. specified in Article 2. and it specifically discusses disloyal loans. Thus, a change would be needed. a bit much if you want to take out this distinction between indiscriminate and incriminate loans. Then I feel that it is important to correct, I don't know if there is a misunderstanding or a misunderstanding in my conversation, that in the bill, people are not expected to take the additional pensions into account on the price-settling loans. Two. b It is said that tax can be paid on the head of a loan guaranteed by a deposit at the start of the store. Of course, that is also true of insurmountable loans. So, there is nothing to rule out in the bill on insurmountable loans. I don't think it's the right thing to say here in the discussion, I think I've heard the right thing, that it's something to be courted by people who decide to borrow money that's insured. That's not true. There's a warrant for paying off on the head of securities loan and the insured loan in the bill; there's also a specific authority to pay off the payments on the unsecured loan. It is based on the argument that credit payments are usually higher than credit rates. I agree completely with that. But I think it's a little weird to be giving the banks a government scholarship by the state's going to pay off payments on the expensive loans. I would think all of this should go out, with the presidency that I don't support this bill, but it would be the very best to have it simply so that the collected benefits can be spent to buy at the first apartment and/or to include the fee on the head chair of a loan guaranteed by a bet at the first apartment. Period. There is nothing to offer to pay off, especially on irresponsible loans to try, on very vague political grounds, to direct people into loans that are more expensive in many ways. The bill, however, requires more comprehensive modifications than what. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason proposed that it be as I have described. I just wanted to say that I think it's a misunderstanding to say that the plan will not be useful to those who take securities loans. It will. And then this principle that I don't think it's wise to pay off the unscrupulous loans in particular, thus distinguishing between insured and irresponsible loans. I don't know if I have anything to explain this case, but I felt the need to describe it, at least try to experiment with it, how I understand it. Still, my stand and my future remain unchanged. We want to recall from this bill, and we're not going to get any more involved in this interesting debate between the members of the Congress on lnsecure and Insecure loans. We think the bill is basically meaningless.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u66	I'm just coming up here to review what we're paying votes for. In other words, we are undoing the change as a matter of course. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason proposed to the 2nd. The point. If that change is not reversible, there may be uncertainty about the interpretation of the bill's law, and there may also be considerable uncertainty about the expense that may fall on the state funds and businesses. That's why I suggest we call back that change. That change would have to be different in shape if she had reached her purpose here yesterday. But if this suggestion I recommend here is approved it will be Article 3. transformed into its original form, thus preventing uncertainty in the interpretation of the laws of government costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u67	A respectable president. We're here paying a vote for a bill for support to buy at the first apartment. This is a matter in which the government's obvious policy of making common use of taxpayers is being made clear by different income groups. The result is that they gain a higher tax rate than the earners and thus a higher percentage of government funds in housing support. This is not the first case where there is an increase in discrimination and inequities in society. This is a problem - building bill that has been criticized in a number of ways. It is critical that housing markets are not addressed as a real problem. The members of the VG stand up against the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u68	President. When it comes to taking overall care of the situation, it needs to be taken overall. Pirantics do not view this matter as an emergency in the lives of very many young people when it comes to getting out of parenthouses or from a rented market in certain areas of the city is unacceptable. That, in fact, is shown to be the case. the business plans that it would have been nearly to address the problem, which is an unfavourable remuneration of the younger generation. It would be better to set up an action plan on that subject rather than add another support system to the housing sector, as stated in the Commission's review. I must agree that there is a lack of collective surgery here, and we are in just some small-dose medicine for the group that may need to know how much this is said. That's why the Piranians are going to lay down against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u69	A respectable president. This case solves no problem but continues the government policy of bringing money to those who are in least need of a housing market, such as all its actions in the market. If you want to support your first buyers'apartments, you will find that the growth reform system is the most suitable way to provide support for those in need of it. Of course, it is tragic that we are here to confirm the support of the 1,400 you have. K. in a month's pay of special government grants to offer higher to apartments they can already buy. It's so easy to get everything together that here the administrative point is trying to wind up from the reasonable change adopted yesterday at the instigation of the year. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son is not showing favoritism when he receives this official support based on his choice of loans. No, no. This is where the superintendents are going to move on and arrange matters so that those who choose to take a high - price loan that is much of the buyers today will not receive public support, while those who are willing to give themselves over to the banks and take unsecured loans in order to pay the banks even higher interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u70	A respectable president. As I have described before, a bright future has been open to designing ways for people to use these savings, the extra pensions, in different types of savings. Here's your basic thought. On the other hand, they make clear on this bill that this resource is of primary value to those who might claim that no special assistance from the State would be needed to get a roof over their heads and be very useful, if anything, to those with little income and who have real problems getting a roof over their heads. That's why this bill is useless. That is why we cannot support it. That's why we have a dog's head in this case that we're showing with the yellow button. On the other hand, if there were any other actions that would be remembered in addition to these provisions, people might be able to buy their first apartment, which would be specially designed to deal with those with whom the predictable earn little income, then the matter might have a different attitude. But that's not the way it is, so we're still yellow in this, and we're also about the changes that have been discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u71	A respectable president. It's a pleasure we're finishing this case. We are to help young people find housing. The system that has already existed has encouraged people to make a debt. It is absurd to listen to the parties here to say that discrimination depends on how much government power a person gets. That's how it's been in the growth reform system. [[For example: Well?]] Governments have encouraged young people, especially those who speak against them, to make a great debt of debt. We're turning around. We encourage people to save. [[For example: Is that right?]] Let's help it have. It is interesting to see certain politicians and political parties fighting against it. It'll be remembered. This is where socialists expose themselves completely. [[Up front.]] They do not want young people in that country to have their own home. That's why they vote against this. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we support this great deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u72	V.E.G. President. This is a very positive bill to discuss support to buy at the first apartment, which I support as a whole. People are short - lived and buy their first apartment. Of course, the bill does not solve all the problems, such as the lack of supply in a housing market, but this is certainly a very positive support. I'd like to, in view of the discussion, that there's a difference between the loan forms point to the B- team 2. It clearly states that pricing can be arranged on the head seat of a loan guaranteed by bets in the first apartment. It's right there. We also vote for a follow-up of a change proposal which is inevitable to go in and blow off the second-part change we agreed on yesterday, because it lacks assessment of the impact of the proposal and denatatively alters the objectives of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u73	A respectable president. It is remarkable to sit here and listen to the government's opposition to talk about all that this government has done in housing is of the evil. Four prime cables were provided at the spring meeting, in general apartments, rent rents, and other prime bills from the highest level. Social and housing minister, in good terms from the welfare committee. To speak as if nothing was done for people in the housing and rented market is natural, respectable President, I'll let myself use the word, empty shit. The so - called senators have not only been in a council hall and have been observed. [[Up front.]] This bill, however, is designed to give people who use their special savings as an opportunity to pay, to save, for the first time, for their first payment; second, in order to pay on one of two, insured, or inaccessible loans. Therefore, there is no difference between individuals and those who take securities or cheating loans. The bill has a clear, decisive profile. [[The president calls.]] This is a progressive step, a step that allows young people to save and pay on their first apartment. I rejoice in their manner of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u74	A respectable president. The growing aid system directs government support to those who need full support because they have moderate income or low and small possessions. This new system of Independence Party directs government support to those with the highest income and best in the community. That's justice on the head, a respectable president. We should not spend tax dollars to support those who are well - equipped but use them to improve the living conditions of ordinary workers with moderate income and less income and those who do not have property and who are able to save themselves in a housing market.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u75	A respectable president. There have been many comments about members of the council, such as those who doubt and even oppose this bill as socialists. Hv. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þórðarson said that men were socialists if they had doubts about this matter. I won't take it personally. I expect... Yes, I'm not taking this to myself. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I guess we're in the same category as it's not socialist party. [[The president calls.]] Some of this bill, however, is that either the bill is neglected or that it discriminates its citizens in the way that the class I belong to cannot accept. If this matter is neglected, there is nothing more to do than to pay attention and make adjustments. [[Up front.]] But the goal is clear, to help people buy their first apartment. There's no disagreement between me and that. paritaprevir Guðlaugur, son of Þór, the god of Þórðarson. [[The president calls.]] But if I'm a socialist, I'm sorry, a respectable president, I'm not a socialist. [[For example: It's an honorary name.]] [[The point is, you're a bit of a candidate.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u76	A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to draw special attention to one team in the bill here for payment. It's undergone various circumstances, under the topic range of 2, the Ministry of Education and Culture. This is 50 million. K. a donation that is determined, if this is legal, to be used for the grammatical project, i.e. Preparing to take the next step toward being useful in the new technology world. I'm gonna allow me to predict that of all the fine things in this room, it's an extraordinary subject, although the amount is not very high, what is to be done, and what is most important to those under consideration, in the long run, as the Icelandic, our tongue is to the pledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u77	President. I just want to draw attention to the fact that here is a preliminary law on the law of foreigners against whom we tortured. That's the definition of safe countries. It was, for example. so that foreigners could be sent to secure countries where the death penalty is death - dealing and would soon be defined as security if you were sent back and feared for your life. I think we need to take a very careful approach to the earth when we use such definitions in a world where great changes are being made and removed. I hope there's no such preliminary action as you don't have the right to charge a ruling. If we receive groups of refugees or refugees, we need to be very careful. [[The president calls.]] I believe there needs to be a lot more discussion about this sort of thing here at the council than it is about this particular case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u78	In response to this vote, I feel that it is important to express my understanding of the matter. I don't think it's a convenient bill and putting such special rules for some reason, there's a lot of applications from certain countries for asylum or protection in this country. I find it very important that when it comes to applying this provision, which will be expected to be temporarily legalized, to return people to their homes, it is only if it is absolutely obvious that there is a non-fiction application for protection. If there is any reason why the individual may be applying for protection, he may not be sent home. At this point, I asked the Committee, and I received confirmation that it was the understanding. But the key is, of course, that the lawsuit continues here. The right to seek justice is not being taken away from these people even though they are sent back to their homeland. I just wish it was perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u79	V.E.G. President. I just want to say that we're not making any changes in the law that's about a secure kingdom. This law applies only to the year when the new alien law will go into effect. Here we are taking as little steps as possible. Nevertheless, it is of utmost importance, and I thank you for the understanding that the matter is receiving here at the council. Of course, we discussed the subject of a law on this subject when we took the so - called non - Israelite butt through the council earlier during that council, in March of that month, I recall that the evidence was discussed on the World Committee and we have received visitors because we have not been able to attend such meetings in the Committee now during this month.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u80	V.E.G. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list a greater part of the Department of Health for a bill on Change in Social Security Act, Social Support Act and Laws for the Elderly, with subsequent adjustments. It's a simple improvement system, a changed pension age, and more. The committee discussed the matter and received a number of visitors to a meeting, as well as reviews from several sources. First, I'm going to study the bill and discuss the work of the welfare committee in the processing of the bill. The objective of the bill is to support the elderly for survival and to encourage job participation, the simple social security system, and to add their interaction with the pension system, as well as to increase support to the very low- or no income to support the population of elderly people who have non-weapon tax reforms. If the bill is achieved, relief groups will be united, and the number of them will be reduced, so-called vacation limits will be removed, and calculations will be simplified. The bill is aimed at dealing with the challenges society faces because of an increase in the percentage of older citizens of the population and the prolongation of the average population. The bill suggests increasing the flexibility of the retirement process and the beginning of pensions, creating an incentive for the elderly to continue working on individual levels and abilities, as well as the rise in pensional age by 3 years over a period of 24 years. This will be expected to set up an experimental project in cooperation with a nursing home for a new arrangement, including so that nurses in nursing homes keep their pension payments but pay directly for their public living there. The reviewers and visitors of the Committee were mostly positive to the whole bill and particularly to the changes involved in the simple system, including together, and a motion to bring about a special extension as a social aid while entering a united team, a pension. Then there are some managers who express their satisfaction by calling out a dollar for a dollar. Nevertheless, the committee received indications that the committee considered appropriate for further inspection. Make some adjustments to meet them. A respectable president. I'm here to review those articles and keep reading. It's a review of the National Insurance Agency on the 3rd topic. 2.g. it shows that it is very important to make a well - informed decision to start a pension so that they can take advantage of the opportunities in these changes. The Agency therefore stresses the ability to ensure a sufficient amount of individual information to candidates and that they will be given sufficient time to assess information before deciding how to start a pension. The Agency believes that it is important for you to withdraw your application without it affecting the right to increase the amount of pension. The Agency also considers it important that although the payment of a pension has taken place, the applicant can still cancel his or her application and repay his/her first payment. The majority agree with these comments from a insurance agency and proposes a change in wording. The Committee's review of the bill gave indications of a vague wording warrant for paying half of the pension, but it is essential that sensibilities start taking half of their pensions from all the financial funds they have earned in order to allow at the same time the use of a half of their pensions within the social security system. So more part suggests a change to 2. That's where the bill is. That's when we're at a vacation market for the earning of a pensioner. The bill suggests changes to the social security system in terms of pension. An enforcing system assumes vacation limits, and it has been thought to complicate the system that the same cut-off target does not apply to all income, regardless of their origins. In accordance with proposals made by the Commission to reevaluate the social security laws, this is not expected. As noted in the comments to the bill, there is no chance that income will be taken into a changed system to simplify the system, but at the same time it is suggested that the money of nursing will be affected by the same without regard to the types of income involved. Thus the bill assumes that pensions will drop about 45% of the pensioner's income. A lot of discussion has been made about the importance of having a vacation market, based on employment but also on earnings in general, regardless of their background. It is evident that their interest groups in this issue felt very important that sensibilities could have some income without affecting the money of pension, and this was shown both in the bill reviews and on the committee meetings. After a considerable discussion, the more part came to the conclusion that there will be a cut - off goal for all incomes. Thus these views will be taken into account, although considering their targets for simplifying the social security system in the bill as well as that amount of income money may have more pensioners than are available to those who have a job. Thus, since cost has been paid in terms of paying off income, it is expected that a pensioner may have 25,000 bills. in a month's income without affecting the amount of pension to be reduced. It is a generally voluntary goal and does not matter whether it is income, pension payments, capital pay, or possibly other payments. Sets the extra item to change the 1st mg. Section 6. The bill of matter. Then there are bills owned by a guardian. In the 9th. The bill assumes that compensation and payment should be paid into the account of business banks or savings owned by creditors or by the postmortem accounts owned by his guardian or his manager. According to the National Insurance Agency, there is a lack of authority on payment on a trust fund that is in accordance with existing projects and security on payment projects. The Agency claims to have emphasized that unless there is a estate in the case of a businessman, payment will always be made. The majority agree with these statements but consider it important to keep a warrant for paying the bills of the deceased. Adds the extra item to grant compensation or payment to the bank account owned by the tip of the cashpayer. Then it's about prisoners and provisions. The bill presents a change in the wording of the 3rd wording. 1.mg. 56. g. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes. In reviews of sides, prisoners, and other interested persons for improvement in prison affairs and corrections, criticism was shown that by this change it would be legalized that allowances would not be paid to microchips who are saved in prison unless there are special circumstances. This goes contrary to the original wishes of the legislaturers to use the same rights as pensioners who go to hospitals. The change would reduce these individuals' means of distribution from 58,000 bucks. down to 12500 bucks. During a month, the Society does not consider any objective evidence to be true. At a meeting with the Society, the amount of day - to - day prison money was last increased in 2006. The majority agree that total reexamination is needed in the case of disability and sensibilities in prisons and is therefore not ready to cut their rights anymore. So the majority suggest that 1 1 1 1. The bill will be removed. Then we've come to the section on Social Security Insurance that goes into 300,000 dollars. from 2018 onward, according to collective labour market insurance agreements. The bill suggests changes to the social security system in terms of pensions, but specific increases in the combined amount of money are not provided, although it is suggested that they become added to one reformary group, a pension. The reviews, as well as the committee's meetings, were critical and considered their stakeholders in matters of this matter very important that there will be improvements in line with the development of a labour market. In his report to Ministers on Social Security, the review Committee of the Social Security Act stated that it was normal for the pensions to be increased in accordance with minimum wage, but the committee did not recommend a specific change and was 69.3.g. The law says that the sum of the money should be raised in any way, not reviewed in this phase. Therefore, the bill assumes that the improvements in social security will generally increase in accordance with the 69th gross. The law. The committee covered his meetings with details on the subject. Emphasis was made on the importance of spending with those who keep one household in line with the insurance policy of the labour market, but the insurance will change on May 1, 2017 and May 1, 2018. The majority of the data shows that this is also in accordance with the above - mentioned review committee of the Social Security Act. In accordance with the collective agreement of the Work Programme/Investments, and SA, it will be 280,000. in the month between May 1, 2017 and 3:00 pm. each month since May 1, 2018, the Committee examined ways to achieve this objective in terms of the payment of social security for pensioners. By 8. Law on Social Help, No. 99/2007, is permitted to pay a pensioner who is alone on the household business of so-called domestic work. The more part suggests that the above goal will be met by increasing home remuneration as per the bill, from 34,126k. at month 48,662 per month. At the same time, the amount of nursing and household replacements are expected to be increased by 7.1% starting on January 1, 2017, such as 69.g. The law assumes. This ensures that those in the nursing home alone who don't have other income that will reduce money gain 280,000 dollars. month since January 1st, 2017. It will be added to the laws that require improvements to be raised in accordance with requested 69.g. The law of the law will ensure that, on January 1, 2018, sensibilities who keep a home alone will get a combined pension and a home worth of 300,000 dollars. During a month, they will have no other income that will reduce the amount of money. The decrease rate due to other revenues will remain unchanged from the proposed bill or 45% but will be 11.9% at home instead of 7.5%. System change expected by the bill does not include energy-induced social security systems. The bill therefore does not require changes in the laws on disability and disability. In spite of this, the greater part believes that fairness is meant to provide disability as well and that they do not have to wait for the changes in the social security system, for disability improvements, to be seen to get that rise. As a result of the cohesion of a team of reformal classes, a new pension, special replacement is paid only for microenergy pensioners after the law's execution. Therefore, suggest that the objective of micro-organization will be met by increasing the criteria that provide specific replacements according to 2 mg. Count 9. Social assistance legislation is being made up of. Thus all improvements are increased by 7.1% according to the 69th grade. from 2017, but for maintaining homes alone there will be an increase of 280,000. per month. Furthermore, improvements are improved in accordance with the 69th grade. Social security legislation 1 January 2018 will also ensure that the maintenance criteria of those who keep their homes alone will be 300,000. per month. The majority suggest several changes to the bill in accordance with the above. Then it is a provisional law on the affairs of the elderly. In the 18th. The bill is expected to legalize the elderly, No. 125/1999, with subsequent changes, a new provision will be added to make it possible for a minister to appoint a team to be implemented and to establish a research project in cooperation with one or more nursing homes for a new preparation of residents in nursing homes. The European Union is involved in this work. A review of the relationship shows that it is considered that there is a need to add to the provision to improve the improvement of the environment for the requested procedure, i.e. use of intermediate rent and, on the other hand, alimony, e.g. food, etc. The relationship points out that according to the European Court of Justice, remuneration of services needs to be backed up by a recognising legal authority. The majority agree with these comments and suggest that wording be improved according to the Community's review. Taking into account all the above statements, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document, i.e. Tue. 1791 on case No. 857. This is done at the General Assembly of October 11, 2016. Under this opinion and these adjusted proposals, outlined in the panel. 1791, write the storyteller Elsa Lára Arnardóttir and why. The members of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Óli Björn Kárason, Bármá, the Konráðsdóttir of Congist, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u81	A respectable president. Although I do not disagree with the objective of this bill, I stopped the extra supplements that are given to individuals who live alone. I think it's a little special to pay attention to people if their spouse is dead, we're talking about old people or pensioners. I understand that it's more expensive to be alone, to keep a home alone, but why isn't it just one flat rise for everyone, why are you raising this one team above others, and then not equal? What is the answer when it comes to doing so? What is the argument behind it? I want to hear it from what I'm talking about. A senator and to learn a little more about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u82	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Make an effort to gain the answer to Ásta's Kingdom, the Guðrún - given daughter of Helgadóttir. It is true that the elderly live alone or keep one home receive 280 of you. K. up and up to 300 up. K. On the other hand, we need to realize that the system change for those who keep their homes alone, and of course for those who live together, has a positive influence on the interaction of other resources from pensions, for financial gains, for employment reasons. All individuals will get better out of this new system, or those who don't have any other income that is more than 450,5500 you have. K. every month, so that all individuals get better out of the system than before. These are important steps, one of the biggest steps that have been taken to improve the social security system for a very long time. In this case, a greater proportion of welfare committees have decided to respond to calls from include: The old citizen's national relationship. They have described their joy with these important steps, called for the approval of the Allied Council for the change. Then all you have to do is keep adding to the system at a new assembly. These are important steps, however, and they meet the high cost of single homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u83	A respectable president. That answer simply did not answer my question. My question is simple: What evidence is there that a certain person's home is more suitable than others? What is the argument behind it? It's a very simple question. Because I don't sit in bed. I don't know the discussion that took place. As a result, I feel that it is worth the effort to come up here and ask why. A senator, so that I can better understand the underlying grounds. Of course, I understand that people will come out well of this, but the question is, What is the basis for raising these household chores above others?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u84	V.E.G. President. Thanks again for the counter-reguage. As figures, articles, and other factors illustrate, a home is far more expensive than being with others. In addition, data show that those who live with others often have a larger income, since often one person with a much higher income from another fund than a person alone has to rely on his own forwards. We felt that it was a vital step to meet the worst in the system and raise their domestic needs, that would be an important first step. Then it is important to continue to contribute to this party, as the present government has done during this terms, and we will do so if we continue to be authorized to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u85	V.E.G. President. I recommend a board of members with a revised proposal for changes to the social security legislation and other laws on the memory of the share of the welfare committee. It's true that we represent the United States, representing the left movement, a representative of the Bjart's future, as well as an audience of Pirata, who is doing this together. It is important to remember, when discussing social security, that this is an enormously important development system for tens of thousands of Icelanders. Changes in this need to be well taken care of and beyond with a background diagnosis. There has been a lot of work to be done in this system change and, in fact, this system has been revised for less than ten years, and similar suggestions were proposed four years ago. How disappointing it is, then, that these four years have not been able to negotiate with the microenergy donor's stakeholders so that the system change here for the payment of a pensioner is not also in line with microenergy pensioners, and they continue to have 100% share reduction in part of their payments. It is also about this matter to say, even though it was at work or was involved in committees for years, that the bill came very late here in the council. Besides the fact that it didn't reach the disability donor, it adds no advantage to the poor - cut pensioners. That's very reprehensible. The workforce was not initially submitted to any dresser improvements to match the labour market. It does not have to be surprising, for the groups of these committees, four political parties here in memory of a section at the General Assembly, have consistently proposed that social security be paid for disability and older citizens raise according to collective agreements. The majority here at the Parliament, the Independence Party and the Agency, have always rejected these changes of our lives; lastly, they rejected the retrospective financial security system to May 1, 2016, so that the ideal pensioners kept in touch with the ideal workers of the labour market. After the bill was highly critical of the aspect of the case that led to the worst, this was put forward by the majority of the changes in payments and we have in the memory of the suggestions that are much more righteous than the one of the objects, and we presented them at a special press conference yesterday. A greater proportion of these proposals are to comply with the terms of collective agreements at about 280,000 p.m. Minimum pay in 2017 and 300,000 dollars. Minimum payments in 2018, but when you look closely at these promises, the independence party and the forwarding party are pretty drossy. I'm here to review the main difference between our proposals in the smaller part and the greater part. The majority will, in accordance with the premium of budgetary funds, raise the social security spending by 7.1% so that those pensioners who are fully paid social security and who live with others will receive 227,000 dollars. every month instead of $22,000. However, we contribute a 13.4% rise so that those who live with others, both poor and elderly, will receive 241,000 dollars. That's nearly 14,000 bucks. The difference between this increase is that it does not increase the gap between those living alone and those living with others. In our proposals, the pay also goes up to 220,000 k. Next year and then $300,000. In 2018, but this increase includes a 13.4% rise in all classes, so we are not increasing the value of the subsidies that are more severe. It's complicated because it's a complicated system, but in simple terms we suggest that the pensioners get 14,000 bucks. More than a month, we suggest that the increase to 220,000 and 300,000 be achieved by much less. Because home satisfaction as a pensioner is now going to get into a pension if they live alone, about 52.5% because of other incomes. It's a high decline rate, but the majority of the object is going to raise it by changing it to 56.9%. Now I'm here covering numbers and percentages of a complex system. It may be the problem with this complex system that it is easy for those who have not been guided in politics to throw dust into people's eyes by just mentioning numbers but who are not aware of the wrongs involved. That's what I ask people to remember, because it's a bit of deception in the greater part. Here, too, a special family tax is being placed on the pensioners who live with others. I'd like to state that after a great deal of criticism in the offhand market, there is a change in the development of more part at $25,000. Free income markets for all other incomes. We believe this is a step in the right direction and support the adjustment. So here we are in 2. The bill was dealing with increases in pension age, flexible take of pensions, a chance to take half of pension, and a changed age for righting work in the system. These changes occur because the number of older citizens is increasing as a percentage of the population in Iceland, and the health of the country is improving. For an increase to 70 years, there are two things that we in the smaller sections of criticism. On the one hand, it is that to the commission, the increase to 70 of the 67 - year - old age age may be a thoughtless proposal. It was noted that older people are living on a job market, and they need a somewhat relaxed change in their attitude until the number of employees do not end their careers on unemployment, and this increase will encourage them, increase in pensions. It also shows that after 60 years of age, the incidence of disability increases rapidly; according to the nature of the problem, we are more likely to lose our ability to work with age. Here is a fine example of labor workers, workers of various kinds, trademen, certain classes, sailors, and cleaning persons; medical staff are one of the classes that suffer from disability because of hard work and physical stress. It is noted that this change is unpredictable as to the magnitude of the rise in biofuels. The effect of this increase, therefore, is unclear. It is also another problem, which is now a major problem, that Iceland's Common Association points out that a bill of changes in the US Pension Fund, which is based on an agreement for a change in pension rights, will not be paid here at the council. So this situation is very upset, and ASI strongly opposes increasing the difference between a pension age between public employees and public labour market workers, while employees in the general labour market are more inclined to work through social security. In the smaller part of the study, we understand the effort to increase the rate of nursing age, but in view of both the lack of analysis of its impact on work status, as well as the harsh criticism of the largest labor union in the general labour market, we reject the growing age of nursing. Then we come to a flexible retirement. It is certainly meant to give people more freedom of choice, that they can go to old age with permanent loss, or to delay and gain a higher pension when a pensioner begins at the age of 67 or 70. While it is also suggested that half of the rights, half of the pensions, which are not affected by other incomes, there are a number of problems in carrying out that law, and it is unclear how it should be performed and what the cost is and which groups will be most useful. We in the memory feel that such flexibility is desirable and that we should promote the freedom of choice by people who want to be longer or less in a workforce, that they can decide for themselves, but we believe that these changes should be in total agreement with changes in pensional age, and then we reject these changes at present. Then there is another aspect of Article 2. The bill, it all goes away in our suggestions, but it's a period of complete rights. It has the current law of 40 almanac years between the ages of 16 and 67 that the person must have lived here. The bill suggests that the recycling period changes to 18 to 70 years but remains 40 years, but there is no evidence for the rise in this age from 16 to 18 years. We drew information on the committee, and it shows that in most cases, the recycling age in the North countries will begin in 15 to 16 years, and we suggest that this change in law be eliminated. We support the change in my share's proposal to remove 1 1 1. The bill. It was our firm wish in our memory that we would not permanage the rights of pension workers sitting in prisons without the first complete inspection of their systems, for it is very difficult to get information about how prisoners are going to support themselves during the time of retirement. The circumstances of a prisoner vary greatly, and we feel it is unfortunate to reduce the value of a particular group without knowing what will happen to them. We welcome this change and will support it. A group is then expected to implement and establish experimental projects in cooperation with one or more nursing homes for a new arrangement and payment of residents in nursing homes. This is a requirement to respond to indications of changing the legal arrangements for the stay of nursing homes and the dissatisfaction of many with the present arrangement. We in the smaller part support this proposal, but we highlight the safety and security of old-time pensioners regardless of their financial situation. I'd like to state here that the representative of the left movement, the green supply, is warning this Article of the bill, and the adjustment of the section that allows rurals to collect services. The preventative conclusion is that no export has been made about the possible effects of storage due to the husk. The change may cause some nursing residents not to afford important services, as well as the impact of such changes on the management plans of nursing homes. This was the leading representative of the left movement ◯ green supply. We support the bill provided that our laws of change succeed, or we recommend them. Most of our adjustment proposals depend on rejecting the rise in advanced pensions, flexible retirements, at this point, even though we agree with our objective, and the change in age of recycling. There are a few changes that result from this. Then we have a 13.4%, not 7.2%, of a greater proportion, and we reject an increase in domestic damage to pensioners. Under this opinion, write in addition to the information presented here. Councilmen of Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, Ólína Þorvarðardóttir, the daughter of the Þorpheons. Pirata's audience on the welfare committee, huh? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is in agreement with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u86	A respectable president. I have a consistent question, and I had it here to see what it was. paritaprevir When it comes to what is called home satisfaction, Arnardóttir Arnardotttir is raised more than any other. I understand the need for improvement, but I don't think it's fair to raise this category above anything else. This is the class that gets the most impaired if I get it right. This is the one that's most likely to be affected first and most. I don't quite understand why they're going that way. I would like to know what the committee discussed: Why is this process gone? I want to know what reasoning is behind it. I'd like to know if there's anything I can do. A senator can explain this. I understand that everything in Iceland is expensive, it's expensive to be both invalid and expensive in Iceland. Old - pensioners may not be likely to have a large fund or working partner or so on the streets. Why isn't the increase just for everyone? Why is this one group taken out of parentheses? Is there a grammatical argument behind that? If so, who are they and they received sufficient publicity on the committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u87	Madam President. The answer to a question why. A senator is easy. The independent group and forwarding party are throwing dust into the eyes of voters and going on the cheapest possible way to reach their target by 280,000 bucks. per month. By thus increasing, they are placing a special family tax on those who live with others because they do not have the same total increase as those who live alone. By specifically increasing the household needs, other income declines are increasing, increasing their declines. It's showtime. So they can say 280,000 bucks. and 300,000 k, and have to pay as little as possible for it out of the treasure: for the poor are so great in this company. That's the way it is. I don't understand that the Specialist Party wanted to accompany this area of Independence, which increases the inequities of Icelandic society and the differences between pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u88	A respectable president. I just have to admit that both the answers I received earlier, and this one, here, makes me worried about working on this bill. The decrease rate is about to increase by 4%. Have there been a field-mutation analysis when this is the case? Is it possible to approach those places that follow-up documents in order to become better aware of the actual effects of the bill? As far as I can see, the bill's objective is to simplify the improvement system. It says here: "Education of the improvement system, a change in pension age, and so forth. " That's the name of the bill. Is the system really being simplified when we're raising one category of reforms that will cut out more? I don't know exactly what that is all about. I understand that living on my own costs more, so I don't mind that that the relief team is raising. But don't you think it's wise to take it off? Or does it make it much harder to reach the impairment rate? People need to be on their own. Old age pensioners aren't necessarily a very pick-up group. It was in opposition earlier that they are more likely to have large funds, and so forth, the streets or mates, and I don't know what could possibly help them with their income. But, for example, I don't take less money as a senator because I'm in touch. Why should those who live in poverty and pensions accept less money because they live together? I'm having a hard time understanding this, I just have to admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u89	V.E.G. President. Yeah, it's a little bit baffling. And domestic work is part of the social assistance laws and is to ensure the forwarding of private pension workers who have a low income. I'm sure I do. Of course, all of us are expected to increase proportionately when the financial insurance system is updating. With regard to stage photos, representatives asked for my share to be in front of stage photos. It was natural to do so much of a buggy. These refinements came in after the Council's work programme was canceled. We wanted stage shots, but they didn't come. It is also so that this government does not have much access to data showing the inequities it is creating by its actions. There's an uplink. Who wants to show a stage for it? Yesterday we received a complaint that there were no reports of the effects of correction on the value of housing loans between different income and property groups. Why would that be? Yes, because it would show that they were the most prosperous during that operation. Since then, this government has dared to decorate itself with feathers of the former government, which increased the equation in the country, using a number from the years that it was adding to an equation in Icelandic society. What a misdemeanor. [[Up front.]] It is spoken of as a general action, the actions of this government; this is only in the spirit of others; it increases here in balance.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u90	A respectable president. We're finally talking about social security bill here. You don't know if you should be happy or sad when it comes to it. The one standing here on a welfare committee who has participated in discussions about this system. I'll just be happy to admit, though it's not a simple task, that I don't understand or understand in this system. I don't think I'm the only one. There are an amazing number of people who do not understand this system. The more you listen to those who pretend, not to pretend to know, but to know, and to know the most about it, the more confused you get. What I may be happy about is that there is more money being put into this system now. More money is being donated to older citizens and disability. Surely, that is something that we can all be happy about, even though the situation is that not everyone in the community is happy. It doesn't seem to settle for this bill, which is a shame. That's very sorry. As far as I'm concerned, 11 years of work has been done to try to change, simplify, and fix this system. There are about three terms. These terms have been held well for another hundred committees working on the change. Yet, the Corporate Community went out. A respectable president. I don't know how to handle this. The result of driving the Commission when the bill first came in was that the worst in the system is not getting any relief. No one. You ask: What's going on, if that's the result of all this work? The results of the Commission and the rest of the work over the last 11 years are that most people will not be able to recover. [[Flmrh.: This is wrong.]] It's wrong, says the highest. Minister of Social Affairs. [[Flmrh.: You know better.]] No, I don't know any better, it's just the situation. They were not to raise a dollar the worst. [[Flmrh.: Wrong.]] Is that wrong? No, that's not wrong. [[Up front.]] [[The point is, why don't you just come up and say something?]] It's just the experience. I see that older citizens write in magazines and blogs because they don't like it, they don't like it. I don't know. All changes, either 1%, 2%, 10%, or anything in this system, add more billion to it. It's very expensive. I wondered how to handle this and how to handle it. I don't have the answers. Not unless we have to clean up a lot of the system and let everyone pay taxes, for example, and get more money from our resources and things so that we can run a good welfare system, but it must be the goal of a nation like Iceland to make the worst of them live and decent living so that they can live, go to a doctor, find some entertainment. It doesn't seem to be. This is not enough for today's invitation. I'm not going to go into this bill anymore. Hv. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Inggadóttir went over it, changed our proposals, and so on. And what? paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, an executive of the case, reviewed their share in this matter. But I think there must be goals, and it's a little strange that we need to go back to it in the next term, to appoint probably committees to work in the social security system. Still, we've been working 11 years on this. But it has to be that the pensions of social security should be based on the Haust assessment, as Björgvin Guðmundsson says, who has been president of the senior society. I don't know him personally, but he cares a lot about these matters and says on his blog this week, with President's permission: ▪ According to Iceland's Habitat Research, singleness uses just as much 321 you. K. per month of expenses (mean spending) That's without taxes. That's equal to 400 of you. K. a month before taxes. That's the same number as 246 you have. K. a month before tax paid by an insurance agency to single older citizens and micropunchers. In other words, the Department of Insurance pays the bills of single older citizens and microchips 154. K. less for tax per month than for the Hausp assessment of the Habitat. It tells me that there is a considerable need for us to be offering people a decent standard of living. I certainly don't know how to do that, but it's clear that we have to do it somehow. We can't offer this to any one of you, and we're talking about 4 of you. The older citizens live with this vote, the worst vote. I have received phone calls from many older people who share their lives because they cannot afford medicine or pay medical expenses. It is not a good witness to a nation like us, that not everyone here can live with dignity out of life. I think it must be our goal, those who intend to continue here at the council and achieve a track crew and those who come in here, to fix this. So that all of us live in decent terms, able to live independent lives, such as disability, have a roof over our heads, and can live in peace and harmony in society. Clearly, more money is being put into this system. We are to rejoice in it. That, though, is a step. This is a faulty chicken step, or henfet, says Ellert Schram, a former senator, who has let this matter matter matter matter become of great concern. He says it's a defective chicken foot. Maybe he's right. But I don't know exactly how a man will vote with this, but I still think and hope that our change will be accepted, and it is clear that this will go through. That's just a good thing. But this is not quite what they first put up with, simplifying the system and enabling everyone to live a decent life in Iceland. That's what all of us are supposed to be headed, both for older citizens and for disability. The poor things people experience while trying to win - one man contacted me and other senators and sent us a letter saying that he was sorry that they were taking the 1,300 off line. K. The number of connections per month. He could have used it to work in the summers, an older citizen, to improve his income. Now it's taken away. I don't know what the explanation is. That's better. It is now aimed at increasing the employment of older citizens, giving them a flexible retirement. There are plenty of seniors in Iceland who can work much longer. But that must be the motivation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u91	450 you've got. K. higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u92	Higher?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u93	Four... or under...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u94	Okay. Me and what. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir is talking here at the Hall of Congress. Maybe you can't do that altogether. But anyway, I don't know if I'm supposed to be happy or sad, unless both are. I'm willing to admit, and I've told you before that I don't quite understand. I'm having a hard time understanding this system. It's so complicated that only the best men can understand it. Somebody said there were two men who understood this in Iceland. I'm not one of them. That's for damn sure. But I hope this may be agreed, and this will be a step, a little step in the right direction, but it is quite clear that we must do much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u95	A respectable president. I just have to admit I don't understand it either. But I haven't been sitting on it either. The welfare committee. I haven't even been in there as an audition agent, which is a bit special. We piranha are so-called "canvas." I've been on most committees anyway. What I don't understand, however, is that after three years of sitting on a social security committee, a committee member of the General Assembly does not receive this information or explanations on the system, e.g. in this change, how it will be affected. Isn't there a broken pot somewhere? I understand that a smaller section of the Committee asked for some field-of-view analysis on this. Is this because the council's situation is not good enough? Is this something that we need to make up for? That's really hard for me when I hear what I'm saying. A senator who has sat on this committee will come and admit that he does not understand to a large extent simply because it is so complicated. The thought behind all the impairments and improvements may not be quite directly involved. I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding this whole thing. I think it's a good thing that you're updating, but you know what I mean? not because of those who are married to each other. I take no less money from living together. I don't know why you're supposed to do that. Is this something new? Has it always been like this? Why are we doing this? How does this really affect society? Doesn't this just cause trouble? What is the purpose of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u96	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It may be a bit serious when a member of the committee arrives and admits that he doesn't understand. I'm just honest. I've been on a welfare committee for just one year, so I haven't been all this terms. It's been shown that this bill came in late. I was nominated, but I did not sit in it because the deputy who was then on the welfare committee wanted to sit on it. Maybe it would have been better if she did, i.e. The deputy, would have been here to answer for this. But I have to admit that I think that there are better things to do with education and information about such matters. I know that if I continue to qualify as a senator, it will be one of my first jobs to take a course on this system. I've appealed to both the Bank of Environment and Human Insurance that I think that people who are best qualified for committees are supposed to do so, and now we often choose by committees of our interests and what we want to see happen, e.g. ... ona welfare committee. It's normal for everyone who wants a better welfare. I'm telling you every bit that I'd wanted an education and even a course on the social security system with people who do it all the time. But as noted earlier, this matter was late entering the council. There's more going on than just this, we've been almost in the campaign as long as we're talking about it. There's a lot going on. But that is not an excuse for a member of the committee to say it. But I readily admit it, and I'm not ashamed of it, though it may not be good, that I know this system not well enough, and I find it very difficult to understand it. Why this is such a queer, alimony, a household supplement, a spouse, a decrease, a dollar to a dollar. It's really complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u97	A respectable president. I really appreciate this honesty that shines. A senator, who has gained a good reputation for being a very honest and trustworthy man. What I then don't understand, I'm just studying this case to the best of my ability here at the Senate Hall, especially in pensioners. We're talking about people who've earned their whole lives and who've earned their rights here on land. Why is this a difference based on marital status? Why are these impairments really there? Have they not won certain rights? Is there a general sense of satisfaction that there is a greater increase in home remuneration at the same time as the decline rate is increasing among the members of the Committee? Now I'm not on this committee. I think it's so special that you're just raising your household needs to cover the gap to the 280 thousand for singles, not for ordinary older citizens who are living together. Not that it's necessarily something more ordinary. I simply don't understand that thought. Why can't all, regardless of their marital status, receive what would be the minimum wage for 2017? Why doesn't everyone just get 28,000? And possibly something on top of it if it's more expensive to live. Why this discrimination? I'm having a hard time understanding this. It has to be acknowledged.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u98	A respectable president. This is now one of the things I've often wondered about. Why on earth is it so complicated? When people have been working all their lives and paying for a pension fund and into the social security system, why don't they get crazy when they're old? People have already paid their taxes. It's a deposit, and then they have to pay back taxes when they get this paid when they grow old. I've never understood why. It is a natural requirement for the gray military and the company of the senior citizens in Reykjavík to have it intact. Is it freckle? Or is this just? I feel that if people have worked their whole life, they should get what they've earned. I explained earlier that one person had worked for 51 years with the same company and paid for a pension fund all his life. He got between 150 and 200 yards of you. K. a month from a pension fund. After I paid for it for 51 years. What is it? Then he received the compensation from an insurance agency that was needed for a minimum wage. The man then began working as a 69 - year - old bus driver and received a 1,620k. In time. If this bill had penetrated unchanged, he would have paid 38% taxes from this 1,620 k. And a 45% drop in pension. But he got a 277. paid before the moment. It was a woman, an invalid, who sent us a letter saying that she was trying to get $25,000 a month by delivering magazines. It rose, walking an hour a month every day, for 30 days, her salary about 1,000 bucks. 30 hours ago. It's one of those things that's so hard to understand. This discrimination, we are naturally suggesting a change in this with the discrimination of marriage partners and not. I hope it gets through. But, as I said earlier, everything that is done, each percent added, seems to increase the cost of billions. [[The president calls.]] It's an amazing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u99	Madam President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in social security law, which is one of the greatest changes ever made in the social security system for decades. I think all members of the council, whatever our number, must be able to say that this is a work being done when older citizens have been tried for years, but not successful. This alone is a special cause for joy, and for this, all members of the Parliament should rejoice. I'm also going to congratulate seniors if the bill succeeds. The bill is based on the work of the Commission at the highest level. In 2013 the social and housing minister was appointed under the leadership of the late Pétur Blöndalur and was primarily responsible for simplifying the system, making it more beneficial, understandable, and more righteous. These changes were to include older citizens and, on the other hand, older citizens' insurance systems, or pension rights. Sadly, it was impossible to put them in harm's way as a result of microchip. That's too bad because I'm convinced that because of this, the economy of disability has not improved in the same way that he would otherwise have done if a solidarity had been achieved to make the changes established by the committee regarding a simple system and the recording of a job assessment. I can understand, however, in part, the need to understand the need to be concerned about the disability and the invalidity of this system change, but it must be the next major task of the Parliamentaters who sit down at the General following election, to work on this system change, to simplify the basic system of micro-organism with the advantage of improving the economy and particularly the interests of those who have subsidied so that we can be proud of the support systems we have built up. Sadly, the present system is unjust, and it punishes microorganisms. Thus, changes and induction of the share-back systems of disability will have to be made, but this will never be any different than in cooperation with those to be enjoyed. It's important. The bill presented here focuses primarily on a system change involving the pension and the affairs of older citizens and social security and is, in fact, in a fine way, a direct result of a government policy. It is often forgotten, however, that the first act of the State Department of Propulsion and Independence Party was to reverse the decline of rights from 2009. It was the first job to care for a pension fund that reduced the basic pensions of old and disability candidates. Since then, there have been slow, sometimes too slow, efforts to improve the quality of both older and desperate citizens. This year, the cost of social security is likely to be about 2,27◯28 billion higher than expected in 2013's last budget of the last government, convergence, and left green. In addition, there is some of the greatest reforms that may be possible over the years in this system change and also in ensuring microsurgents comparable to dressbacks and older citizens of 10 billion or better, so we see an enormous increase in social security expenses. Of course, it is important that we employ money wisely because it is enormous. I want, with permission of the highest. For example, in the September 12 issue of Awake!, the president of the United States, quoted an article that Haukur Ingibergsson wrote in The Morning of September, as he describes the changes we are now about to make. He says, under the permission of a president: ▪ Among those who have decided on the bill is the Council of Elders of Iceland, which says: A Council of Israel celebrates a forward bill of social security change. The bill includes important changes in the increased rights of older people and the self - determination of older people, especially when it comes to retirement. The Council of Elders encourages the General Assembly to work on the bill to end this council, and it becomes a law. There's no debate that what we're doing is simplifying the social insurance pension system and making sure that just older citizens, but then as clearly as members of Congress, understand the system, so we don't have to worry about how it works and what it means to change individual aspects of the system. I understand that it can be difficult to understand, and at times it is even incomprehensible how things are put together and how the least changes are in the interests of an older citizen or an invalid. In our present system, we may feel that injustice is at the helm, where people are punished and punished for the smallest effort to improve their own interests. This is what we're changing when we come to seniors, and this is what we have to do when it comes to micro-piercing. That's very important. However, it must be kept in mind that any changes we make in the social security system, any changes that include simple and more transparency, must never be in violation of the main objectives of the social security laws. Of course, the primary objective is to be firm in the interests of those who fail so that everyone can live a decent life, living with human dignity, as we say in Skavelf. Of course, that's what the senators here are doing after the election must keep in mind when they take the steps to make the changes I think that all of us here must agree on when it comes to microbubbles. This link has helped me to recognize that there is another big issue waiting for the new Council. I'm sorry, but I was devastated. European Parliamentaries do not establish equal rights in national pensions. In September, that's it. The good news was that there was an agreement on a coordinated pension system where all wage people had a comparable pension rights regardless of whether they work in a public labour market or in the public. However, it did not take many days before the contract began to break out, resulting in our failure to achieve some of the greatest justice, which is the equivalent of the national pension rights. The problem, of course, is that in the coming years, the state's budget will have very limited resources to help balance pension rights, as agreed in the agreement, and that the bill before the General Assembly was eliminated. The window to achieve this justice and balance the pension rights is closing. I believe and trust that new members of Parliament will be able to get this justice through the council before a new year begins. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] These are the pledges I think all members of Congress should do before they come here to work at the end of the election. Madam President. I'm not gonna have this much further. However, I reiterate that what we're doing here as far as older citizens are concerned is an amazing progress. This is a system modification we've been trying to come on, hasn't succeeded, but it's working now. We can identify individual teams or some amounts of money, but this does not change the extent of the system change and should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u100	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for his speech. We disagree about things in politics, and we often have a different view of how to make things work, but I don't think there's any reason to question them. A senator is very serious when he says that he wants to improve the interests of a pensioner in the country, even though we do not agree on how to do so. I think it's important to start by saying something because of what you're doing. A senator referred to a committee acting on changes in the social security system, far in front of them. former, Pétur Blöndalur's, that is, of course, so when you're making a system change, you don't sign a paper that you think will make the situation worse and that the basic transportation system as a group in a more sensitive position will need to be worse on price. Of course, that's why I and others on this committee were not listed, but we had a special party with the Quantum Coalition. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who is very determined to establish a work programme, how he argues that the increase in disability, i.e. to achieve their implementation to 280 fars. A. K., if all of us are taken through the special progressives I thought we would all agree that we were very professional. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u101	Mr. President. I had the privilege of having just an excellent cooperation and enlightenment in the committee directed by Blöndal Berlandal, i.e. Yeah. A senator and I, where I represented the Ministry of finance. The problem, of course. It was the sincere will of the government and of the government to secure microchips, which are the choice we are making for older citizens. The problem faced was that because of the failure of the changes to microorganism, there were few advantages. We can debate whether it should have been done in some other way. Of course, I agree with the fact that the special forwarding is a rather enormous relief category, a cutback of dollars. Now we've eliminated that system from senior citizens, but we're going to take the step to the other group. I hope it works fairly quickly because I'm completely convinced that if you're working hard. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir and others will be exemplary in the type of work that needs to be done, and that will solve in a very successful way.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u102	V.E.G. President. It's quite clear that I would like to go anywhere other than that. A senator when it comes to improving the interests of disability. Of course, it crystals best when a more large part of a change is made. At the same time, social services committees are reviewed, and adjustments from the lesser part of them are made. On the other hand, the welfare committee. What I don't understand, and it's so hard to figure it out. A senator is serious about wanting to record a job estimate - something I'm not questioning, okay? A senator has spoken that way - don't you think we're getting into a pretty tough position by making the value of a much more special supplementation into the overall poverty payments, expanding the group with special support? Are we not making the next move, if we now decide to make up for it, more difficult if it comes to such a way just to bring a general rise to all the benefits and thus to keep the ratios within the system unchanged? Should that not be the point we have to step aside in order to change our system?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u103	Mr. President. There's no difference, I think. It will not be adopted, and it is an empty matter to talk about in my mind to record it differently than to jump up the whole system when it comes to disability. That makes us, for example. You know, putting the special supply into the micro-energy pension, it no longer cuts against a dollar, just as we've done when it comes to seniors, etc. Of course, this is a problem. If the increase had been inserted into other subclasses that were certainly considered, it would have been considerably more expensive, it should have been accepted, it would also have created a problem when it comes to the system change. We're in a hurry. Again, the most important thing in my mind is that a new assembly will immediately clean up with this work, and it will be cooperated and cooperated with those who need our help. That's what matters. I am convinced that this goal can be achieved when, during the first part of the coming year, if anything is meant by making the system change, making the system simpler, more understandable, and more righteous without sacrificing the interests of lost ones. I know we what we're doing. A senator agrees on this central point, and I am convinced that a successful solution can be found that all of us can take pride in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u104	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason gave an inspired talk on his joy of the grand changes being made in the social security system. Now I'm going to tell you what. A senator says that I have just returned from visiting a resident in Seljahömund. There I met an 80 - year - old woman who thoroughly knows the system and into it because she had worked in it, so she had calculated what this would mean for her. She did so on the basis of the bill as it originally came in. Yeah, for her, 500 bucks. per month. Then we're gonna have a snooze. A senator speaks of the tremendous success of this system change. Mr. Faithful. Believe it or not. A senator of his own when giving this speech? Second of all, she introduced her name. A member of our congregation for the thinking of theheavenly authorities in order to live with dignity. He said that the change he was fighting for and talking himself over is so that people can live with dignity. Counts 'em out. A senator, then, that a system such as the worst, sometimes no drugs, must deny drugs, even after these changes and other laws have been made here, is it, Mr. President, that men in the province call to live with dignity? No, I know the Thomsons, and they have a completely different view of life than those that show up here. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. I have to ask you what. A senator: Is he serious when he is moved by these enormous achievements of the government, which, unfortunately, have been cut off by what the Independence Party has also spoken about, to make the system a source of employment? He agreed here about one other category of reform that what men are doing to a job party. [[The president calls.]] It says everything on the corner of each other. [[Up front.]] Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u105	You got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u106	No, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u107	Mr. President. Maybe we'll have to have a quick table meeting, me and you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's angulation, so he can only understand the system. [[Up front.]] Then let me point him out, and he might want to recall that he was a diplomat for changing the social security laws that are similar to the ones we're doing here today based on the so-called Year Committee. [[Up front.]] What I was saying, huh? A senator is about to have us these changes to make sure that when it comes to older citizens, the decrease in a dollar will be history. We will make these changes when it comes to microorganisms because we do not succeed and are not able to meet up with the necessary structural changes needed to reach micro-piercs. As a result of these changes, much of the older citizens are being improved. They are primarily those with very high income that may be less effective or may be minimized. Of course, that's just as rude, isn't it? A senator, to try to ensure that the approval of those who fail is improved. But we do not worry too much about those who just have a great life and do not need any special assistance from our taxpayers common fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u108	Mr. President. I'm sure it's the highest. One who is an alert man with good hearing heard what I heard. Hv. A senator went as far as possible from my question of whether he felt that it was living gracefully in a way that offered people the opportunity to live on recoverys and sometimes does not have drugs. Is living with dignity? I understand why. A senator flees from such questions. Hv. A senator is clear in his language, which is easy to simplify. I don't need a table meeting with him. I just need to listen to him. Hv. A senator himself said that it had been added to microgamy by adding to special household chores. That's exactly what he doesn't want for himself, because there's a small buck against a dollar. It's professional. Hv. A senator has not only made his entrance to the council now but also once he has been here inspired and able to give talks that the Independence Party wants to build a system that encourages people to go into a job market. That's what training is for and how to work. That's what he wants. I totally understand. I've always followed that. But at the same time, there's a good time. A senator speaks of it as some of the grand achievement of the government of making changes that directly discourage people to do what they want, to get into the work market. That's what I'm talking about here. That's what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, I have to say it as if I have often admired it. Óli Björn Kárason's senator said that he was disappointed now and perhaps most at the end of his talk when this noble spokesman for the liberal Independence Party spoke here suddenly as if he were as desperate as the most brilliant.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u109	Mr. President. I understand very well the equal man. paritaprevir When Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson saw that in the terms of this government, the Foreign Government and the Independence Party, he is feeling rather uncomfortable, that in a year from year to year, the rate of disability and older citizens is improving. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] It's like that. Senator... [[Up front.]] Hv. Senator. If you don't listen, I'll have to take you to a pill meeting. [[Up front.]] It's like that, yeah. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, that's all right, too... [[Up front.]] Hv. Senator, it's all right from time to time to listen to the facts and the things that are right. What is right is that the improvement of the social security system will be twenty-five percent higher than when the government took over the summer of 2013. The daughters of Social Security are raising 25%. [[Up front.]] This is a fact. I know this isn't easy, and I know that you guys don't have to face the fact that here's some of the most likely dressbacks that the senior citizens have had for years. It's just that people can't share. But I'm also saying, we were also trying to secure the poor, with a minimum of 300 you. K. of January 1st, 2018. However, we still have to focus on doing more homework when it comes to those brothers and sisters who may be able to do only to a limited extent and some little or nothing. It is my challenge to those who attend the election after election to work hard and not argue about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u110	V.E.G. President. I think it's a big day today. We're taking up a discussion, and hopefully we'll vote on this big case on social security, which involves a system change that was indistinguishable to most of the people inside it. It is impossible to discuss this matter without remembering our dead partner Blöndalur H. Berlandals, who fought for this system change, and who played a major role in bringing this matter into the release of the International Assembly of Iceland. I met my dear partner just before he died, and I promised him that if he couldn't do it himself, he would do it, and that's why it's great to stand here and take part in the final payment. Now I've heard from the media that some groups believe that they are fighting for system changes and others don't. I don't think you're supposed to fight for system change only because of the system change, but take important strokes, change where change is needed, and the social security system is certainly such a system. We independents are proud to participate in this arrangement with our fine associates, hopefully from all categories. It does, however, obscure the fact that disability is not involved in the system change this time, but hopefully it will be finished as soon as possible. It is famous that the government introduced its means of improving the interest of the elderly and the poor, and this is our way. We're here, after the changes in the share of a welfare committee, to add 11 billion to the system. 11 billion bucks. There's a lot of money. I really hope that this case will be quick and well paid at the council, for it is an enormously improved and improved process for the elderly and invalids who have received the lowest benefits from the system, although, of course, older ones are getting more out of it because the system changes reach them fully. Dear President. I'm not going to have this further and encourage the entire body of Congress to stick together on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u111	A respectable president. We're here on social security laws, social aid laws and other laws on the issues of the elderly, with subsequent changes. It has to be said, as it is, that here we are accepting an enormously important case, as we have seen so many times, began with Blöndalur, the so - called Berlandal Committee. The committee was working for almost three years and gave us an important and excellent job. The president completed his reign, doing so with a spirit of urgency, like what he does. What a joy it was to sit on a welfare committee and get the case done there! A number of guests approached us to discuss this important matter. It was in accordance with the opinion of the committee that it was successful, and they expressed great joy and satisfaction with the simple process of improving, which is probably the most important aspect of this law, the most important aspect of all. For us who come back to a council at the beginning of the term and who were on the welfare committee, it took only a very long time to settle into matters and to figure out all the complications and delinquency that identify older people's salary from an insurance agency. I think it's the opinion of those who have discussed this matter that it has been successful in simplifying the law and making it easier for older people to understand it, to understand the pay bill, and to see what people are getting paid for being an older citizen. It was particularly satisfying to find the intense force that characterized the older citizen's Land Association, their adherence to this matter, and their constant relationship with us committees, their attention with the development of the case, and it was always very clear that the most important of all in this law was the system change, namely, that it would be the most important thing to do. I can't see any better than that. Of course, I am glad that by the rule of Congress, it will become a reality later today or no later than tomorrow. There may be no need for me to repeat all the things that have been said here, but I would like to agree that this is putting 11 of you here. A million. K., 11 billion, into this system to improve the interests of older people and the disability of the elderly. It is not possible to present a talk chair here and discuss these matters any other than to express a certain disappointment that the desperate in this country do not fully follow through in these dresser reforms, which are being achieved here, where they were separated from a discussion with the Micro-Lowing Association of the Committee on the Job Assessment, which is also so important. I have the best interests of disability, and I feel that the only thing I can do is to start talking about work assessments instead of microenergy assessments is a huge difference. I think it triggers the subject more than a microenergy evaluation. I don't want to talk down in this relationship, but I think it's important for us senators, professional lives, to realize that a great deal of these people are interested and that they want to get back into the job market. I feel that professional life in the country and government agencies should invite these people to the workforce for part-time and after hours of full-time work because it is important to give them the opportunity to prove themselves in the workforce, start part-time work, and move forward. Of course, for all those who accept pensions from insurance institutions, microorganisms, and others, the goal is always to work for themselves and their families by working at a job market and thus being able to support themselves and their families. It's always the most important thing. Of course it's going to be so, Mr. Honorable President, that everyone will never be respected. We will always have someone who will never go to the job market, and it is very important that we continue to strengthen their positions as much as possible and that they will live with the best benefits available to comparable groups. Therefore, it is very important that when the next assembly meets, as soon as possible, the Microcracy and the Statety Treaties will be met in a manner similar to those we are talking about here, and the desperate will not be able to live with the miserable conditions that will still be cutting a cent against a cent. Naturally, it does not pass through now because they were not in agreement with the total agreements. I give this tremendous importance, and I find it in the entire Senate and the people I address here at the council that it is the will of all to make it right as soon as possible. I wish it would happen very soon. We've been over anything 25s. K. For very many of those who are on the lowest scale, the average value is not that much, but for those in the lowest range, it is incredibly important. I say for myself, when these laws are approved and these terms become reality, the next thing we do and the General in the years is to reduce the percentages and improve the income of these people. Of course, there are many ways to do so, but I say: We are now taking great steps in righteousness by improving our terms. For me, this is a good step forward. We've taken many good steps in this terms period. We've increased the pay of older citizens, older people, and disability by about 25% since 2013. It was also the first act of this government to review the impairments established by the former government in the fall of 2009. Of course, the situation in the country was difficult then, but perhaps it was carrying in the tray stream to start by cutting off the pay of an elderly citizen of about 5 you. A million. K. every year when government funds were fired with about One hundred billion losses, perhaps not the amount to be rolled over, may have been remembered at the end of the day. Anyway. I think it's also important for us to follow up on the job program. As I was talking about, I think it's important that we look at other possibilities especially for older people and, of course, desperate people by making it more desirable for employers to take these people to work and see if it was not right to use the tax system. For example, insurance bills from older citizens, 67 years of age and older today, may be due half a price to drag these individuals into the labour market. This group is often the most important people, the people with the greatest experience, the people with the best knowledge, people we can't afford to miss out on a job market. Fortunately today, very many 67 years of age and older are in very good shape, people who can and wants to continue working but who don't want to do it because what they have recovered may have suffered a loss. But now we're looking for 45% of all revenues to decline. It is also important to maintain that the decline rate is of all income, which, of course, adds much to the benefit of those who have had pensions or capital pay which have no limits or virtually none in recent years. This also brings great relief. I'd also like to say, a respectable president, before I accepted my case, that I was surprised that after this case came up and especially after the additional proposal revealed an increase in income, the income limit, and the minimum wage increase of May 1, 2017, to 280 of yours. K. ... andmorethan 300yous. K. In May 2018, everything just went down here at the council. I think that the main reason for this was that the minority of the council was that it felt a little uncomfortable that such summation, such a massive leap we've just taken, should take place on the watch of the forward party and the Independence Party in the government. These groups have been working on improving the interest of older citizens. Although many have been happy in recent years, let us not forget that it was our first task to reverse the decline done in 2009. There is no objection. Of course, it wasn't all finished, but it was a big step, a big, important step. We're moving on, and we're going to move on. It is also a very important message from this chair that we will continue to improve the terms of these groups, that is, at least, my will, increase their employment, and make their lives as bearable as possible. I've told it very often from this chair, very often, that we, the people sitting at the council, will be judged by how we put older people in the country, put them at risk that they can live a carefree life night. It is to be our gratitude to this group that gave us this land and this wonderful life in which we live. There was no struggle. We enjoy it, and we have to pay them back by preparing them for a lifetime of care. I think it's very important too. Just at the end of my talk, a respectable president, I'd like to say again: These steps are the first steps in a long way, on the way to the more experienced ones and the desperate ones of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u112	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has not been a good listener if he believes that we in a smaller part of the Council are in some way opposed to an increase in money in the social security system. It couldn't be any further. What we have criticized, however, is in what way, into which credit grade they are put, and we feel that this could be done differently that would benefit many more. It's out on it that our breakthrough in the smaller part of our history. The welfare committee is walking. It could be understood that way, and I'm not sure if I understand it correctly, in the case of the day. This is because the Quantum Community did not write down the proposals proposed on a review of the social security system on the quality of life as a change in proposals of the more part and additional funds enter the specific extension, i.e. the category of improvements that are impaired against a dollar and therefore have a 100% decrease rate. Counts 'em out. A senator says there's a connection between how the Quantum Community made its way into this committee and how it's being put into this relief party here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. I want to start by thanking her for her cooperation on a welfare committee, it's been a great pleasure and a good thing. Although we do not always agree on all creation, I have come to realize how much it is in these people's best interests, how we do so, and all the committees. I thank her for the inquiry. With regard to the credit classes and whether it was because the Quantum Community didn't sign a contract that we put this money into the special supply, I don't think it was. This was just the way it seemed most normal. We made sure that in this legal system, the most important thing was to raise the lowest wage and that the increase would not reach all the stairs, so we took the steps we did in it, both when we raised individuals and when we were desperate. But it's perfectly clear, and no. A senator is very aware that because of not signing a contract, we could not go as with our older citizens, and they still have the pathetic advantage of being a reduced crown in that regard. I never believe it, and I don't suppose anyone would think of punishing them for upholding the interests of the Corporate Community in treaties with government funds. I don't believe it. Of course, people will succeed, but it is also important that in such agreements people have everyone's best interests in mind. We'll never get everything, but we're going to get something, and it's important to get the contracts as soon as possible with the Quantum Coalition.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u114	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. As I said, I was not sure how to understand his words in speech, so it's good that he came up and explained it even more. This was made very clear in the Commission on a review of the social security system from including Iceland's greasing alliance, development aid as well as our deputies in the smaller part of the council that we are concerned that people with limited workers have difficulty working, and it may be difficult for the team to get a job. On the other hand, it was the willingness of the majority of the committee to adopt a central reform system that built on the basis that people have a job and therefore need less money from the social security system. Of course, it's something that we all want me to think that all of us are heading toward and think we're exemplary. But because these concerns have been expressed, I would like to ask them why. A member of the Parliament whether it will not interfere with the suggestion that the changes in the most part of it are suggested to increase the value of the improved class, which has 100% decrease ratios and completely reduces the impulse to seek work. [[The president calls.]] Really, then, we can see even less whether those who want to go to work get the job. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You see, there would have been information that would have been very valuable to us in continuing to develop ideas about the quality of our work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u115	A respectable president. I'm going to keep answering. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. I am concerned about the Corporate Community and the Developmental Fundamentalist because people with limited energy are not getting their jobs. I think it must be a very important objective for all of us, welfare committees and members of the council to make it possible for the employment and institutions of this country to take a poorer measure of employment and for those with less ability to work. I have even thought that there is a reason to set up a law that agencies and companies with a particular number of employees should have a member of that group working with them. I just don't like making laws about that. I would've chosen to come forward and offer a job to these people. We were talking about poor people and those with a lower level of professional ability to get a half compensation and to work full - time without cutting the benefits. So there are various ways we can agree that... A senator agrees that it is very important. [[Up front.]] It's a very important assignment. Let us talk about it at the next assembly, those in the hall, to the extent that it opens up. In terms of the benefit group, it may have been the simplest way, but at the same time, it let down for our people. That's why I think it's very important, and it's the job now, that we get together and finish these contracts, so these good people of ours have the same terms. [[The president calls.]] And we want them to live in the same way as older citizens, although they cannot be fully compared. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u116	A respectable president. I have to admit that when we discuss social security, I'm going to get hurt in my sense of justice. It doesn't matter whether we talk about disability or a pensioner or what it's called. What I have so hard to deal with is the dominant attitude, that everything should just be on the forward line. We see the same attitude in the LIN bill, where people are supposed to be on the front line, all benefits are listed as being up-to-date. Actually, the strategist isn't even a minimum wage. What I find particularly difficult to deal with is all my income cuts. In the bill, the decline rate is increased. At the same time, even though I'm no expert on this, I'm increasing considerably more into one group of reformers. It's gonna take a little patience if I'm not 100% right. Deforestation is always a bit difficult, since people are often trying to save themselves for something or to have a trip abroad or what it is. They're people after all. Then I'm not saying what some have said, but what about all these billions and millionaires? Should they also be allowed access to the social security system? We're not necessarily talking about it. We are talking about ordinary people who are trying to live their normal lives day by day. Like I said, I'm really having a hard time with this bill right now. Its goal is a simple improvement system, but I don't quite see where the simplicity takes place. Yes, there is, naturally, some unit of reforms, but I don't understand what it actually does. Sometimes the simplicity is a problem, and it seems to be in here a certain complication by increasing the impairment rate. I must admit that I think deeply about what has happened to someone else. Council members regarding this rise, i.e. an increase of 13.4% in home remuneration, what it will do if we take into account the degree of loss of income, which is being increased at the same time. I don't quite see how this is going to end. I think it's a little bit of a game to talk about. I don't understand why people can't be paid a decent salary for being real. I don't understand why people who have worked hard to make a life for the rest of their lives don't get what's equal to the minimum wage in Iceland. I find it very difficult to understand that it all applies to a stratosphere, which is somehow developed and does not necessarily take into account the diverse circumstances of people, such as the need for medicinal products or other such. Also, I do not understand that it is okay for those who are living together to have considerably less monthly pay. It would be most natural for me to get 50 of them together. K. within a month's pay, to be consistent within the system. I'm suggesting it. I find it hard to understand the thought behind it. I understand it's more expensive to live alone, but I don't like 240 of you. K. Nothing to shout in the face of the prices today, unfortunately. I don't understand why it's about to go up the ablade which is the most impaired and the purpose of it. What's the big movie gonna look like? I'm just happy that there are ups in the whole system. So I can't say that I'm especially against it. But I put in my ignorance a question mark to a certain thought I've found in other parts of the system, and it's the old-fashioned idea that people who accept something from the community are on the farm and that it's okay to live on hunger. I really don't agree with that. I feel it shines a little through when we read bills like that, unfortunately. I can't say that I fully understand this case, because the social security system is very complicated, but all such reforms should be carefully investigated. Although the commission was given to the committee to discuss this matter, I was not in trouble. A committee, called or why, on the St. Peter's Committee. The welfare committee. All I have to say is that I'm gonna put a question mark on this process, even though I'm pleased to know that more money is brought into these classes. I have asked questions about why a couple living together should have less a month and why this is being added to the fact that the person who lives alone receives 280 of you. K. Why doesn't everyone get 280 points? A k., which must be the goal of getting everyone in? I'm not gonna keep my case much further. It's a general speculation. Although I may, of course, appreciate the objective, I make a special advance in this process. I have to say right now, there are a lot of things in here that I don't understand. I hope others are. Senators can explain it to me better.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u117	V.E.G. President. Hv. In this bill, a senator found it difficult to understand the thought and was ill in his sense of justice. I'm really worried if those Pirate agents, if it's that general with the Pirates, they're going to get hurt in their sense of justice with this bill and they're gonna have a hard time understanding it. This bill is thought precisely, as the government's hearing has been in most cases, to protect their interests. There's never been anything else. You have to understand what social security is. Federal insurance. There's minimal progress to be ensured. Why does it get soft? So surprised, then, that a candidate should be in line with a straddler's policy? What should we aim for? And if it's social security, it's about alimony, why does that make sense? So a senator did not see that it is normal - since the senator understood that the business was less expensive with partners, and it is all about living and making minimal progress - that there is some impairment when people are together? This can't be simpler. I don't understand why not everybody here just jumps over it with joy. No, it has become an inconsistencies because everyone doesn't get it. Is the senator supposed here to be a citizen's salary? What does the senator mean?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u118	A respectable president. Maybe I'd like to start by correcting some things. A senator, I have a sense of justice when we talk about the social security system in general, where I've heard a lot of stories about how people trying to keep fighting, and then suddenly the social security system says, "Hey, listen, let's see, you owe us. But the person simply doesn't have a comb for the ass anyway. These are the stories you hear here and there. Of course, when we discuss these matters, my heart becomes only evil and evil in my sense of justice. It's very complicated, like a whale. A senator points out. Although living together is less expensive, I feel that they should not be cut off. I feel that a household supplement, and a household supplement then needs to be supplemented according to minimal progress. Two hundred and twenty thousand a month, I wouldn't trust myself to live on it. 240 thousand? Hardly. Remuneration for a general labour market has reached a monthly rate of 280 to300 thousand. There's just a big difference. Then perhaps some household chores could be discussed. That's what I'm talking about. Home - to - do is to make things right. Not to say, "Hey, 280 grand"? No, if you're living together, we'll walk away from you. It's something that this is actually thinking. It's great to be putting money into the system. But I must be allowed to comment on how this approach is. Yeah, okay, I totally understand what the social security system is. Why, then, are people who make a few bucks so hard? Why are these impairments so strict? Why are the decline rates being increased? We are often talking about single people who may be knitting sweaters, just to have the possibility of giving Christmas gifts to their grandchildren. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u119	V.E.G. President. I'm afraid I will. A senator still leaves behind the social security involved in this talk. This system simplicity is for example. to prevent such accounts, as mentioned earlier. That's a lot of simplicity. This is much cleaner. It is true that it has, of course, been difficult for those who have not been in a job market, live alone, and have been paid well. This is where they're improving their benefits. Because they were basically under the alimony criteria. On the other hand, those who make money elsewhere and live together will, of course, be less progressive. These are social security. There is no justice in having a full pension and then spending money elsewhere. That's when they're way beyond the payroll, even middlers. There's no social security system. Of course, it's just getting crazy. It's not supposed to happen. We are just making sure that no one is under some standard, that there is no room for necessities, and that they do not make ends meet at each month's conventions. That's what it's all about. It's about social security. That's why they're supposed to come down here and jump their hill for joy, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u120	A respectable president. Maybe you're not right. Senator that the bill will totally prevent all account accounts and be simple. It's simply not right. It's very controversial whether it is. So I'm gonna have to put a little notice on those tipes from the back of my head. Senator. I can't quite jump my hill of joy here in a punk. I'm not entirely sure that a respectable president would consider this appropriate. If the aim of social security is that all should be about in the stratosphere and can never do anything beyond that, that is exactly what we disagree about. I think it's all right that people can live decent lives. I think the straggility point should be exactly what happened. A senator pointed out. This is basic progress, the cost of living and paying for your bills. But I think it's all right for people who can earn a little more or who have collected into bills or inherited an inheritance that doesn't all get damaged by the time being done. I think it's okay for people to be allowed to go to Florida from time to time or to Spain or Copenhagen to visit their children. I think it's okay. Also, I think it's all right that both poor and old-tempered people can collect money and enjoy their goods and not just being shrunk and shoddy. But, hey. Clearly, a senator feels that people live exactly in the stratosphere, not much above, that's too much, but perhaps below. It seems to be okay for what? A senator. That's why my sense of justice makes me sick. It's exactly this attitude that I find very difficult to understand, that those who are making money from the state or pension can just have it pretty bad. That seems to be a point of view. Senator. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u121	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about 2. bill to legalize social security laws, social assistance laws and the laws on the issues of the elderly through subsequent changes. Here, several members of the Parliament have spoken up and were completely honest with saying that they find the system complex - and that they have trouble understanding it. So I would like to suggest that at the next assembly, now that the end of elections, the government's insurance agency will be given to conduct a course or presentation of the social security system. I think it's very important that such a presentation is not a matter of single warning. Senators who are in trouble. The welfare committee, though most important, is that all of them understand the system. Rather, I believe it would be a great improvement if members of the general body had good knowledge of how the social security system works. Of course, the global insurance system is one of the most important things we have in our welfare community. It is therefore important that members of the Parliament, who carry the contributions of those who have impaired their ability, know both the systems and the ideals that people enjoy. If I shall reelect, I will speak for the end of the election that insurance agencies will be given to give such a presentation to interested ones, and I certainly hope that as many people are interested in these matters. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, who is the head of the committee's opinion of the lesser part of the whale. services committees, conducted their talks carefully through the committee's opinion of the smaller parts of the social committee as well as the proposed changes. The committee proposes. So I'm not going to go through the committee opinion again, but I intend to use my talk time here to draw out especially some things that I think are very important about changing the social security law. First, I must mention that bill, i.e. The original bill from the highest. Minister of society and housing, arrived a little late for the council, and then immediately became critical for taking the sole price of a pensioner. It was also highly critical that there were no changes in the rates of pensioner payments, in accordance with the labour market menial reforms and that the bill, as it was then expressed, did not assume any increases in the age-old pensioners in the recovery of the social insurance system. This, of course, is the older citizen in the most difficult financial position. Fortunately, in Iceland, many older citizens are quite normal and some are very good. However, there is a group who have little or nothing in a pension fund, so they must rely entirely on the payment of the social security system. It is unacceptable that dresser compensation does not reach him as much as any of the objects here at the General Sees and therefore suggest a change in the bill. The suggestions for more things go wrong. However, the welfare committee suggests that it was extremely late until or after the completion of the General Work Programme and actually at the end of the week where the General Assembly had been active without a plan. Although it is better to make the adjustment, it did not at all cause a very short period of time to evaluate the impact of the changes and the representatives of the smaller objects. For example, the welfare committee called for stage shots to determine how these changes would affect certain groups and also called for calculation of the impact other exports would have, even with the same capital and more share of the data. The welfare committee is suggesting. But because of the short time frame, it was not possible to fulfill that wish. Of course, it's shocking, stage arts are so important in the system because it's not simple. In fact, no matter how well you know the system and the different impairment rates in it, when the only small tooth wheel is moved into the picture, movement will start out as difficult if it is not impossible to see how the pensioner's final pay will be affected and that he will be involved. This also made less things less difficult. The welfare committee, who is critical of the changes in the greater part, also had a very short time to respond and shape their suggestions. This is most important because the smaller part suggests that all reform groups increase by 13.4% in order to maintain social security in the context of relevant workforce increases. But also so that unexpected movements do not start that we cannot know in advance what the consequences will be. We must never forget that it is the forwardness of people with whom we are working and working. With seniors, we have a bill at the highest level. Ministers are being reduced to one-side-counting classes and one decline rate is introduced into all other incomes. This impairment rate will be 45%. In fact, I don't object to the simpleness of the system, and I think it's very necessary to simplify the system to make it more understandable. I'd also like to say, though, that we all have to be careful not to lose sight of the fact that even if the system becomes simple, it must not lead to some way in which it is wrong. To achieve the improvement of your pensioner to 280 of you. K. has become the way of doing it throughout the household. I'm very much in favor of paying for those who live alone. However, it has to be remembered that domestic work, especially in the changes presented here, brings more money and money to others than the combined improved pension system. Thus, putting all the increase in household chores in place would be the authority to give with one hand and take it back with the other. This must be kept in mind. For the disability, it was, as I came to this moment, on the top of the bill. There are no changes or increases expected by the secretary in the bill. It was critical. More of it. The welfare committee chooses to go that way to raise disability, in order to say that they are raising disability to 280 of yours. K. in line with the minimum wage in 2017, increase the cost of remuneration that falls in excess of a dollar. This is a strong criticism in the lesser part. This is, of course, the relief category that has a 100% reduction ratio. This change is further established by this subsidiary group that cuts against a dollar and expands the population of microorganism that receives payment according to this system. To date, there has been an agreement to reduce the importance of this system reformation group. The problem is that this relief party is extremely professional. I have not heard any senator, nor in fact no one who disagrees that the work of people with impaired skills is good. Not only because of this, a person can improve his financial interests but secular interests are equally relevant to social interests. Yes, it is through a job that adults take the most part in society. One of the major concerns of the Micro-Communication Community is concern about how the artificial labour market is to hire people with less ability to work. Now, in my opinion, it would have been a song to reduce the importance of this team of reforms, so professional, just to see what happens, to see if more poor people don't try to get into the job market and see at the same time how well they're doing getting a job. I feel very sad that the other part is going to suggest that this group of reforms get more weight. As a result, disability is even less likely to try to find employment, as is permitted because of its lack of financial value; even the cost may fall. But because my time is getting shorter, and I've mainly spent my minute talking about older citizens and desperate ones and criticizing the way that the greater part suggests to improve their terms, I'd like to say a few words about an increase in life - saving age and a flexible retirement. In our memory, we are very fulfilling the goal of a flexible nursing age and believe that people can have a choice whether they have taken a pension earlier or putting it off. We, however, believe that all changes in the life - saving age will be made in context. Since we have found that it is impossible to complete work on changes in public resources bio change, it is appropriate in the social security system to also wait for any suggestions on the growth in pension due to the need for these systems to talk, and this must be considered in context. Finally, I have to say that we left greens are warning at 18. The bill. But since my time is up, I see that I have to put myself back on the rosary to explain our warning in the left green. [[The president calls.]] Then I will also use my second talk period to improve my review of the changes in memory of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u122	V.E.G. President. I come up here for a brief talk because of a deeper voice. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. He now carried a rather thin message on the rise in social security payments. Those of us who observe them and their development in comparison with our country's salary know that he was taking only half - truths. Thus, during the period of this government, the highest paying costs have increased by 10% in the social security system alone and the cost of minimum wage is increased by 21%. The increase, therefore, is only 50% of the potential of low - paying people. These are the facts we've been trying to counteract with repeated proposals for the increase in social security that the forwarding team and the Independence Party have rejected. I think it's so presumptuous to come here and say that this government has raised a raffle in the pensions of social security that I felt compelled to come up here and correct this half-truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u123	V.E.G. President. Then I can go back to where it was gone. When this big, important system is being discussed, time is often enough. I was at the end of my case on the matter of increasing the pension age and the flexible retirement of a life - style. I pay a great deal of caution that there is an increase in pensions in one system rather than in another system at the same time. It's actually just like what I said in 1st. about the bill of changes in the Department of Pension for Public Workers, i.e. that there was a bill to be considered in connection with this bill. Now we're in position to say, "Because we can't finish the other thing, we're also going to have to wait for the rise in the pension age in this system. " This matter must be taken into account. For example, strong protests from Iceland's Common Association have been made as a result of which it includes the fact that if this bill were adopted, the difference in the life - saving age would increase even more from the present level, i.e. The pension age of public employees and general employees, however, was available. I think it's very harsh and can simply get us as a community in a very difficult situation. Then it was our left-green reserve that I was going to do a few words about. It is best to start a little further and report that the smaller item on the welfare committee supports the improvement of the majority of the segments in removing Article 11. The bill, which stipulates the reduced rights of pensioners in prisons for provisional funds. I am very happy that I have agreed on that on the Committee and agree with the words here that have fallen to make a complete review of the system. Then, at the warning. In the 18th. The bill refers to the addition of a new provision for temporary planning that a minister will appoint a team to implement a testing project for a new nursing home for the payment of residents in nursing homes. I don't think it has to be bad in itself. But it depends on how this is going to work, which is fundamental. That's why we're in VG foreboding. I'll have to read it, with the permission of the highest. President: ▪ The left movement, the green supply, serves as a warning to this article of the bill and the adjustment of the share that allows rural communities to collect services. Presumptuously, no export has been made of the potential effects of the introduction of biosurgents by a husk. The change may make it impossible for some nursing residents to afford important services, as well as the impact of such changes on the management plans of nursing homes. To illustrate some examples of what nursing homes are expected to provide, there is a direct need to provide food, leisure work, housing, cleaning, and laundry. Of course, it must not be that people living in a nursing home have to refuse to clean up their apartment or room because of poor economic conditions in their later years. And since food is included, I wonder: " Does that mean that if you can't afford another day's food, you can decide to get food every other day? There are such factors that will be considered in this experiment. I don't really want any of us to take our community to a place where nursing homes live that they can't afford the basic necessities of life, such as food, cleaning, and laundry. On the other hand, I have here, both in this talk as well as in my first talk, traced responses to the bill as well as the main adjustments from the greater part of my speech. The welfare committee. So I think it's about to put the money into an opaque group where people can easily be dusted by merely talking about the rise but letting the decrease that comes in is more in between parts, for in the motions of more parts, the money is just put into the majority of the damages, i.e. household replacements in senile patients where the decrease rate is increased, and the extension in microenergy pensioner patients, which is impaired against a crown. So we are in a smaller part of the welfare committee completely disagree with, but because of the time we have to shape the suggestions to react to the changes in the majority of them, we suggest that all relief groups rise by 13.4%, thus paying social security in line with agreed pay-offs in the labour market. I'm glad that we've met that there's an increase necessary to bring up the most suitable pensioners. Sadly, though, more suggestions on how to do so are given. Therefore, the smaller item suggests its own modification proposal. I sure hope that after this discussion, we can see why. Councilmen of light and bill will be accepted with the changes made by the lesser part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u124	V.E.G. President. I'm just here to thank you for a good discussion on this important subject. These are the largest steps that have been made to improve the social security system in decades. 5.3 billion are undergoing system changes for the elderly, streamlining system to reduce the loss of the dollars. 4.5 billion go to free markets on all incomes to the elderly. One billion are in an effort to increase the benefits of the lowest terms, single species and the elderly. It's a total of 10.8 billion and a lot of simplicity on the elderly system. Now there is a debate between the Quantum Community and the Ministry of Health about important system changes for micro-piercing. I certainly hope that these discussions are moving rapidly and well, so that the desperate will have their system changes, such as the elderly. It's important. I know work is hard to finish. Under it, about 4 billion are found in system modifications for disability. Of course, it is important in all the discussion to consider that a security network in the system. But I came up here merely to thank you for the discussion and to remind you that it is a great willingness to meet those who are at their homes. I need to call the bill to what. The welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u125	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes, child pensions. The majority of the committee handled the case to 2nd. August 24th, published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. During a conference at the Assembly Hall, it was noted that locality is prohibited in Iceland, and in view of this, it was decided to accept the matter back into the committee and suggest a change in wording. The majority claim that the bill is intended to contribute to the equality of children of single parents and to ensure that, regardless of gender, public support for single - parent families is the same. The change ensures that the right of a single father to a child's pension was not limited to her mother's death but also to other possible circumstances. Thus, whatever the reason for this, the equality of children of single parents will be guaranteed, in line with the ideal vision behind the payment of child care to ensure minimal progress on the part of all children. Taking into account the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. put it At 4 mg. 20. Adding to these laws is the fact that a mother does not enjoy because of special or unusual circumstances. Ásmundur Friðriksson and Þorvarðardóttir were Ólína at the hearing. Halldóra Mogensen, an officer of the hearing, agrees with this. Under these are the writers of the committee, the one that stands, Silja the daughter of Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Valur the son of Björnsson, Óli Björn the son of Kárason, the Konráðsdóttir of Congis, and Elsa the daughter of Lára Arnardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u126	Madam President. The 2nd. on this matter, about the change in social security law that turns to child support, was highly critical of the fact that there was here an embalmation in the lawbook, but as we all know, surrogates are prohibited in Iceland. After this much discussion, the decision was made to bring the matter back to the welfare committee and work on changing the wording in order to get what would directly point a surrogate view from the Law text. This is done here by means of a change in wording that adds up to 4 mg. 20. The law of the law says, with the permission of the president: both the mother and the mother are not available because of special or unusual circumstances. Of course, to me these words are better spoken than to speak of surrogates in a straight way, but to me there is no doubt about what really is meant. As a result, I decided to bring in a special party on this subject. That's very short. That's why I'm going, with permission of the highest power. To get to read it directly: In Iceland, the same section insists that local transportation is prohibited. The memory supports that it is the same with the public support of single parents, regardless of gender, that a single father's right not only to the death of a mother but also to other causes, such as cases where a single male has been granted permission to adopt a child. Then there should be no need to state that law against law is prohibited.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u127	Madam President. I recommend a synopsis proposal made by a Senate class of greens, which reads: It is a challenge to all concerned members to observe the non-employment international releases for the protection of health care professionals, health care professionals, and emergency assistance in war zones. At the same time, the General Assembly condemns assaults on hospitals and medical shelters in war zones, describes the support of international law and international releases against such activity, and obligates the government to protest such offenses in the United Nations. This is a conclusion that in itself should not have to be discussed at the General Assembly, for of course we expect the nations to uphold international law. Sadly, though, we have seen an increasing number of cases in which health - care professionals are attacked in a war zone. In May of this year, the National Security Council of the United Nations adopted a resolution in which attacks on health care workers on war zones, hospital attacks, shelters, and other facilities used to help wounded and sick peoples in which wars were severely condemned by reference to the Geneva Convention and other international agreements on commitments involving armed conflicts, human rights contracts, and humanitarian laws. The reason for the conclusion was the frightening development of major attacks on health care professionals and their bases on war zones over the years. The number of such incidents is confirmed in war - torn countries, including Afghanistan, South Sudan, Syria, Yemen, Ukraine, and the Central African Republic. The protection provided by the health - care providers in international control areas is an enormously important means of humanity. A multinational body of doctors, without borders, the Red Cross, the Red Half Moon, and many others have sent medical personnel into the scene to assist those in need, regardless of how they have suffered from injury or illness and without taking sides with warring forces. In view of the humanitarian work done by health - care professionals in war - torn areas, there are attacks on it as war crimes. Nevertheless, the number of these attacks has increased greatly and is at times more similar than that of a warring force, with the goal of being a perfect disrespect for human rights and humanitarian views. The most disgusting thing to be done is probably never to be considered where armed conflicts take place, but this is the course of setting aside the international barrier to war crimes bound in international releases in the light of bitter experience. That's where the cohesion is everything. The impact of each State on change is limited, but with a joint effort, bad developments in the past few years can be reversed, and this is urgent. This decree of Congress, which, in fact, claims only that we want international law to be followed in wars, will make it possible for the international voice of Iceland to be used to protest such lawless attacks on health workers in war zones, to express support for the international releases that protect it and its work in behalf of the world's war - torn people throughout the world. I hope, if we have these proposals, that Iceland will be reporting internationally, protecting the vital work that doctors and other health care professionals are doing around the world in very difficult situations. I suggest that the proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u128	V.E.G. President. Work to improve the social security system has lasted for nearly a decade. We in the Union support the system change brought into law here, but we regret that we did not have an agreement with the micro-energy donor. We will support the structural changes and any suggestions for increasing the bill. However, we cannot agree to raise a pension age when the National Association of Iceland declared such bitter opposition because of the failure of the bill for changing government laws. So, in the Union, we will support the system conversions and increases involved in this bill while sitting by the payment of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u129	Madam President. In the left movement, a ◯ green supply supports the system changes suggested here for the pensioner. We, along with the smaller parts, contribute to our own transitional proposals on how to improve the quality of pensioners and disability and, of course, support them. Nevertheless, if they fail to succeed, we will support the articles on the bill that will help to improve the quality of disability, even if we want to see other exports there. However, we cannot support the system changes that are going to take place in opposition to the entire labour market organization in terms of a pensioner's age and therefore sit by the cover of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u130	A respectable president. There's a lot of better money here for all those who get social security benefits. It is a milestone step that we take in the system change, the simple system. We have a more transparent, fairer, and better social security system after approval of these laws. Since then, it is especially good that we have created circumstances in which to restore the minimum amount of improvement to 300 levels. K. in the steps that have been presented. In terms of the rise in pensioning age, it is accurately said that this is, of course, compatible with the average pension rights between the public and the public market. There's no disagreement with the government that they were always supposed to hang out. I think it's obvious that we need to discuss the issue of how to respond to the conclusion and the indications that have come from the European Union, which are primarily concerned that the Common Union does not trust that the Parliament will be expected to settle the pension rights as it had been agreed on in the public market. In view of this distrust, the relationship does not support the suggestion for the rise in pensional age as presented here. [[The president calls.]] But at the same time, let's keep it up that it is fully supported by that system change, it's just a question of when it's due to be started. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u131	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to know that this matter has come to a vote on the 2nd issue. and hopefully we'll finish it later tonight. I'd like to thank a few on this occasion, especially Pétur, the late Blöndalur. A senator we all miss here from the Hall of Congress and then the Sæmundsson of Seystein, who ended his work after Pétur's death. I would also like to use this opportunity and thank the welfare committee for all their work and agree with what is presented here on the importance of the reinstatement of the case. and that the Pension Age will be reviewed in accordance with the comments made by the Common Union. It would have been great if we had also stuck here with an agreement made with the official budget of the labor market on equal pension rights. I hope that's going to work. I know that those who stand for this government will do their part to do so. Here, however, we are accepting the greatest change in social security ever made. The changes made by the committee surely improve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u132	A respectable president. Of course, I'm happy to step up the benefits and pensions available from the social security system. On the other hand, this bill is not only about an increase in benefits but also about the age of pension. In view of the fact that the bill has been highly criticized, including Of ASI, I can't see myself able to vote for it as a whole. I'll vote for anything that turns to dress, but otherwise I'll sit by and think that the pirats will do that in this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u133	Madam President. It's complicated and difficult. The matter is solved with such speed, and it is almost impossible to grasp it. That's why I'm going to be sitting by the hearing. But since the bill seems to be a step toward improving the benefit of a large group of people in the community, I can't completely object to it, but I can't support it because it's so far from the simple and dresser improved that the Pirats intend to work on. On the other hand, I support unique articles on the bill, and I support the change in my share's proposals because I think it's a reformation of this other amazing bill that doesn't seem to follow its own goals with a decline and a continued tibia.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u134	A respectable president. There are some things that we in our future support this bill. Of course, we support increases and compensations to the groups who accept pay and contributions from the State. We support some of the system changes made here, but others that have been put in place and not in agreement with their representatives, we do not support them. We are behind the changes made by the anticoagulant government. We believe that it is a matter of human rights that those groups whose career is dependent on us and their decisions here deserve to follow other groups of society. It's not a matter of comfort in the accounts of the state. It's a matter of human rights. We'll probably sit by, but we'll support what's good in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u135	V.E.G. President. We're here paying a vote for a social security bill. This is one of the biggest steps ever taken in improving the social security system. In system changes, 5.3 billion are replaced by a dollar and a dollar is combined. More than 4.5 billion are set to free revenues, and 1 billion are up to improve the social benefits of those whose foot is nested in the community, i.e. Singles and seniors, to minimum wage, i.e. extensions are of minimal value. This is 10.8 billion dollars. ... you'reextendedtothegreet. That's an enormously positive and big step. Then, of course, we must continue on the same path and ensure microorganization comparable to that of an agreement between the Quantum Community and the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u136	A respectable president. On the contrary to what has been said at work in the field of the joint committee of all classes and groups of the labour markets, it is not possible to speed up the general market pension age. Therefore, it is inevitable that only votes against this, and particularly in view of the failure of the government, in the way that the entire government body of public employees would agree, to come to the agreement on an equation of pension rights. It's very contrary to the fact that this is a place in a legalized proposal at the end of the council. It is totally unacceptable to vote for a five-year difference between when a pension age begins in public markets and in public wages.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u137	Madam President. We have an independent group and a forwarding party turning down the less part's path to increase the pay of social security. We want our payments to increase by 13.4% so that the difference between single and married couples does not increase and those who live together are raised to 241,000. but not 227,000 times. as much as any part suggests. This is a rejection of this decision and a decision to increase the number of single ones more than at the same time to contribute to the greater limit. We regret it in the smaller part.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u138	A respectable president. Here we are setting up as temporary regulations that the minimum social security benefits will be 300 yous. K. at the beginning of 2018 or several months before the minimum labour market wage. What a pleasure it is to stand here and vote for this. This was concluded by the recent campaign of candidates. We figured it out, too, about 300 yards. K. It should be a minimum wage in the labour market, and we will continue to support those who have few in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u139	V.E.G. President. We support the aim of paying social security for the development of a labour market. As a result, we support this suggestion more than we disagree with the methodology, which involves raising the most negative category. In the case of micro-energy transplant recipients, the highest elevations are carried out by a class that is 100% reduced by other revenues. As a result, I hope that after the next election, I will reach the power of a government that does not make political decisions to increase in Iceland's inequities. We agree with our objective but fully disagree with the method.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u140	Madam President. A representative of the left movement was on the health committee's offer, due to this article in the leading article in the section and is in advance of the changes made by the bill as well as by the article itself. It suggests that no export is available for the possible effects of the treatment of human pensioners. The change may cause some nursing residents not to afford important services, as well as the impact of such changes on the management plans of nursing homes, and that is why we have a vote on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-12-169.u141	A respectable president. I support this change. This is a change that has to do with the experiment projects we plan to launch in nursing and living homes, to cover the best way to make payment for the elderly in nursing homes and nursing homes. This has been a battle between the elderly and their interests for a very long time, so it is a very large and satisfying step. I'm sorry we didn't discuss this any more, because there we are indeed making sure and working on the survival of the elderly and removing the infamous allowance system.
