ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary Party of the Left Motion of the Green Mission to 8th. We're out of here. "Ögmundur Jónasson, can't attend a conference next time. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as his assistant, Mt. 1 of the left movement's list of green bids in the district, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir. First, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir, who is invited to serve again at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u2	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, social and housing minister, marine emissary and agricultural minister, foreign minister and minister of education and culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u3	A respectable president. The sale of the Lands Bank has been very recently discussed, and news has now been coming from profits to which buyers of this object are in store, naturally asking questions about basic valuables, about the method of sales, and about whether the value of the sold has been properly appreciated. In this context, you also need to look at why the sale of the property part was secretly sold instead of offering it in general for sale in open competition as well as why this particular contract did not have the same rules as selling Valistor for profit that could result from the ownership of the European part of Visa. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, whether or not he has forced him to obtain information on this matter and to agree with me on the importance of being examined in these matters, whether by government or here on the scene of the council. I think it is very important to trace the events in this matter, the decisions, because there is a great deal of government sales ahead, and it is very important to build a credible account of it and to put any doubt over it that there is being protected from the interests of the State and that public property is in full value. Does a minister agree with me on this, and is he willing to give the strength of his party and of the government to enable this, by the actions of the Generals, to investigate, or to represent himself on his own initiative?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u4	A respectable president. I agree with what you think. The senator's concern on both the importance of ensuring that the State will obtain the most for the assets it decides to sell or its institutions and businesses as well as the need to inform how this could happen. The result of an obvious screw-up. In fact, I understand that the Lands Bank is taking its own initiative, I saw it in the media, returning the report to the council. The matter has been set up here at the council, especially at the same time. A senator, and I find it normal for the council to follow this rather than allow individual ministers to start research, as they may not have a position or authority to do so. However, the council has a means to continue considering and applying this matter and to find answers to questions that arise. A senator has cast himself out. I'll be rooting for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u5	A respectable president. I welcome those words to the highest degree. Prime Minister. It is important to have his public support that we continue to study in this regard. The bank officials will be meeting for a financial committee this week. It is expected that the Economic and Business Committee will again discuss this matter with the presidents. The Commission and the General Commission also have special responsibilities and authority in this subject. I think it's very important to us, because we're now being discussed on the top economic and business committee bill. The secretary of finance, which assumes that the Secret Service of the Sensitive Bank covers some 60 billion of its property and keeps it in prices, that we create a setting with no doubt that guarantees loyalty, transparency, and competition for what the State has to give away.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u6	A respectable president. I keep going under the tips of what we're doing. A senator, yet wanting his last words, about the importance of creating a frame, point to the fact that in recent years men have endeavored to create the greatest separation between politics and banks. As a result, it is difficult, even impossible, for politicians to interfere with things that seem unacceptable. It will then have to occur through the institutions, the arrangement that has been set up to follow such steps. This high emphasis on the fact that politics is not involved - we can ask ourselves, " Can I even go too far in this regard? ' Perhaps politicians, representatives of the public, need to have more opportunities to interfere; not to interfere with the daily bank business or so but to intervene if something is obviously going wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to direct an inquiry to the highest level. One prime minister of health - care facilities, which are widely available during the discussion these days and perhaps especially from the current collection of signatures, which are going very fast, many signatures, of large contributions to the health system. We have talked about, since the beginning of this terms, that it is important to take care of the health - care system and perhaps least the Land Hospital, our health - care center, and that contributions to the health system have been leaked, not just during this term but, in fact, since the turn of the century. Slowly, the proportion of our health - related national product has been reduced. At the same time, there has been an increase among the people as well as an increase in the area of the land where the Landspians live. Likewise, the nation is getting older and more people need service. The percentage of us here in Iceland is particularly unhappy when it comes to infrastructure. In 2013, the rate of HCP infrastructure is about 0.1% of GDP, the second largest in OECD measurements, while it is on average 0.5%. Then we may especially be watching this long wait for the construction of a new hospital. I'd like to direct that inquiry to the highest level. Prime Minister whether he can proclaim, on behalf of his government, on a program of restoration of the health system, and on time for raising funds for the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u8	A respectable president. First, I have to correct a problem. A senator. It is not true that in recent years contributions to health care have fallen. During this average period, they have risen year by year and have, in fact, never been greater. The procedure for the restoration of the health system is being carried out. Of course, when 30 billion are cut down during one terms, it will show. In Iceland, donations to health care are now higher than they have been before. However, it is clear that in the coming years and decades, the need for additional donations will continue to increase. For this reason there are various reasons; the average age of the nation goes up, the large riverways get older, the demand for the latest, the best, and often the most expensive drugs, the best, and the latest tools, etc. The demand and cost, for various reasons, will continue to increase. That's why we have to develop more valuables in this community. Developing more valuables, increasing valuables, and paying off debts. This is what matters in order to live up to the standards that the country will take to the health system, not just in the years ahead, but decades. It should be a priority for those who are aware of the need that is truly present in the medical system to seek all ways to increase their value in Iceland and, at the same time, pay down debts, for, for, for example, it is extremely bloody to pay a lot more on the interest of the estate than does the entire cost of operating in the Land Hospital each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. I don't know exactly how he calculates the figures that donations were never higher, but let them lie between parts, that doesn't exactly match the numbers I've been watching. I think it's important that we get out of the numbers, up or down, and focus on making the paces real structure and schedule that are not just somewhere into the future, a vague future, if well worked out, but on following this feeling in the community that we see in this series of signatures and see a scarf in the polls. The population wants a stronger and faster structure of the health system after a long time. I call to see a plan on it, that we start making decisions on how to proceed when it comes to the construction of a new county hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u10	A respectable president. In this important discussion, reasonableness must be shown. This government stresses health issues. It has set the priorities for health care to the point where, while we are running the United States with rest, despite this huge interest payment I mentioned earlier, the Icelandic government is being reassigned, one of the few European countries, we are adding more money to health care than before or more than 10% between years ago. Between 2015 and 2016, about 10%. It's impossible to hear. This is 17 billion bucks. increase. We have reached 164 billion in our health system, which shows that this is a significant increase of more than 10% between 2015 and 2016. Even if there is a need for further funding, the restoration of the health system is surely being done. But to live up to it, we need to produce more valuable things in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u11	A respectable president. It has been observed that the Ministry of Presidency has signed the Ministry's declaration and the Landstained Development Society eHf. In terms of the agreement on design to the level of construction aimed at the needs of the Management Board as a landlord, as well as the implementation of a contract between Iceland's Management Board and the Landstolvement because of an office building. It has been reported in the media that the Ministry also has a discussion about switching the property from the State to the side of the water supply department. That's when I'm talking about the area that's usually called a management field. The results of this discussion are expected to occur over the next three weeks and are expected to be met by a prime minister's expectations of reducing construction levels at Hafnar Square and then likely to increase this in an assembly at Control Center. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister - It has also been observed that when some of the government classes arrived in the media, some members of the Independence Party heard about this in the media - what legal means they accept when it hires state property at the Government Council. According to the presidency of the court, it is a minister of finance as a body of government property, and it is, in fact, established by the government's law on public finances. Actually, there is no 6. access to existing and new-release funds for the disposition of this box in any way. So I think we must ask here at the General Assembly that this case has been approved by the government? Is it, then, that the prime minister was assigned this role, which, under the order of the president, is to be on the hands of a financial minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u12	A respectable president. There's no issue to agree on in the government. The only thing that has happened in this case is that the members of the Ministry agree with this company's offer to have discussions on how to get to this facility in one way or another. There are people who are open to look at different avenues, and I'm not gonna order men from this pont and elsewhere about which landing is to be found while we don't know what really is there. It's not unnatural for a man to look at it and actually not be doing it for the first time. To find a new residence for the Management Board or part of it has long been considered. This need has become very urgent now because at least the Ministry of Presidency is losing the facilities most of the ministry has had in place. As a result, it is inevitable to look for ways to solve it. Of course, any signing of a marriage agreement, contract, or other agreement will depend on the rules that are common in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u13	A respectable president. I suppose that's right for me, and I'm asking for the highest. The prime minister to correct me if not, that this has not been discussed in Iceland's government and that discussions between the Ministry of Directories and the Landstolies include ideas of transvestment, based on ideas about the administration of governance without being discussed in the government and without having been dealt with by the Ministry of State. It is important from the WHO surveillance and maintenance role that this is confirmed that it is, at best, strange if the highest level. The prime minister believes that it is good politics to discuss the administration of state estates without being found 6th floors. a source, a special consultation with the secretary of finance, or a discussion in a government where the minister is assigned this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u14	A respectable president. The conclusions. There's a senator who's going to crash here all over the place. Of course, during the past few years and also now, the Ministry of finance has been consulted on the Management Board's housing issues. I just reiterate what I said before, that coming to be a deal of some kind, of course, it goes through those people who are vulnerable. So to make a decision. A senator is completely independent.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u15	President. V.E.G. The prime minister made a statement on his Facebook earlier today as opposed to the Kamá son Kári Stefánsson's signature, now writing about 44,000 Icelands a challenge to the government to defend 11% of GDP for health. By permission of the President, I speak the highest words. Prime Minister: ▪ I agree with those who feel that it is important to increase donations to health care. We have done so in recent years, and we need and should continue to do so. However, measuring health care from a certain proportion of national production is a questionable way. The country with the highest rate of health production is Tuvalu (18.5%) and second place is the United States with 17.1 (World Bank 2013). [...] We need to continue to increase the value of our country and put more on health and social security. Thus we need to set our priorities whether the proportion of VLPs becomes greater or lower than, for example, in Sierra Leone. I'd like to state that it's a pleasure to see how much you love it. Prime Minister is well - versed in statistics. I've noticed that sometimes it looks like the best. Prime Minister in OECD statistics and sometimes from other international institutions, now last in World Bank statistics. So I would like to ask, "How do you choose the highest one? " The minister of what statistics is best quoted? How will prime minister contribute to greater wealth in the country? And how do the Minister intends to ensure an emergency emergency in the national health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for reading clearly and clearly this entry, though not worth answering. Rather, a senator expressed it as those who heard the reading rather positively indicated the importance of keeping track of proper points when working together to promote health care in Iceland. How do we expect to respond to health - care issues? asked him. Senator. We are doing so, as I described here, with an enormous increase in the money fund for health care at the same time as we are being careful not to push the state aside and not increase the debt of the state, so we can continue to improve health issues. How will we increase our value in the land? One way we do this is by driving lucrative business, by working jobs that work, and by returning income to national construction like a seabed, by continuing to build up new branches. Therefore, it is particularly enjoyable to see that the priorities of the government on innovation are beginning to increase in the work in this article, the establishment of new enterprises, and a great innovation, which we will no doubt feel a positive effect in the coming years. Of course, it is important to keep investing in education. As time goes on, such an investment will return to itself. That's why it's the highest. A minister of education strives to provide the education they need in order to be competitive with young people in other countries and to be able to build up valuables in Iceland for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u17	President. I asked the highest. The prime minister of how he was happy to provide an emergency in a health - care situation today, and I found no answer. I agree completely and completely agree with all that was presented in the minister's speech on the emphasis he mentioned, but there was no answer to my question. So I wish that the second talk will answer the highest. My minister. Then I'd like to ask why. Ministers are concerned that a certain proportion of national production will be spent in this group of lawsuits. What other ways would be good as a measure to make sure that we have a health system for all who need it when they need it?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u18	A respectable president. I also forgot to answer the question about choice of statistics, although it was somewhat peculiar. OECD, on the other hand, is the organization of a distinct group of countries. The World Bank, on the other hand, is covering information on the benefits of all countries. I don't have a reason to believe that World Banks statistics are any worse than OECD statistics, and I don't suppose they will. A senator has it. With regard to the emergency health care problem, what happened? A senator describes it, we've been reacting exactly as I described before, including. by increasing this year's contributions to health between years of age by more than 10%. It's a simple, respectable president, but that's what we do because we think it's necessary. Again, the question of the value creation and the evaluation of land production remain in the hands of just the two. [[The president calls.]] A respectful president, if the land production decreased but the contributions to health remained unchanged, could say that health care is improving. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u19	V.E.G. President. At the end of the last week, we received the pleasant news that a so-called SALEK group, i.e. The labour market partners, would have reached a very important agreement in the labour market, the implementation of collective agreements made last, and the date of the 2018 end, even up to 2019. Surely, all of us must be thrilled that this is done and that the peace is done. According to the government, it is planning to improve the workforce by reducing insurance costs. It's all very enjoyable. But there is one group in this society, a respectable president, who I would like to make up for publicity and ask the highest level of questions. Prime Minister to, i.e. the age of the age and the disability of the soul. We shared much in both financial and financial contributions, how to raise payment for the elderly and the poor. These include the 5.5% that was to be arrived May 1 this year, but the agreed agreement has moved to January 1 and 0.7%, thus increasing the overall pay by 6.2% since January 1. The government is really with us generals, the advice of the elderly and the desperate. We are fellow workers of the aged and desperate, we decide what to do with them. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister, if the government is not quite 100% prepared to raise payment for the elderly and disability at the beginning of the year since January 1, as agreed in the labour market, and if it is not immediately brought in here. As far as I'm concerned, it's some 6,000,6,000,7,000 dollars. I'd like to talk about it from taxes, and I'd like to talk about it from now on. Today, after the observed increases, this is 186,000. By taxes and by no means will anyone live a decent life on it. I know that my prime minister and I agree on this. Or isn't it, Mr. Honorable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u20	A respectable president. I guess that's a reason to thank you. A senator for returning this point, the position of older citizens, and how the payment of pension has developed? It's good to have an opportunity to reiterate what we pointed to here before a New Year's Eve - I thought it was a bad time. A senator would not be receptive enough to them, or not quite aware - that, under the law of law, the changes made in other groups over a year are taken into account as to how they have worked in a labour market, how prices have developed. It's done at New Year's. This was taken up by 2015 at the end of the New Year, and hence, because of high rates of buying during that year, there was an unusually high percentage of pensions at the last New Year's. It now appears that when this year is renovated, there will also be a very significant rise in pensions because people's pay will develop in this way, they will increase so much, that the update, to make up in 2016, will be much higher in terms of energy and pension.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u21	V.E.G. President. Prime Minister and I agree on the importance of agreements made on the agreement, on labour market peace, on the increase in valuable things in the country. But I was really supposed to understand the highest answer. The prime minister so that the elderly and the poor should wait twelve months to match the labour market agreement, about increases in the wages of the elderly and the poor? I cannot believe that the prime minister will leave this group alone. Has the government found large banks there to balance government bills and budgets or to prevent financial gains? I'm asking. The result is not much in the history of this government. That was nearly 3,500 bucks. increase after taxation, which included the food tax and then $11,000. Now. The minimum improvement is 186,000. Today, it is to be out this year if prime minister is not going to put up with this adjustment. So I reiterate my question: Will the highest. ▪ Don't Prime Ministers promote a parapolitic agreement, as was done in the labour markets between those who negotiate the purchases and interest of the elderly and the desperate, and raise these payments from year to year like everyone else in this society? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u22	A respectable president. Terrorism is a weak attempt to pululism. Hv. A senator well knows - he has been here for a long time and even in the government - that pension payments have always been raised for years. I would be quite open to consider raising these payments more frequently or connected them to when most of the unions are making a deal. It's okay to look at it. Hv. A senator should bear in mind that in recent years older citizens have benefited from the arrangement that this will be completed for years because it is over the year. Then it is all taken into account, raise in prices, pay raise, and settles around the New Year's Eve. In other words, if you were upset. In recent years, a senator would not have chosen senior citizens to improve as much as they have done with their present system. At the same time, less is to be done. Because he now speaks of this government and of the development of the cases in her day, a candidate's power of improvement has rarely increased so rapidly. Of course, he's not big enough yet, but he's growing much faster than the last government and will continue to increase at next year's conventions.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u23	A respectable president. Head of the labor force, including The head of the head of the EEA, the head of the head of the head of the motor managers and metal technicians and the head of the UN, have recently referred to many serious cases of non-skilled activities, employees in the Icelandic labour market who are not registered and are not entitled to the rights, even of employees who have been employed here in the country since 2014, without any record or due or due the rights of their employees. The work force of motor managers and metal technicians has shown employment contracts that the directors believe are going on the next time. We've received reports of Polish workers in a Southern hostel where all rights were broken. We must all be concerned that this will be taken into consideration, especially now that growth in the economy is being made up and that there will be more human resources needed, both in man - made construction, in which this has been particularly prominent and in the transport industry, where this has, unfortunately, been growing. The labor force officials have pointed out that the legal ramification is fine, that there is much to explain, but they say that the surveillance is lacking, that the employment agency is not tailored so that it can keep the necessary monitoring of the work we need. Researchers have become aware of employees who have worked in Iceland for months without having the legal rights they have. That's why I have a direct inquiry to the highest level. Social Affairs minister, who spoke in early October publicly about her activities and services in response to these measures, and whether she is concerned with monitoring the staff and import of foreign workers and their work in the Icelandic labour market is adequate. How much money is spent on this patrol? How many employees or standards will monitor the thousands who are expected to stream into the Icelandic labour market for the next loss and years?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for directing this inquiry to me, on the staff authority and social subservation, and on whether I consider the surveillance of staff rents to be satisfactory. A labour agency is monitoring that employees and foreign companies, who send their workers to the country to provide service here, follow the laws and regulations relevant to such activities and fall under the Agency's topic areas. Under this supervision the Agency operates, among other things, under the law of No. 139/2005, on employee rent, and on law No. 45/2007, on the rights and duties of foreign companies, who temporarily send employees to Iceland and their employees' salary. I'm aware that the labour oce is closely involved in this relationship with other government agencies associated with control, such as the tax authorities and the government workaholics, as well as the labour market. Among them are joint surveillance visits at the workplace that have led to some success. I believe that the Agency's work programme provides supervision as well as it can on the basis of its legal legislation and the financial resources intended for the management of the Agency at any given time. However, I believe it is important that all persons who are involved in the workforce monitoring, whether in the public or company of the labour market, come together to ensure that the foreign workers who come here, in order to participate in a domestic labour market, enjoy the salary and employment documents as the local labour agreements and agreements expect. As Ministers, I do not have the law to take direct action against social directives, but I believe it is very important to ensure that social subsidies do not engage in Icelandic labour markets. That's what I think we all, who sit here in this room, can agree. I trust the officials who have been given the job of eliminating social subsidiary and that I must be made aware of the need to come for further evidence so that the interviewers can do their jobs in an acceptable way. This is how I have already requested to consider whether or not the right to make changes in the laws under my topic field in this regard, such as the labour agency's resources for monitoring as well as action when necessary. Then I am still stressing the cooperation of the Ministry with the Labour Office, the tax authorities, the labour market parties and other agencies involved in the management of labour markets. Otherwise, we will not succeed. In terms of the funds spent on social substitution and the number of posts needed to handle it, I have received the information from the head of the employment agency that at the Agency's office operates two employees who, among other things, monitor their employees and foreign companies, are sending their workers to this country in order to perform this service. Whether it is enough or not, time must be revealed and not least followed by the trend in terms of the number of foreign workers in the labour market. I'm not unlikely to increase the number of workers at the labour oce on a job market, especially on the increase in the number of foreign workers on construction and construction projects, as well as on the services provided by tourists. In this regard, I request that in the new workforce report, the job market status and prospects in 2016-2018, the Agency, among other things, assumes that foreign citizens of the local labour market will be about 19,700 in 2018, thus increasing by about 2,000 people since 2015. I think I can claim here that the public parties are going, will and are standing up together with the labour market officials that there are existing laws and agreements in the domestic labour market. That is where cooperation with the labour market is very important. At the same time, we are eager to see that companies working in this country will better see the benefits of respecting the collective agreements and the laws in place rather than surrounding the rules that have been agreed so that they do not need to test the surveillance clearances that are in the past. In the final analysis, it must be most successful for all parties, and especially in the long term, both professional and financial, the most practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u25	President. It's a very important matter that this inquiry is about. It stands for us as a civilized society that these things are all right and that the people who come to work for a while when we need labor force to sit at the same table as others and not get in the position of being in some kind of slave camp. This is an important matter. I understand the highest. The minister so that he will observe this and trust the system we have come up to take care of all of this. I really hope that the system is worthwhile, but unfortunately, we've seen a gap in it. I encourage her to keep a close eye on this subject and to offer compensation if she seems to need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u26	A respectable president. Workforce leaders who know best about the workforce have said that the leg is fine, but there was a lack of money and control. What informs the highest. Ministers to us around here? I understand that two employees have part of their mission to monitor the thousands of foreign workers here and the thousands of people here to come, in cases that must probably be human rights, in matters that violate all competitive positions in the country, in cases that make people fail to understand taxes, in cases where human rights are broken against people's human rights and human contracts that apply to Iceland. Do we feel that it is enough for two employees to have this as part of their work? What does that mean? That there is a man in half a job working on these affairs all over the country, at work in tourism and construction, even to the highlands that need to be monitored? I encourage the Minister to carefully review whether or not there is a suggestion to increase money and increase the population level with the number of employees who will clearly be here this year and the next, if this is true of growth in the economy that is looking, and we must hope to go on.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u27	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion and again thank you for my questions. I'd like to repeat what I said in my reply, that I have already requested to be examined for and in what way to make changes in the law that falls under my topic range in terms of the labour agency's resources for monitoring as well as action when necessary. I also reiterate that in my mind it's a partnership. We will never be able to ensure that the labour market is primarily monitored by the workforce at the labour oce. Rather, we can cooperate with a three- sided team that identifies the Icelandic labour market, i.e. unions, government and professional drivers, to ensure that the workforce is followed by laws and regulations. When it comes to business and business management, we know that most people are willing to do as well as they possibly can to their employees and follow the laws and regulations in this country. However, we know that there are always individual companies, individuals who do not. We'll need a system to monitor it. I have made these emphasis clear to the head of the workforce and have had a good meeting with the front of ASI to accept their tips and review this emphasis with me. This is bright ahead of the Icelandic labour market. We will need more people who want to be involved in the construction work in Iceland, and it is important that we welcome them and make sure that their rights are not violated.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u28	V.E.G. President. I've done what we're dealing with people who are getting money from the social security system for conversation at the highest level. Department of Social Affairs, former Parliament. In review of this case, the system operates as a person earns full rights to pay from the social security system at the age of 40 while living in the country at the age of 18◯67. However, those who have been living abroad are paid part of their lives. The system is based on the fact that people who have served abroad won rights in their former habitats and receive money from abroad that will be added to the relative rights people have here. The fact is, however, that for many reasons, people do not always receive payment from their previous home country and thus have only the Icelandic stock compensation for their implementation. When I had a word on this subject at the highest. Last year's minister referred to her waiting for proposals from the Committee on Social Security. That committee has not yet yielded suggestions. But what matters primarily to them in this context is that the committee is simply not going to offer specific suggestions for the improvement. So it is not possible to refer to this committee for a solution to this subject. The law on social assistance says, with permission of presidents: If it is found that a pensioner is unable to support himself without it, it is considered acceptable to pay a pension due to costs that cannot be paid or improved in some other way. It also says: The secretary is authorized to set up a regulations for further implementation. That's this further project I want to discuss in particular with the highest level. Minister today. It is true that individuals who receive paid dues in the social security system are also paid compensations of pensions. The result, then, will be the nature of the case according to the fact that arrangements are only part of what has been defined as minimal progress. However, there is no law on social services that requires that these be paid for 40 years. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if it is considered an option for decommissioning or revising 3 mg. Section 15. Penalties and Pension Directives, No. 1052/2009, who insists that a specific extension will be met in accordance with the country's farm, as described above. 1.mg. 17th par. 4 mg. 18th par. the law on social security, in view of the fact that the purpose of the social assistance law is, of course, ensuring all defined minimal progress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u29	A respectable president. Thank you for the inquiry as long as possible. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir has been directed to me on the provision of a special supply according to the country's residence. The senator asks whether it is possible to cancel or revise Article 3. Section 15. Penalties and Pension Directives, No. 1052/2009, who insists that a specific extension should be paid according to the country's residence. As mentioned in the inquiry, appear in Article 15. The Regulation shall require that specific details be calculated in accordance with Article 1. 17th par. 4 mg. 18th par. Act on social security. These terms discuss the relative labour of the rights to social security but the agreed Regulation for implementing both social assistance and social security legislation. The global insurance system is built up in a way that allows those living here to gain the right amount to the period of residence. Thus, those who have lived in this country will receive 40 years of full rights, while those who have lived here will gain a lower proportion of rights. In the case of a microenergy pension, the time to the 67th year of life of the applicant is included in the calculation leading to a higher level of rights. Thus, it would require a minimum residence for social security rights, which would be inappropriate in my opinion and would undermine the social security system so far that people from around the country could come from countries that gave less social assistance than would be guaranteed here on land to enjoy the social security system and receive assistance. If a full supplement without a proportional calculation was to be paid above the proportion of acquired pension rights, e.g. On top of a minimum course of 3/40 complete, all pensioners living here would remember full pay from social security entirely regardless of the duration of their residence on land. Only their income could have an effect on the relief. Interestingly, then we would have put off the rights focus system in the social security that has been at the hands of a nation since social security has been established. Like what? One senator noted that the social security committee completes its work. Based on the information I've received, it's true. A member of the body says that there will be no position on changes in this regard. Thus, the ideologies of rightness are based in harmony with their habitat. Asking why. A senator also says that a purpose of social assistance is to ensure that all defined minimal progress is established. However, the Ministry's opinion is that this is not correct. It is a matter of specific support to certain groups of people, including pensioners, under specific circumstances. The payment is a warrant, and it should be determined every time to determine whether or not the terms of the law are met for that payment, including from income of individuals. I also stress that it must not be forgotten that the social security system is one of the several systems that make up the Icelandic welfare system. In accordance with their circumstances, rural society is responsible for providing financial and social security for its inhabitants. If people who live here are not able to advance themselves by earnings, including those which they have a right to pay under social security laws and social assistance laws and by paying from the payment fund, they can turn to the social services of their farm society and ask for further assistance. That's what happened to you. In my earlier comments, I told a senator that I had hoped that the committee would discuss it in detail, but it is true, at least to this conclusion. The rights focus system in social security remains on the basis of existing proposals for a new social security system.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u30	A respectable president. I have before, under this program, wondered at the answers made by the minister. The answers are usually due to the minister's giving a long talk and to repeat a speech to a leader I think are unnecessary, at least for us who sit in here and also for the history of Congress, you can read them together. However, I understood from the minister that the answer to the question posed to her would be no. The committee that has been working does not suggest any changes in this group, which certainly need to be addressed. It's a problem upstairs. It is clear that members of the community cannot be referred to social services. It's just like back in the day, showing people where they're from. They need to be provided too, and I understand that, so the minister is not going to make any suggestions on this subject, since the committee did not.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u31	V.E.G. President. I understood the answer to the highest. Ministers also, in effect, would be saying no, that in her mind it would not be possible to revise 3 mgr. Section 15. Pension regulations for domestic remuneration and pension improvements. I am disappointed that even though it is technically correct, it is at its height. A minister says that possibly here, people from countries with worse social security systems are the system we live in today so that Icelanders who live in Iceland have a very serious situation, including this Regulation. I am deeply concerned about this group and think it is absolutely necessary for us to consider how we can improve his social status. It is simply in my opinion that a social security system, which is designed to include a group of people in the community to enjoy terms that are far below all the standards for forwardation. Social aid law states that benefits of social assistance are only acceptable to those with a legal home in this country. However, I would like to reiterate what I said in my earlier talk that there is nothing in these laws that the person had to live here for 40 years in order to be entitled to these benefits. [[The president calls.]] I simply believe that we here at the Generals must resolve to adapt the status of these people. [[The president calls.]] There's no way there's a system-based group that will have to live in poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u32	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. In connection with the comments that fell here, I just want to say that I think it's very important that we don't speak down the support systems we have in our community. It is a very professional and social service that the rural community provides on the basis of social services laws and works to ensure the financial and social security of its inhabitants in accordance with the law and the circumstances of the day. I think it's important that we take the step back to the negative attitudes that have been throughout the years to the assistance our communities have been providing. The global security system is, as I mentioned, only one part of the systems we have and have created that form the Icelandic welfare system. Whatever it is. A senator asked about was one of my social security committees. There are a number of good suggestions now, and they are developing cohesion on changes to the social security system for the benefit of various groups. I believe that it must be my job, because I have entrusted a large and powerful group to offer suggestions to improve systems, to work with them as well as with the suggestions I can in the framework given by the General Assembly. I will.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u33	Mr. President. Long-term mechanical therapy prolongs the life of patients with respiratory impairment. It is a matter of justice that Icelandic patients who need and choose long-term mechanical treatment can have it and that it is necessary to provide support, assistance, and equipment. In this country, the quality of life of patients has not been as good as possible. There is a lack of qualified personnel to assist in the patient's home, and there is no possibility of resting where there is a need for specialised personnel. The period of waiting for communication equipment is long and training in the use of it is lacking. It would be best for one member of the management board to be responsible for the patient's service in order to prevent the inefficiency that results from the need for patients to consult many places for their release. Governments need to talk, and the Ministry needs to do the same. It is completely unacceptable that subjects should be driven between persons who do not appear to be talking to each other and who do not take into account the patient's needs from all sides. It must be integrated into social and health care. Governments and rural groups must cooperate, and within this cooperation there are Social Ministry and Health Ministry. In this country, there are 10◯15 people who need a respirator 24 hours a day to survive. Most important, qualified personnel are present, whether in a household or in a resting - room setting. The patient must be followed by personnel where he or she is at any time. Both possibilities must be considered, i.e. that the patient can be at home with 24 hours of assistance if desired and that the patient is at rest where the staff also has 24 hours of follow-up. Of course, if a patient has to go to a hospital for a long time, it must be like other people who will be able to go home whenever possible but who will not lose their services because of hospital care. Since patients may need assistance with expression, it is very important to ensure that a communication device is in time and that the equipment is installed correctly. The training of equipment must always be part of the process immediately following the induction. According to my sources, the more necessary measures, the more needed help, and the more needed, but I've requested answers from the highest level. Healthcare Minister for the following questions: Is it now possible to offer 24 hours of treatment to patients who require long-term mechanical ventilation for their endotracheal tube treatment in their home? Is it possible to obtain help from qualified personnel in the household of patients in everyday life as needed? Is it possible for patients who need assistance to communicate without waiting for the device or training? Is there an active home for resting hospitalisation that has specialised personnel to be given to patients who care for them?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the four questions she explained. I want to specify it first with regard to the first question, whether it is possible to offer long-term mechanical ventilation to patients in their home for 24 hours, to ensure the safety of the patient requiring long-term mechanical ventilation, the patient must have his or her carer on the side of the day. Caring for such patients at home is in the hands of those who have been trained to treat the patient's endotracheal tube, other needs, as well as the ventilation needed by these patients. The day - to - day service in a home requires the nature of the situation according to the entrance of many, and it is most common for patients to receive personal assistance that is social resources, for which an individual has applied. In addition, individuals have received direct financial support from rural areas to cover the expenses of daily care. These patients also enjoy health care at home. The majority of this service is home nursing, but there is also the family physician and local hospital with guidance and counselling, as well as emergency management if necessary. The hospitals will supervise the ventilation and teach patients to care for their patients. Second, it was asked if it could now be possible to receive assistance from qualified personnel in everyday life in the household of patients as needed. I believe that most of my answers to my previous question have been answered by health care professionals, but I would like to know that health professionals do not have a regular presence in the patient's home. However, there are cases of such staff showing up to six times a day to severely ill individuals and individuals with similar complex health problems, and each visit can last for up to two hours each time. The third question remains whether patients who need assistance to communicate are available for communication technology and training in their use without having to wait for devices or training. In the 2015 Social Affairs Minister's Management Programme, funds were provided to be followed in four or five people with sophisticated communication equipment that require special guidance and support. These are experimental projects that are being carried out in collaboration with the relief centre of Iceland's Medical Insurance. According to my information, this project is still being carried out, making a point of evaluating how such assistance and support will best be applied to the future. Fourth and final, it was asked whether there was a home for resting - time insurgents who would have specialized staff to provide care for patients who would care for them. In many homes, there are those who live at home for the arrival of a resting - time hospital. However, there is no specialised nursing home to provide special services to certain patient groups, such as these or others. In my answer to my first question, why? I reported that to ensure the patient's long-term safety of a ventilator, the patient needs a caregiver at his side all day. To answer, no nursing home has such design from day to day, being able to have an employee attached to the care of one patient 24 hours a day. If such needs and such wishes were to be observed, it must be considered on a case-by-case basis. As services are being performed in nursing homes today, it must be taken up with certain operators where they want to live or where there is room to rest. A respectable president. I hope this has at one time answered questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u35	V.E.G. President. I'd like to get involved in this discussion, but even if it may be on the surface of technical health care, it will come into play on other factors. V.E.G. A minister came in his response to NPA, a user - controlled personal help, which he identified as social resources. That's where I'll take advice earlier. A minister is suggesting that this is the case at the highest level. Secretary of society and housing. However, it is now that people's lives, as is true of those with chronic diseases, are intertwined but not divided by what is suitable for the Council of Control. [[The president calls.]] I think it crystals in this request that there must always be a whole lot of thought on these matters. I want it to be directed to the highest. Minister that while these cases are cut between two advisers, speak to the highest. Ministers together, finding a solution to the possibility of a life that is long - suffering. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. In his reply, I felt that it was very clear to me that there must be both social and health care involved. It is not only the state that needs to have something to say about this but also the communities. I think that's where the knife stands. There seems to be no one particular person within the system who controls the use of government and the ministry. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to correct myself if I'm wrong and then tell me who it is inside the system that stands out for the people's interests. I'm sure it's the highest. The minister agrees that if an individual can choose to be treated with a endotracheal ventilator, the extension and quality of life must be ensured, whether for the patients or for the caregivers. For the council there is an arrangement where members of the General Assembly suggest that a health minister be held in charge of the people's interests and put together as a group to shape suggestions for home service, household management for restation and communication, and training in their use. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether he has examined this synopsis, although it has not been established on the program and if he does not consider it necessary and timely to establish such a team to keep the interest of the people and to make sure that those who choose this route are subject to the process and will be kept out of the interest of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u37	A respectable president. I appreciate the comments that have been made here. I think it's the solutions and the specific thresholds that are contained in these services. However, I would like to state that the community at the Ministry of Health and the Health Department is a good conversation, as well as the work I had within the past, which is the cooperation of these two parties in communication technology, where the relief center of Iceland's Medical Insurance is involved in the implementation of a program for disabled persons. It is also true, as it were. The apocalyptic has a reputation, and turns to the transition between state and rural society, that the reality is that there are simply too many gray areas where each party can point to another, dismissing actions, etc. It's just that way. I have experienced many experiences in coping with such gray areas, especially when I was in rural affairs at one time. Then we took over the affairs of the disabled and worked with them for the first time, and this brought great improvement. I've read a proposal for a hearing quoted here, studied its contents, really doesn't know how it's going to work. It is up to the council, a respectable president, how this matter angers. I have every right to participate in the discussion when it becomes because there are certain factors there that I believe must be involved in larger planning and more planning changes in government and rural operations than is expected. I will support the more focused on the transition between the state and the group of members of this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u38	Mr. President. On July 1, last year, the General approved the following resolution: The Council concludes to hide environmental and resource ministers in order to find ways to reduce plastic sachet use in this country. We choose a way to reach other European countries, where plastic bags have been effectively reduced. The plan will be published by March 1, 2015. A report says: ▪ Over the decades, a great awakening has been made in the community on environmental protection and recycling. Intensification of information flows and technologicalisation has greatly increased the recycling of used dressings. [...] It is well - known that plastic bags and other plastic containers of food and chemical products will have a negative impact on the environment. Plastic increases the demand for oil and slowly breaks down in the wild. It is estimated that, on average, each individual in the European Union uses some 500 plastic bags a year, most of them only once. [...] Light plastic bags are generally not used more than once, but they may be hundreds of years old, often in the form of tiny plastic particles that can be harmful to nature to form for the marine environment. In this way, ocean currents have embalmed plastic particles from plastic bags and other items of huge skins in the Pacific, the Atlantic, and the Indian Ocean. Plastrus in the ocean may also have a substantial cost of plastic disposal that is entangled in fishing instruments, screws, etc. It is estimated that 8 billion plastic bags in the trash in Europe end annually, resulting in serious environmental consequences. A recent report from VOLV says that if you say that you see plastic more than fish in the ocean in 2050. The story says, with permission from the President: ▪ A standard dish into a plastic trash that floats through the oceans. If this is not reversed, after a few decades, more plastics than ocean fish become. This is the conclusion of the new World Economic Forum Report. More than one third of all plastic containers end up in the wild, causing damage to ecosystems. Only 14% of plastics are collected for recycling, but more than 58% of paper and 70◯90% of iron and steel. The report has one ton of plastics for every five tons of fish [...] experts report that not all hope, new materials and technology can help with the development and a great deal of work is being done in the recycling of plastics. Mr. President. Simple measures may have a significant impact on the environment over a long period of time. Any plastic bag that skimmers into the wind can begin with a long, dramatic event that would not have started if further emphasis had been placed on preventive measures at the beginning. That's why I'm asking the highest. Environment and resource minister: What is the implementation of a synonym to reduce plastic sachet usage approved on July 1?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u39	A respectable president. Plastic paper bags are widely used because they are thin, light, and last well. The duration of a plastic bag, however, creates the most environmental impact of its use because of a very slow decline in the environment. Although used only once, they can remain in the environment for a period of 100 years, as observed by the prime speaker. They are degraded into plastics that can later be spread to soil, water and sea and are harmful to life, food chain and ecosystems. So plastic use creates a high level of pollution and can bring great financial and financial cost. The Environment and Resource Ministry now has three solutions in this field for discussion. First, the EEA has proposed a strategy and measures aimed at reducing the use of plastic bags in Iceland. Second, the change in Directive No. 94/62 EB for reduction of light carrier plastic bags responsible for the management of Member States to reduce the use of standard plastic bags. These are called standard shopping bags and vegetables bags. Third, at the General Assembly last July, an agreement was adopted to reduce the use of plastic bags. It says that the General concluded to hide the environmental and resource secretary ways to reduce the use of plastic bags in this country and to select ways to reach other European countries where plastic sachet use has been progressively reduced. A minister has appointed a group of work men to develop suggestions for effective use of plastic bags. The population should be aimed at reducing the use of FFF bags to achieve 90 plastic bags per person by the end of 2019 and 40 plastic bags by the end of 2025. One way at work is to be seen, as mentioned earlier, as a political arrangement to reduce the use of plastics approved at the General Assembly last July. Secondly, changes in the EEA contracts due to plastic bags use are and thirdly the EEA's proposal on how to work policies and measures aimed at reducing the use of plastic bags on land. The group should also evaluate whether or what controls could benefit from achieving the target, for example, the prohibition on the use of plastic bags, or the taxation of plastic bags, packaging subsidies that would replace them, the use of economic motivation for green synthesis in a plastic industry, etc. The staff should also review plastic bags as well as public and professional access to pathways that can improve circuits. Finally, the work group should assess the potential cost of the activities proposed and appoint the responsible for each procedure. The task force will be represented by the EEA, the European Union of Iceland, the Association of Industrial Affairs and Trade and Services, and the Department of Environment and Resources, which will direct this task force. The staff should refer to the parties to be discussed, such as consumer organisations, the representative of the low products and the representative of the business services and the garbage community. The Personnel shall submit a report to the Minister with a proposal to proceed no later than June 15 June 2016. I certainly hope that an invitation, or even a ban on the use of less plastics, prompts thinkers, or pioneers, of new technology on packaging. It is now precisely the time to respond to the protection of life on both land and sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u40	V.E.G. President. This is an enormously important debate here on how to reduce the use of plastic bags. I would like to expand it and just say plastic usage. However, plastic bags are certainly a very large part of the plastic usage. As shown in the speech of a man. Foreman as well as in reply to the highest. A minister is extremely well aware of the damage done to plastic. I don't think we need to discuss the harmful effects of plastic in nature. Like a snooze. There is also a precipitating trace of how much plastic is already in the ocean, as well as what the prospects are, that will be as much of a ton of plastic as fish in the year 2050. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to say to the minister: I think we must take this discussion very quickly. [[The president calls.]] It's good that a team has been appointed, but we have to work fast in this subject because we're actually getting late.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u41	Mr. President. I have to say just as it is that I don't feel acceptable how slow this goes. There are many countries, both in Europe and elsewhere, who have banned plastic bags of use as a first step in this case. I was in India in the fall of 2012, and in the states where I left, plastic bags had already been banned in that large country. Of course, big countries are being looked to for the consequences of all these things, but we are not supposed to be some lame postboats. Of course, we are to do what we can in this matter, and it is very simple. It's very simple. The use of plastic bags can be balanced and the experience in other countries can be considered. For example, in Europe it is Ireland, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, and Italy. The report that I quoted earlier and was recently in the U.S.R. was the World Economic Council's Report on the plastic problem in the ocean. It follows a historic agreement that was established at the European climate conference in Paris in December and the highest. A minister knows the outcome. The objective is that the earth will not rise by more than two degrees in this century, and all efforts will be made to keep warm below one and a half degrees warm and at the same time reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We know that the production of plastic has a lot to say. Now the situation is that every minute a garbage truck of plastic bags is flushed in the ocean. [[The president calls.]] The problem is growing. As one container said, we must be able to do better. Shouldn't we have more water than plastic in the ocean, right?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-01-25-66.u42	A respectable president. I thank you for the comments and discussions, and I cannot help but wholeheartedly agree with those members of the council who have spoken about the time to respond. The waters are extremely precious to us, and we have recently heard about the plastic there. It's in the dumps of the ocean, and it's discovered that it's not only fish but also birds. So I can't agree more. I have stated from this platform that years ago, ten or 15 years ago, I traveled through Sweden and witnessed the country's Swedish housewives washing the plastic bags, and they were out there on cords. I found this to be very helpful and thought - provoking. I'm not calling for it. The pace in Iceland is usually such that I don't think people would ever do that. But I think there are other ways that you can find that you can take instead of using the plastic to this extent. You start thinking yourself. I'm beginning to think more about plastic bags use, I can feel it in my own skin, and I hope the debate spreads more. I stressed that we tried to work fast and hard in this, that I'm going to get this report on my birthday for the summer.
