ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u1	A respectable president. Here is a very high degree of justice, basic, first step toward making the patient's position even better than today's medical system. We are making our greatest payments on people who have often suffered marvelously for the ostentatious, inhuman payment system that has been in the United States for far too long. Happily, the fundamental change is made in terms of great reconciliation. Out on it goes the bill. On the other hand, there are regulations that call for the administration's sentence to be paid. We've managed to do that. On the contrary, we agreed to spend more money on health care to prepare for this project more fully. We also reached an agreement to better finance the payment factor, with the objective of lowering the roofs and reducing the treatment of patients. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I rejoice and thank you for the great solidarity of this national action.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to commend the highest. Healthcare Minister for taking the initiative and trusting himself to enter here with a primary health - care service bill, a long-term change. We've been happy all along. Our concern for this matter has always been about two things; that it would not be enough to make the building of our health care facilities and that the roofs of payment would be too high. Therefore, I especially want to rejoice that the government has reached the table yesterday and is thus approaching us. So we can deal with this, and we are very proud to have had the success of developing health - care funds and recruiting doctors, nurses, and psychologists and that the roof of payment will be reduced dramatically. That's a lot of results. I want to congratulate all of us on him.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u3	Mr. President. It is a joy to see that at the General Assembly, there have been some fundamental changes to put a roof on the patient's payment, which is an enormous national contract, and to promote health care as the first stop and to take up a reference system. I think it was very important what happened in the final meters, where it was decided to place extra funding on the project, on the one hand, to promote health care and to lower the roof. Of course, our priorities should be that money - stricken people do not have to delay getting necessary health care. I really hope that these changes will be an important stage in this process. It is a pleasure to experience the work that has been done here and the peace that has been achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u4	A respectable president. I think it's a big moment because it's a big deal of justice that simply goes on that people who are ill don't have to carry excessive financial burdens on health care. It also means that the rest of us, who are fortunate enough to enjoy better health, have to pay more. I started this work at the time, and the reason was simply that I had been approached by a woman who had little to do, but she was optimistic and positive, far too young, explaining what the arrangement was for herself and other cancer patients, and she asked me to start this work. I hid them. Councilmen of Blöndalur H. Bömpanal and Ásta Ragnhömri, Ragnheiður's Jóhannesdóttir, did their obligatory work. I'm sorry, they didn't finish the job, but now it's finished. I want to take this opportunity and wish you the highest. Minister, please. The welfare committee and the Senate are happy to meet together on this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u5	President. What a joy it is to have a roof on the patient's load of payment! I hope that they will be held on a level that has come to the conclusion that this is often the case in the case of large and extensive system changes that shortly after the law takes effect, there is a possibility that some may fall apart. I've sensed a strong will from the Ministry and the War State Department. Ministers that they will be quick and effective. I like to know because, of course, people often get nervous when they make big changes. There's a lot of good stuff on the bill. I must commend him. The welfare committee for the huge issues she has worked on and cooperated with. It should be the top story tomorrow, how in favor of the nation's national important affairs, in favor of members of Congress. Congratulations on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u6	Mr. President. How happy we are that we have reached the final payment of this matter! I'm thinking that this could be a small day in the history of health health care in the country when, in this part of the transpiritian community, there are steps initiated on the health - care provider or reference system and set up roofs at the excessive expense that individual persons have carried in the medical system. Three things are enjoyable. This is the strategy of the Service Management Board, it's the roof, and it's the financial resources that accorded to secure the system, both to promote the health care facilities, to this year and to the budget of the next year, so that the general cost gap will not exceed 50 of yours can be guaranteed. K. This is a good conclusion, and I congratulate everyone, both those who have contributed to its fulfillment, but especially the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u7	V.E.G. President. I thank all those who have been involved in this case on the welfare committee. I'd especially like to wish for the highest. The health minister is happy for this stage and thanks to the highest degree. Secretary of the budget for the great understanding of the grand work ahead of us. I'm glad we can agree on a great deal during the council. We do well to agree that we want a powerful health system. It's good that we agree that our weakest people do not have to face up to having to pay insurmountable high bills. In here we can be proud of the step we take today. At least I know that my late Blöndal H. Bjöll would be very pleased with him today. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u8	V.E.G. President. I come here to express my satisfaction with the conclusions in this matter. It's a big deal, and, of course, you would have wanted children to be completely free of charge in the health system, and that older citizens and desperate people paid 1/3 of what others pay, which will be the next step we take. I trust we'll take them. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of health and the highest. Secretary of finance for their intervention in the matter, bringing in money on their latest scale. I think that all those who were born can also be attributed to the leading authority of the case, please. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, for an amazing job. She has been awake and asleep in the matter during the last days and has shown what she can do. I'd also like to say that this case tells us and shows us what we are capable of at the International Parliament. The fact that we've agreed on five big cases from a welfare committee, one of the biggest cases in the government, on the basis of all matters, is a great achievement, I think, in these last and worst times. I congratulate all of us on that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u9	There's a lot of praise here. Healthcare Minister and I will not reduce my components of it. He is to be commended for taking the initiative to contribute this bill. It is historic in many ways, cutting off one of the worst probes on the Icelandic health system. But this matter, as it does now, also shows how important it is to have a powerful government stand. It is especially the work of the government that made it possible for this bill to be approved. It was because of her attitude that was applied to the total number of over 400 to 5,500 million. K. ... witha health care of 1,200 million. K. to reduce the roofs of payment. It is marvelous that the 95 of yours was managed by the work of the Committee to lower the payment roof. K. of 50 up. K. For me, as an old orchick, it's great to stand here and see the highest. Health Ministers and all of us sail to port the old conflict between Sighvatur son of Björgvinsson, the reference system. In particular, I would like to congratulate my beloved friends in the Independence Party on having helped to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u10	A respectable president. I now recommend a bill to legalize the exchange of currency laws, the CREEP legislation that depend on the specific restrictions and the law on a special tax on a financial enterprise. The bill has a direct connection with the government's budget for the release of capital stocks, but its main purpose is to legalize Iceland's Secret Bank using a control device to regulate and influence the assembly of capital flows to the country, a so-called cash flow system. The legalization of any precautionary device associated with the waxing trade has been considered in the government for some time. Such transactions, as we know, can cause a imbalance in the real economy and in the financial system and interfere with the implementation of normal financial and financial management. We've been discussing at the council just how we might have legalized rules like this, what they might be like. For a long time, we have come to realize that we could again face a growth trade in the way we saw happening here before the collapse of the financial system and as the economic system has grown again, they will again appear to us on an increasing scale. We have seen the last loss of a wax trade, however, to a much lower degree than before. In view of the future, it seems that it is quite good for the council to agree that it is time to make such rules. In the context of this discussion, I allow myself to refer to the committee on the basis of a law that we have recently recently introduced to the Council on the treatment of the Croncies that depend on our specific limitations. On the contrary, it presented the view that now is the time to make such rules. I'd like to say, though, that for so many reasons I'd have chosen that the council would have had the circumstances to weigh and evaluate and deepen the discussion of these factors in a better void and had more time than we could offer with the presentation that was presented here to us, i.e. When we begin to take summer breaks from council service, we put together a bill on the material in a narrow time frame. As for a contemporaneous spirit, I will first say that I would have liked things to be different, and more time would be given for a deeper consideration of these factors. For this reason, I have thought about whether the matter had to be further considered, and therefore in some cooperation between the classes, before it arrived here at the council. At the same time, we will not be overlooked as evidence that this aspect of international commerce is coming back to life. There are various indications that there is a basis for paying attention to this again, for which there was a reasonable reason. In particular, this is because we are in the middle of a dynamic economy, and it is at the end of this period of living. For this reason, I present this matter at the council and suggest that the rules of the matter be set up and legalized as soon as possible. The alternative was to wait until autumn, but I believe that this step will be taken. The bill suggests that the Shared Bank is authorized to lay down regulations that require binding of cash due to certain new investors, depositors and loans made for a new foreign currency insurmountation. This is an influx, especially in the form of bonds and new bank accounts, where buyers look for short - term benefits from growth between Iceland and other countries. So the bank can give general government omissions that include the obligation to tie cash that may study up to 75% of the exchange in the bank account at a national banking facility, to a maximum of five years. The head of the budget shall continue to contribute the amount of money equal to the entire amount of binding on an account at the Bank of Iceland. The bill suggests that the regulation is subject to financial and economic approval and that the authority to apply it will be set up in temporary legal requirements on currency, as there is a temporary disposal that takes into account the current requirement for currency expenditure. I'm just gonna talk about these two things for a minute. Whether the rules of this kind should be above the head is considered to be subject to the approval of a minister. It may also be wondered if such a possible consent might be implemented in another way. I'll put the case in this suit before the council and encourage the members of the Economic and Business Committee to consider this aspect. Generally, I'd like to say about this point that I don't think it's advisable when the application of this kind of resource is in order for the minister to arrive. On the other hand, this time we are in a somewhat short supply of preparation and limited consultation. Similarly, we are setting provision temporarily into a code of laws that we expect to review before long. When it comes to reevaluating the law, I realize that it is wearing some other suit or similar rules, depending on the assessment of the time, into the U.S. Seurla Bank, that they will be examined as to what resources and in which form to be offered to the Office to achieve these goals. In time, I feel quite clear that we would not have such a rule as a permanent law against the Minister's consent. These are just viewpoints that I add to the discussion and encourage men to consider the committee. There is nothing obvious about what is right. I think it might be an option to expand the article so that a minister's approval would be required at the outset, but changes after the rules have been set could be applied without consulting the minister. There is a valid view that the late bat makes these decisions alone. For one thing, it is easy to refer to the independence of the Council Bank for support. The main evidence that it's all put in this way is that we're actually stepping in here on new lands. We are responding to a discussion that has been more or less persistent for about a decade, since we saw the Book of Revelation peaked many years ago. We have entered the council with this solution, and for the first reason, it is set up like this, and then again, with the suggestion that there is a provisional principle. The budget in this bill is based on setting up regulations that require the binding of cash for a new inlets, as I have previously traced a foreign currency of a given kind. The rules include Set the time of binding, the binding rate, the change and interest. The expansion of the sheep supply system takes into account that the management agency reduces the risk that a substantial financial stream can create and support other aspects of national management. The device is also flexible, targeted, and efficient. Finally, it is based on a temporary, transparent, and established way of affecting capital flow. In the bill it is thus assumed that the Councilman has the authority to set more rules on the implementation of the treasure equipment and if circumstances change, he can quickly adapt to the approval of a minister. It is expected that in the immediate follow-up of this bill, if it does happen, there will be rules published by the National Bank on the topic. I expect the Committee can get more information on this in a review of the matter. The implementation of this budget is in line with the general counseling of the International Remuneration Fund on the design of instruments to curb excessive capital influx. Care is taken to ensure that the binding is directly involved in the growth metabolism and can be handled effectively by changing circumstances. I'd like to note that among those who had a special opinion in preparing the case was how far the matter should be, how diverse the investments might depend on the rules. This is a bill, so it is specifically included in what we know as a wax trade, especially in the bonds of debt. The farest example is the government bonds, but this is discussed in Article 2. The bill. It reviews the investments in bonds, bills, and deeps and then in other articles in things that reflect such investments, such as credit cards, which practice such investments. It is the same thing in this context as it would be if a part of a society that is going to have such activity, buying it, or earning it for itself is the same. The bill also suggests a single change in the law on a special tax on a financial enterprise in terms of the binding level established by the UN Bank's earlier regulations as a deduction force from the source of the tax. In daily speaking, this tax has been called a bank tax. This change is because the aim of a new provisional law on currency is mainly to regulate and affect the composition of capital flows, not to create income stock for the state. It follows that the binding level would not become a tax base. I'd also like to mention that with the bill, there are several changes in the laws on the treatment of CREEP, which depend on the specific limitations. These recently created laws change with the bill, but they're based on information from stakeholders after law-enforcement and they're in favor of them. These are points that were not foreordained at the preparation of the case and are suggested for better use. First, there is the change to meet the national creditors whose depositors have been transferred into accounts dependent on the specific limits for Iceland's Sensitor's currency tenders. In order to ensure the equality of consumers for the provision of their assets, it is suggested that assessment of these accounts, due to participation in the currency market on the other hand, and due to investments in certain financial contributions, be allowed. Second, it is suggested that the countries of the country, based on written applications received by Iceland's Sensitive Act on the possession of the foreign legislation for depositors, be killed outside the scope of their law. The latter case consists mostly of small amounts of money that have been continuously owned by individuals from which to capitalists, i.e. of November 28, 2008, and would have been subject to the target of the money originally assigned to Article 12. the bill to correct the treatment of Croncies that depend on the specific limitations, i.e. 6,000,000 k. The goal there. Third, it is suggested that the owners of national property be allowed to invest in the financial gains made on the Bank of Iceland at any given time. Thus, there is room for what is now available. A respectable president. I believe it is necessary for the General Assembly to ensure that governments will be allowed to reduce the risk of significant influx following the completion of the currency discharges due to national property and the preparation of public emissions. Otherwise, the economic stability that has been built up in recent losses and years may be threatened. As I have mentioned earlier, we look forward to a growing interest in an investment in Iceland not only because these are well received at this time but also because in many other places, there is a problem with making money, there is an enormous amount in the world's financial systems that will not be produced at this time. It is obvious in these situations that we need to respond to the risk that such ventures will again increase. At the beginning of my speech, I attributed that we have been on the program at the council many times, whether or not, to prevent the turmoil that such capitalism can bring in and out of the country in a short time. This bill review reviews a relatively detailed way that short - term movement in and out of the country does not provide much benefit to the economy above our heads, and it can primarily cause us to become troubled and to fuel instability while other sources of capitals are in place to invest in the longer term. I encourage all interested persons to study the paper with the bill that reviews all these factors quite in detail. A respectable president. I believe we have in the hands of suggestions that a control device that can matter much to our potential to increase our stability in the country, but as I have previously said in a discussion of these matters, they will never be like a magic wand that will solve all our problems, all our worries. Of course, there are other factors that will eventually have much more to do with it. I can mention in terms of how public finance is being conducted, how money policy projects are carried out, and how public finance and financial policies speak together. Let me also mention in the context of the state of government - and - work markets of the day. Tension in this field can result in much damage and end during a period of inflation that produces growth and attracts interest in this business, so it is in itself a response device that is a little more than we can build up. We've done the other defenses, I'm talking about official financial laws and contracts with our rural society, I'm covering the cooperation of the labour market on the development of the SALEK Convention and the equalisation of the pension rights in the country. I also mention the formation of a national body of economics and other things I could pick up. We have cared for key factors that we can influence in promoting lasting and greater stability in our country, but that work, as it were, will never be completed. There is still quite a lot of work to do in getting better together at the labour market, but here there is a bill that is important in this overall context to reduce interest, under certain circumstances, in the much short-term movement in and out of the country, which in the end could damage us. At that time, I am making a big breakthrough in a discussion that I hear during all the discussions that have been conducted so far that, according to the Times Bank, I have been able to develop a little more in advance. This is the situation. I appreciate it so that it is no other defender than to present the case when we have put together the rules and with reference to the position we are facing. To say this, I recommend that the bill be dismissed from the discussion referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u11	Madam President. I am not secretive, for I gnashed my teeth under this speech. Secretary of finance, and I'm not surprised that he was rather ludicrous at least. The first part, and under the blue caps. Here comes the highest. Ministers and talks gruelly about the need to obtain a control device to prevent growth management. All right, well, it's been two weeks since I asked the highest question. Secretary of finance whether it would be right to accept authority on such controls while using the bill we agreed on the other day when we were specifying the native islands. Then he spoke to the highest. The minister of finance as if there were many other devices, which he cut off at the end of his talk, which were much extenuating. Yes, it would be government control of public finances, and as he said earlier, how money policy talks with them. There was no special need for them to handle this matter. Now 15 minutes before the end of the council comes the highest. Minister, throws in a bill and treats the council like it's become some kind of plunger pad for him. I'm overexciting this whole business. I've said that before, the government's leading, at least. I, would like to cooperate with the government in order to prepare for the execution of a penitentiary. But this kind of work, I don't really like it, I just say it. I don't feel so good about it. A minister works like this because he has been answered. I've been going to ask him three times since I've had to ask him if he doesn't need one of these. Here he comes. I'm sure the council will look at this. But is it really our intention to handle this at some very brief meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, with no one coming to see it unless it's agreed? One question to the highest. Minister, in fact two: Does this bill predict that negative growth can be established? [[The president calls.]] Second, are these rules ready and will be shown afterwards on the Economic and Business Committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u12	A respectable president. Yes, the rules allow for negative growth if such an assessment is made. I have seen that the regulations of the Council Bank that I expect to be introduced materially and to the Committee so that people can have an idea of both their influence and their specific recommendations to lay the foundation of the law on the basis of that matter. Otherwise, however, it is difficult to grasp the challenge. A senator is coming with us. He says he's been waiting so hard that he's taken the matter three times from the season, and then finally, when he sees it, he's gonna be disappointed that it's done, and there's no more anticipated. This is the case with the fact that there will be no overrun only after a brief discussion at the council. I'll take a closer look at the history of this case and how it has occurred in the relations between the Ministry of finance and the World Bank, if that is what people specifically want. But we've been discussing this not only for a long time at the council but also between the Ministry and the Federal Bank. There, economics have taken a special assessment, considering examples, examining the effects of these devices elsewhere, what has been done, the chances of this being effective here, under investigation. And at the end of the day and in view of the position we consider to be ahead of us, the conclusion was that this work needed to be fast. But that's just life. Sometimes you can come out later with things, but you may have wanted, but our operating system is not limitless.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u13	There may be no more efficiency in the administration, so let's just say that. But the highest. A minister is kindly asked to spare himself his wits and make them do things to someone other than me. I declared in my speech earlier that I was supporting it, and it has been said many times, that the Secret Bank receives such a regime, and I also believe that it should be related to the Ministry of Economics and Economics. But what I've been through is what I've been through, because it's a very important thing to do here. I can't see any better than a trace of repentance to the highest degree. Minister. It seems as if he was embarrassed by such practices as this. V.E.G. Of course, a minister clearly said that it would be a wish for the lawgiver to have more time for this matter to the depth. I'm telling you honestly: This sort of thing needs to be viewed, of course. There would be more to be expected than just government officials from the Federal Bureau of Justice and the Ministry of Economics. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to violate the agreement. It's just a matter of business. But I pray to the highest. Secretary of finance in all kindness and with great respect not to show this kind of practice again to the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to state that once this sort of thing becomes clear, it's a problem that is out of control for the council because when there are ideas of setting rules to control the movement of capital resources in and out of the country, short-term movements, it can immediately affect the market and the behavior of the parties there. Congress cannot easily have such issues as this for a long time. So my words about the spirit and what I would like to do would have been to consider the matter on a special noncommission committee rather than on the council and to weigh the benefits we are facing would have had to take place outside the council and in great confidence. It was what I drew attention to right away in my introduction that it had been very good to have done. But the situation in my opinion doesn't offer it now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I would have done if I had left it to be bringing the case. I think it's more important to the general interest that the case was made, and we set the rules. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u15	Madam President. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Of course, it would have been better to consult with Skarphéðinsson the son of Össur. We have here the Parliamentary Commission on emissions that could have been proposed. She's had little new in this terms period. Last time we were discussing these matters, I spent a considerable amount of time reviewing the lack of discussions. At that time, we were discussing the treatment of Croncies dependent on specific limits. Then it was shown in my committee's list, as it were. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir's daughter also agreed that that this bill should have followed proposals to handle the growth trade. It was totally predictable, when we were discussing it here, two weeks ago or whatever it was, that it had to be done and discussed. But I'm not going to hide that I like this bill. This is what we've been calling across the line. I'm not gonna hide it. I'd like to use my answer here to ask the highest question. Minister on two things. He said in the past that we were talking about temporary arrangements. Then we'd have to look to the future, and then he'd see that some kind of rule-work would be put into a law on Iceland's Secret Bank. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to explain further whether the understanding is not that such devices are needed to run independent money policy here, that is an impervious part of adding to such devices that they are part of what can be used to protect independent money policy. The other question I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on the subject relates to the rules he made here himself as a subject. It tore up any inlets under the rules and on the basis of how to conduct the volumes of cash. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether he believes that even a portion of these rules should be the utmost at the hands of the National Bank. The big frame would be confirmed by a minister, but the part of the principle, which was in terms of further implementation and implementation, would be only on the hands of the Sentencing Bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u16	A respectable president. With this last question, I traced it, there's a totally valid view. The transformation of this rule can be envisioned. In my background, I explained why I suggested this, and I specifically encouraged the committee to consider this point. I notice why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is of the opinion that the minister should come to these matters, so it is understandable that there is some particular view of this subject. Regarding the other thing that was asked about the future, I can see this so as to see this ratio as a permanent law on the Secret Bank, that there will be some sort of commitment, even in this form alone. Will we not consider to some extent the results of this? Is this a vital part of maintaining an independent currency and running independent money policy? I think it's a good aid. For example, let us face the fact that under certain circumstances it may be enough for investors to hold up hope of success. Even if there was no benefit in the interest of interest, under certain circumstances, people, despite the lack of profit at the growth gate, would want to come to the end of hope of being able to move. Of course, examples of these are well - known. In that case, the rule and control would not be sufficient. This is simply not the dominant factor. Depending on how vicious the device is, it depends on how little the interest difference is needed for individual investors to move from one interest area to the next. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You can't give a single answer, but I don't think it's the only thing that's gonna help.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u17	Madam President. The report shows that there is a major change in how we deal with the influx of capital, and especially what is called a forecasting flow, I think that it is called, these rules are primarily meant to deal with such a flow, not what we call a general investment in people's eyes; that this environment is changing to the international. Tells you the highest. Ministers that there will be a problem with developing such precautions for long periods of time on an international scale? This is why it is becoming more common in the far countries around us. However, I would like to ask the highest. One minister, in view of the fact that this matter is presented and tried to complete it before the end of the council. There seems to be a significant interest in such influx now into Iceland, and I ask: Has the scope of the risk that this interest can create?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u18	A respectable president. In terms of the problems that may be the result of making rules like this, I would like to refer to the fact that, according to the lower currency areas, the market may be more dangerous and the ability to influence something in line with that, i.e. that making such rules could be more difficult for such a coin area. But they seem to be an efficient tool that we cannot overlook to my opinion. That's why it's happening right now. The second question involves the risk of quantity; it is, in fact, impossible to evaluate it. [[Up front.]] But when you look at the high numbers that fall under the new law, how many people can participate in the invitations and after events come around and come back in, and on top of that, we know that the local people are putting up a fund that may be directly involved in this, we are simply looking at huge sums of money, which are the main reason we feel we should react. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the complaints that have been heard here about how this case comes in here in the final meters. I know there's no one pleased that there are people here in question because there's something happening tonight, but it emphasizes why fatigue is taking over so late, because of course you want to talk about it. I'm telling you right now, I've had no time to study this matter completely, let alone compare these changes with the law as they are now. But I did so in the highest speech. Secretary of finance that there might be some of these to go into the Sea Bank law for a long time. I can't quickly see anything about what goes into law on the Secret Bank. I'd like to ask you more about what it's all about. A minister assumes that there may be a longer period of time. I'm especially asking because I now assume that we won't be completely caught up in the immediate moment of having to hold a meeting over something terrible, or having to happen with extreme shame, but I suppose it will come to the top. Then a minister will make further legal adjustments regarding this case and the Federal Bank laws. I would very much appreciate it if I could be as prepared for that discussion as soon as possible. That's why I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. A minister might answer my questions about that. I'm going up to my second question in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u20	A respectable president. The short answer to this is simply that we would transfer to such law the warrant for the Secret Bank to set up rules on binding. For example, I can imagine that such circumstances would require a decrease in growth, a decrease in interest, a lack of cause for concern over these short - term movements, and new rules that would be out of obligation, only to take off the commitments. However, the authority on binding would always be active and present, i.e. alive. Then I want to follow this step to call attention to one thing that I find difficult to escape in this discussion, even though it does not directly relate to the inquiry, which is that just a few years ago we were in this hall setting up rules about capital management because we had to prevent the emissions of currency. We were concerned that we did not have enough currency in the country to meet the needs of emissions. We still have these rules as a capitalist. Here we are making rules because we have become concerned that the influx is too difficult for us to cope with, that we will be unable to control the effects of the influx. I find it difficult to go through this discussion without calling attention to how short the time we have moved from the need to put the oceans on to set rules on how we will affect and limit the effects of the influx. This shows how Iceland can swing in a short time from the waves down and down, and in this respect we have almost experienced miracles when it comes to this clean foreign state and how much better our prospects have been. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u21	A respectable president. That is correct, the Icelandic economy goes up rapidly and down, leaving a tiny economy with an independent currency in the export economy. Now the influx is a concern, as if it had to happen at some point because of the circumstances in which we live, especially the Icelandic crown in my opinion, but we may not get into a deep discussion about it here. I'd like to, with the premonition that I haven't been able to look into this case in my basement, to ask the highest. Rather, a minister of questions in a harsh way, hoping that he may be able to answer her in a more elegant way than I can ask. Is the idea simply to create a specific amount of influx, i.e. so much as there may be a possible problem, we simply have the bad advantage that the person does not see the benefit of going that way? Is that the basic idea?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u22	A respectable president. Yes, in fact, it is the idea in its most basic form, that there are certain types of investments that we know come from investing in those who are considering the short - term benefits of growth. This quick money may cause us to have trouble maintaining stability here and to be successful in making money policy. Therefore, the rules that the Federal Bank is authorized to establish on the basis of this law are designed to reduce the benefit and thereby motivate them to pursue such a business. But like I've been tracking it can never be a perfect device. This can only help to reduce your interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u23	V.E.G. President. I hereby present an opinion of the change in environmental and transport proposals for an action plan against the acidification of the sea in the north. The proposal puts the government in charge of appointing a team to carry out an action plan to cope with acidification in the north. The task force investigates the impact of climate change on the marine environment around Iceland and on how action must be taken to control them and that environmental and resource ministers will report the results of the work group on a yearly or more frequent basis if needed. Visitors and members of the Committee were generally positive to the point of the proposal. The erosion of the North Sea can have serious consequences for Icelanders who rely heavily on the seaside. The acidification of the ocean changes its ecosystems and can adversely affect the fish stocks and food chains of the sea. The committee found that acidification of the sea was a result of greenhouse gas emissions. The acidification of the sea could be viewed as an isolated phenomenon but would have to be viewed in a larger context with regard to emissions and pollution, especially carbon dioxide emissions. The committee found the need to increase funding for the seminary to investigate the impacts of acidification on teamwork, e.g. The university community, the Oceanographic Institute, the European Union of the Seaside, and the need to build up and improve research, such as the Southern Knowledge Centre of Sanding. The Commission agrees with the view to the need to improve the research on acidification of the sea. Other than that, I refer to a committee opinion that comes with the bill. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Minister to order groups working on a report on how to improve marine research in terms of the acidification of the ocean and the changes in its environment. The number of patients assigned to the work group will include All right, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. The staff will submit a report to the Minister's report by the end of 2016 presented by the Minister for the General. Under the heading of this publication, however, this publication is under consideration. The members of Höthlll the Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, chairman of the Committee, Katrín the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, who stands here, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Elín Hirst, Áa Guðrún, Svandís of Helgadóttir, Son of Svavarsdóttir, Róbert Marshall, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aarna.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u24	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this case. This is very important. In this series of issues involving nature, and especially on such a scale, as in man - made changes in the emissions of hazardous gas, there is occasional doubt that these changes in nature are man - made. I just wanted to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, whether a meeting of the Committee was conducted something that might call doubts about it. Or were all the guests and all the members of the committee completely convinced without even arguing that this was indeed the case? I think it's important that we do so because in this category people are very often skeptical, especially when they want to tax or charge, then, it's as if scientific evidence somehow stopped. I feel that it is important for me to be present in this discussion whether that has been the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u25	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that question. The task of the committee was determined. It was merely about the acidification of the sea in the north. We did not cross or evaluate whether the release of carbon dioxide is man - made or natural. The comments were not in the way of determining whether they were. The questions about the proposal also did not exist, but I don't think that on any of these matters, it's all that matters. What has been said is that the sea is already sour. Because of the increased concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, the committee feels that one way or another is needed. We are asked to expand our research because we have tremendous amounts of money, huge resources, and it's a big interest in Icelanders that we know something about our resources and our knowledge is based on research base.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u26	A respectable president. Maybe not an answer. I just want to make a decision at a committee party. It is noted that the acidification continued from the beginning of the industrial revolution more than 150 years ago, and it is likely to increase progressively since then, even though some have recently learned about its environmental effects. This is shown in the committee view. I think it'll do. I just wanted this to come out. I'll tell you what. A senator has answered my question and would not want an answer unless he himself wishes to give it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u27	V.E.G. President. I deal with the Commission's opinions from the Environment and Transport Committee for a proposal for a resolution on the construction of the road construction site by highways. The proposal involves the Minister of the Interior to appoint a group of workers on highways making proposals for construction, role and development of the road construction site on the highways of the country, including I'm looking at a toilet position. The staff is also assigned to evaluate the increase in the number of road sites and to set priorities in the construction and assessment of the costs of their construction. As indicated by the proposal's report, the formative sites of the 469 Vegas are wide and wide, but they vary in size. Places on the highways of the country play an important safety role, but it has been suggested that tourists stop their cars by roadside to examine nature and landscapes, which pose a threat to road users. At a meeting of the Committee it was unfortunate to appoint a group for this particular project, where it is already being carried out in a certain way within the administration. The committee agrees. In view of the rapid increase in summer and the number of tourists, it is clear that immediate action is needed. At a meeting of the Committee, the road manager informed the road manager of a plan to set up a temporary toilet area at approximately 30 places. Clearly, such a situation does not exist, and it is important to consider that the future building is an adequate and sustained toilet position. However, the situation needs to be addressed to the government and to become part of the security work at the management centre with the aim of making provision for a preliminary position in the summer and the development of a permanent building point. The committee suggests that the case will be referred to the government. Under the heading, write why. The men of Hölth the son Höskuldur Þórhallsson, the daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, who stands here, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Elín Hirst, Ásta Guðrún the daughter of Helgadóttir, the Svavarsdóttir of Zovar, Róbert Marshall, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aarna.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u28	Madam President. I'm just going to come in for a little discussion on this matter that we left out there. It's not a shame they suggested it. Of course, the need is enormous, and unfortunately, the traveling minister has failed as much as we would think. The proposal assumes that the road will consider the treatment areas it has to know if the situation can be solved, especially on these long paths, where it cannot be found and has even a toilet. They were called the East on Cape and, of course, other roads. This shows that there is no time to waste. However, the case is referred to the government, where certain work is being carried out on account of these issues. I heard an interview with a travel minister on the radio during the days. It is June 2, and it is now time to have a conversation with schools or restaurants in the most scattered places in tourist lands to stay open or negotiate with them in some way. Of course, this is something that should not be solved now in June. It's supposed to be a long time ago. It is not a new problem that we are welcoming thousands of guests. Sadly, this has many other effects, as we have seen, not just in the matter of toilets but in other matters. This is a case of dealing with lost employment, which the travelers have, unfortunately, shared with others. There are many issues that need to be dealt with by and by our infrastructure. I'm sorry, but it's not just the toilets underneath, it's the interiors in so many ways, the road system and other things that have not been handled well enough. We're going into the third summer of this government, and we're almost, that we feel at least, in the same place. Tourists and tourism officials say that conditions have not improved much, especially in terms of road transportation and the application site and any other site that is damaged, as we know. In any case, it is better that the matter should be involved in this transport operation. I hope you start seeing something turn out there, i.e. some actions, not just some plans, but the actions they'll talk about. A respectable president. I'm thinking about making it work. I didn't mean to extend this discussion in particular, but I wanted to mention this in the light of the minister's words during the days, since I thought it was a little late in my ass to start talking things over at the end of the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u29	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the risk management of tourism, a case I'm the first traveling overseer to, along with members of all groups. What a pleasure it is to recommend this committee that is being carried out by the Employment Committee! The Commission has discussed the matter and received reviews from the Travel Office, the Capital Agency, Istavia ohf., Iceland Office, State Rentation, Transport Service Association, Landland Emergency Services, EEA, Road Building, and Iceland Weather Service. The proposal suggests that the Minister of Internal Affairs will be committed to preparing a risk assessment for Iceland for travel. The State Marshal is required to make the risk assessment according to events agreed with, for example. A travel agency, an accident security society of Landsbourg and Environment Agency. The need for special travel in high-risk areas will then be considered. The proposal of the same material was presented to a Council of 143 and 144 C.E. but was not cast out. The aim of the proposal is to reduce the number of accidents and accidents of tourists in the wild and out of the world. The safety of tourists in this country is urgent, especially since they have increased substantially in recent years. The Committee points out that the risk assessment will include: examine the response to group accidents, but there may be difficulty in dealing with such accidents in this country. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Hv. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir was away from the hearing. Under this reference work, the above - mentioned publication appears, ostensibly. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and what. Councilmen of Jón Gunnarsson, president of the Professional Board, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Kristján L. Möller, Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Eglóttir. The number of tourists that have increased in recent years is not widely understood, but Iceland is expected to be attended by some 1.5 million tourists this year. Many of the tourists coming here have provided their way to the country to enjoy the unique natural conditions of the country and to travel around it for that purpose, both in ways of life and in remote places. The tourism industry has grown and prospered, and today it is an important business route. While there is no reason to rejoice in this addition to national employment, it is also important to note that both the well - being of the tourists and the interests of the industry require that arrangements be made to strengthen the community so that the challenges of the great and rapidly growing tourism industry can be met. The safety of tourism and tourism are among the important factors. A report on the Parliamentary arrangement points to measures made in Greenland and Svalbard, where there are large and wilderness areas, just as in this country, as an example of the response to tourism in such areas. Although circumstances are in quite some other way here on the country and in the United States and the Greenland Organization will not be introduced here on the land, the other may well have to be evaluated in an organized way, as it were, the risks of traveling in Iceland and taking measures in accordance with its findings. There are several factors that would benefit such a risk assessment. This would surely help tourists plan their trips and inform them of the dangers and problems that could follow along certain roads. Risk assessment would also be useful for tourism, rescue teams and public officials who are involved in public safety and accidents and should thus increase the quality of the tourism industry as a whole and increase its reputation. In addition to the results of an accident experienced by a person, accidents usually result in social costs, which include a high degree of society. These measures may include search and rescue, as well as health costs. For the above reasons, it is obviously best that accidents will be as few as possible and can be added to the fact that the disaster of tourists or mass accidents in this country would no doubt be a loss of the reputation of the country as a tourist country. Thus, there are many reasons to take precautions to avoid accidents in tourists and to reduce the total number of such events. If so, then the purpose of this matter is established. There's certainly been these issues working on the Control Center for travel. I think it's a good entry into the work that those people come to the table that has been named and the Minister of state is assigned to prepare a risk assessment for Iceland with regard to tourism. We must prepare for the arrival of a large number of tourists. Our highlands can be far - off in many areas, so I think it's very good if the next time I take care of this matter at a council. All is three. This is the third time in the matter at least As far as I'm concerned, I expect there will be a good reception at a vote later.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u30	V.E.G. President. I present an opinion on the Management Board's change proposal from the Environment and Transport Committee for a synonym over the prohibition on the use of tyres in playgrounds and stadiums. The proposal suggests that environmental and resource ministers will be assigned to ban the use of tymps from tyres in playing fields and sports fields, and that a minister, following a program aimed at replacing a tyre rubber barrel with the potential material in the playing and sports fields where it is found and that the task will be completed by the end of 2016. The proposal indicates that it is intended to be fenced as rapidly as possible prior to the use of more toxic or possibly toxic compounds. health problems in areas intended to include for sports activities of young and young people, and the urgent immediate intervention of such activities is immediately ended in unjustification that the health and safety of children are at risk while there is conclusive evidence of harm to the substances. At a meeting of the committee, there was a private view to protect children and young people who use a local satellite field for sports and leisure purposes. They should have no doubt about the materials used on the ground, and if there is a risk of using healthy rubber, it should be removed and replaced by hazardous materials. Visitors agreed with these views, and in the opinion of the Committee in the past few weeks and months, in the treatment of the case of the Committee, information was presented that strongly suggests that there are more severe patches of tyre rubber that have been used in many artificial grass fields here, and, in fact, under the field of motion, are likely to be a health hazard and that there are other types of rubber used in an artificial field that is less healthful, despite being considerably more expensive. It has been observed that many rural areas will soon replace rubber on their artificial grass fields and may have a significant bearing on how fast that work will be done. This is how the city of Reykjavík, e.g. expected to take a few years to replace the rubber on its inside and to replace the wall. According to the Committee, it is necessary to replace the health damage to the typhus with other hazardous materials. It is important to believe that the potentially hazardous matter will be established. This refers to the spread of the tire rubber on the ground, in other cases, the tyres have been painted, and in time the paint of the rubber jar will be wiped off, and we will be back with the currant that is poisonous or supplied with soot and other materials, and the paint will be left behind on the wall. Thus, it is important that the cable be actually replaced with dangerous materials, which was mentioned in the context of industrial rubber. Therefore, it is important to have confirmed research on the materials used and the cheapest of the materials not to be selected simply because of costs. When it comes to playing games and leisure activities, it is important to put your children's health first. In the opinion of the Committee, this process should be accelerated as much as possible, enabling communities to work together on the project. According to the above, it is the opinion of the Committee to replace bridal rubber on the national artificial grass fields with other hazardous materials and that rural communities should agree on the project. It is also assessed by the Committee that it is better to agree with the State and local community on the project, since certain legal views do not allow the General to conclude the prohibition on the use of certain substances. The Commission therefore suggests the adjustment of the proposal that, instead of being committed by a secretary to ban the use of certain materials, a minister will be entrusted, in cooperation with the European Union and the EEA, to shape a strategy for tympanic gum replacement and that this work will be completed by the end of 2016. The committee suggests that the proposal puts it this way: The General concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Minister, in cooperation with the European Union and the Environment Agency, to develop a strategy aimed at replacing the damage to the playing and sports fields where it is now to be found. The work will be completed by the end of 2016. Under the heading, write why. The members of Hödgith the Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, Katrín, daughter of Júlíusdóttir, who stands here, Birgir the Ármannsson of Aarmann, Svandís the daughter of Svavarsdóttir, and Róbert Marshall. Hv. Senators Elín Hirst, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, and Árnason Arnamson were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The General and Education Committee on Parliamentary Reunion Directive on computer-created terms for Congress. This is one of the issues that may have been difficult to explain accurately because it is highly technical. I will, however, do my best to understand the opportunities involved, but I think that within a few years, if this proposal is accepted at this council, it will be clear how much opportunity it takes to make full use of the information technology when it comes to content and content. The General already publishes some data, which we will call side data. There are data on or that contain information on the terms of the Senate, the name of Congress, the Shippings, the committees, and so forth. These data are successfully used today. As an example, I mention the website that the person listed here has some responsibility for the security valve, and is on the valve.is. There is a site where Congress can be downloaded which allows the public to vote with or against the whole affair and to sign with a so - called ice key, which is a type of identification on the Internet and is safe, relatively safe, although the security level may vary depending on the methods I'm not going to go further into here. An example is that open data can be used with great success in a democratic purpose. I have also written my own software, and my body also uses these data to cover Congress cases and discuss comments on whether they are positive or negative, etc. This has helped us in our Senate work; it may now be a point that the public is not particularly interested in, but the main point is that data are very useful, and there is not necessarily anything in advance that will benefit them. It is useful to publish them in computerized and computer-lockable formats so that they can be used for software. There is no need for us to dwell on ourselves indefinitely for what purpose we could use them, we should simply offer them. The above - mentioned examples are of what can be done with the data that are already published. On my software project, in view of the data published by the General, I land at a certain threshold, and that is the content of the Senate documents themselves, i.e. Thoughts such as an article or paragraph, sentence, or law, comments on judgment, or anything similar; the difference between articles and content and the like. It's very difficult to do this today from a programming point of view. This may be possible, but it will always be very difficult, and depending on the fact that the events on the IIlium do not change much over time. I'd like to make a paraphrase of one company to a publicity subject; that's an example of a company which, in my opinion, would probably be what would be first to make good use of such data, which is the company of Four Juris ehf. That great company was concerned that the State would do something that belonged to privates, that is a view I understand well because it's a company that has put several jobs to make it possible for this body of Congress proposal to make it possible. I might do more about it later, but I'm going to go over the committee opinion myself, get it away from me, and then try to explain the technical possibility behind this proposal. Then I quote directly from the committee, by permission of the president: ▪ The aim of the proposal is to promote technical development of recruitment documents so that a computer program can be developed that can separate and understand the references to individual laws, paragraphs, defenders, etc. such things as references to regulations and laws, judgments, public decisions, etc. The proposal suggests that the President of the Generals ship a team of workers who, in turn, counter proposals for the induction and further implementation of these changes. The proposal shows that with this change in the development of Senate documents, there will be an important step in developing rapidly and rapidly technological developments in order to make full use of the potential for evolution. It also gives examples of possible possibilities for this change. To help the public and stakeholders in certain areas, they will be able to monitor legal adjustments on specific aspects of local rights and contribute to increased safety. The reviews were generally very positive, and no client expresses opposition to the progress of the proposal. Criticism focuses mainly on the fact that the changes it involves may lead to too far into the range of data recovery and, therefore, into areas that are more suitable for private partners. On the contrary, it was noted that the clearness of the publication of law is important to the public and that the General and other government agencies cannot fail to implement publishing and information as best chosen and consistent with technological progress. The committee discussed these views and agrees with the latter. Does the Committee believe that by making it easier for the public to look for information in the library and to observe laws, there is an increased transparency in legislation, which is a key factor in a democratic society. Commenting on the Copavog's local document, the transientity of electronic data can bite their authenticity, but without proof there is no point in working with them. To be careful, electronic forms need to be viewed as addition to previously available forms, which do not replace them. For this reason, the Committee stated that the synopsis proposal should not be interpreted to replace electronic data with printed data, but rather the proposed change in the production of data that is currently electronic. The committee suggests that adjustments in dates presented in the proposal are necessary, as well as that the work group suggested to be submitted more quickly to adapt their proposals. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the synopsis proposal will be agreed with the following modification: At 2nd. Proposition: a. Instead of the word '- 1'. May 1, 2016; come to us: September 1, 2016. b. The words will be replaced by "September 1st September 2017." This is what you're gonna sign. Councilmen Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdótttir, Haraldur Svavarsdóttir Sagavarsdóttir, Ondin Gunnarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Árnason and Yjölin Þorvarðardóttir Þyföföfjöðurdðurdótir. A senator in advance. We want to give a specific example of this, the alien bill we have recently been dealing with, a huge case that many members of the Parliament have had to immerse themselves in quite much. There I could easily have felt that there was a software that would be specially designed to follow things like articles and paragraphs and that would have been much easier. For example, many envelopes came from No Bobders and the Red Cross and others in charge of specific articles. This could have been a map, for example. At that job, you would want to have a simple view of all the articles in the bill that would have been covered by a particular party. It would have rushed, it would have hurried for the entire Congress world. It would have helped the whole body of Congress to have access to such software, and it would have been rather easy to write the software if these data were presented in the way the proposal assumes to eventually be the case. By creating the material in computerized formats, you can do so many things that you cannot predict in advance exactly how practical things would be. The wonder of science and technology is that you don't see in advance what the benefits will be, so research and science often continue to be a bit blind, i.e. when it is time for the up-to-date usage. Yet, there are times when we know that some changes will result in increased progress, increase in efficiency, or so forth. That's obviously the case here. Now I have given some examples in which the computerized profile of Congress would do a great deal of good, for members of Congress, not just senators who can program it, but senators who have to gawk about big business; I assure you, without reservation. If this is a trial, I'm looking forward to working with these data because there's an enormous amount of opportunities. I'm thinking companies like the Four Juris ehf. will most likely enjoy these data. I understand, however, the concern of an excellent company that has spent a lot of time trying to actually make a part of this proposal, but I think, and the committee agrees, that it is simply the obligation of the Generals to present the data in a way that they are most useful. To those who are worried that their work is no longer valuable, I say: It is still valuable. It offers continued possibilities, and I would think that the computer format of Congress simply released more opportunities for such companies and such persons, whether private or interested in town, can use them to get even faster into the future. But by the way, I hope I don't sound like an advertisement for this company, Four Juris, but it's a clear example of what I think should be possible to do. It is possible, for example, to place the mouse over numbers in a Senate document and see immediately that there is a judgment, to see a passage in some paragraph, and to see the text found in it and the like. This will save time. I know that experienced senators sitting here in this hall are accustomed to turning back and forth very quickly in such evidence, but I think that even those benefit from doing it more quickly. Most important, I think it might be a good thing for the public. When the common people, or organizations in the community, are going to study some matter of Congress, they may not have to adopt the legal or work system of the Generals to investigate a particular subject. One of the best examples I know is the laws of foreigners, a huge case. For example, it would have been very good to be able, in a simple way, to link the new articles in the bill with the older articles in the current law and to compare them; if all of this were presented in a computer format, it would be relatively simple. Similarly, when it comes to the adjustment of the proposal, software could have been created, rather easily, which simply builds a so-called ◯track change type, as we sometimes use, a document indicating changes made in a modification form. I started working on it in some way, going to be disciplinedly organized; prepared a document to indicate what change would apply to an article, and this took an unacceptable time. When I realized that I just didn't have time for it, I wasn't. I would've liked to have time for this. I don't think I should have had to spend time on this or my secretary's time, or a person over my head. This is something computers should do. Computers are to solve this exact problem. It is very difficult to have a computer solve this problem for us today simply because the data are not presented in the format that they are suitable for it. Now I'm not going to have this speech much longer, though it seems that enough time, to do it. The committee gives the subject we're going to discuss here in a few minutes. But finally, I want to thank the Allied Parliament and the General Department for the data already published. No wonder it wasn't already done. No wonder, this is a rather extensive project, for we suggest that this group be given a little more time than previously planned. This is because it can become a small task, especially changing the available data, rather than creating computerized versions of it. Thus, it is a task that may not be easy, but it is more important to take it in an organized manner. The data already displayed, which are the side data of the language, i.e. paintings, envelopes, and transporters, at which committees are addressed, which are mentioned, which are listed, and which are in those committees, and at what time - the secondary data of this type are presented in an excellent way. Although there is still a work going on, I would like to commend the General Department in particular for that presentation, for I believe it is very much in harmony with the thinking of this proposal. I hope I've shed more light on the matter than more. I can't wait to see if we can handle this. Then, especially, I look forward to seeing what future opportunities will be for this motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u32	Madam President. In the absence of a pilot, selected by the Economic and Business Committee, anyway. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, chairman of the Committee, who is currently busy. The members of the Parliament are aware, along with other members of the Economic and Business Committee, of a matter related to the currency law, that I run here in the gap, as I was at a meeting of the Committee that made up the relevant Parliament smell proposal with a commission I'm going to make aware of on a panel. 1434. This is a preliminaries of a proposal for a synopsis to prepare for long term national interest plans. The movers of that proposal are the one standing here, okay? Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir with me. In this case there is a revised case from the previous council, so that the Economic and Business Committee was well acquainted and has, in addition, reimbursed reviews from Percontainment, Iceland's Secret Bank and Iceland's Business Council, which was sent out at the previous council. There were reviews from the National Institute of Living, the University of Reykjavík, Reykjavík, Iceland's Pentateuch, and Iceland's Business Council. In general, comments were positive to the proposal, as the above mentioned. The aim is to contribute in an orderly and robust way to achieve the data needed to lay the foundation and provide the basis for long-term national economic initiatives for Icelandic society and to work on such strategies and apply them to social policies. The Commission agrees that careful long-term plannings can have an important significance for economic management and other decision making. The action and application of long - term national interests involve efforts to counteract short - term thinking, impulsiveness, and irresponsibility in today's political affairs. It was also emphasized on the basis of the Commission that long - term programmes such as these will benefit not only politicians and officials but also corporate executives in private business, the various kinds of scholars, the media, and the general public. It is therefore assessed by the Committee that such planning is designed to strengthen and promote democratic decision making in many important areas. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir was away from the hearing. Under the committee's opinion of publications that recommend the approval of the proposal, why? Senators Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Committee, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir and Steingrímsson Steingmursson. Hv. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson write under the heading in advance. A respectable president. I'd like to tell about my own chest, because I'm related to the matter and to save time and trips to the platform, that I first thank the Economic and Business Committee for the payment of this proposal. I am happy that she will be granted her payment at the end of this assembly and before the season ends. For a long time, I have been interested in such work, and I have moved it during the council, not only by the transfer of this proposal in ambiguity but by earlier years with proposals and discussions about things like generation accounts and other matters in the same process, to make experiments in an orderly way to see and deal with it. Other nations may do this with much planning, but we do, while there are certain activities in our own specific areas and new laws on public finances, point some in this direction where it is assumed that not only the Ministry of finance but also the Ministry of Education will look back some years in advance when they try to map the development and needs of their litigators. What is missing is a summary, so we have the big national economy in front of us and first try to see how it is likely to be, secondly try to wonder whether we want to try to influence it and what it takes for us to do so and to be as good as ready for the future. This is also linked in many ways to the basic ideas of sustainable development, particularly in the sense that no generation will have the opportunity and possibilities of others to be impaired. This, therefore, should be kept in mind when developing a long - term plan for societies. Of course, the wheels are not being invented here. It is noted in a report that both recently and previously men have worked to some extent on these grounds. There is the McKinsey report that charted the situation in Icelandic society and looked into the future. The report also reviews the outstanding initiative as the then - to - be - the highest. In the 1980's, the prime minister, Hermannsson's Stefgrim, had such a job. He set up a so - called projection committee for a future survey, and out of that work came an excellent publication known as Graving National Life, such as. They discussed population development, health, environment, and the vision of young people and looked forward to the turn of the century, leading to a period of some one and a half decades or so in the future. In this work too, medical literature, which is of interest to read, since many of it is helpful to consider in view of evolution now some three decades later. However, it is suggested that this matter be followed up, that the prime minister oversees a task management to prepare, and prime minister and financial minister work together in terms of the project, at expense, and then reassign it before the council. It is not in itself a suggestion to make final decisions. The Senate would come back to the case when people had a clear picture of how this would be best handled and what it would be assigned and, depending on the events, the money would be involved, so that the person who would be assigned to care for this and have the responsibility would be so equipped for the work environment that would be successful. I say again, thank you to the Economic and Business Committee for the drop-off of the case, and I hope there's a foundation for a job that's going to work for us in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u33	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change to the General Assembly Act, in particular, of the Council Committee meeting. The bill is contained in two articles. I'm not going to read that text, but I'm going over the report in order to shed light on the goal of the bill. Much of the legal process involves the work of members of the Walden Committees. More often than not, visitors attend such meetings to answer the questions of the committee and inform the panel of their position on the matter of the matter under discussion. Although helpful information on the individual aspects of the assembly is often provided, for example, the meetings of fixed committees are usually closed. excerpts on articles or concepts that are considered by the committee do not constitute a special reason to include in the committee but can be useful in a general discussion and in the media coverage. Changes in the way that the meetings of Council Committees would usually be opened up, would provide better insight into the grounds behind the laws and proposals of the Council, making it more possible for the media and the public to monitor the Senate. Two. 1st par. The bill suggests that members of the committee should regularly be silent and that the prime committee establishes rules about their access. It is further stated that members of the Parliament can request that ministers, the heads of state, the heads of state, and the committees of the State, or members of the Council, be appointed by the State. Set up the committee and provide information, as per Article 3. 1st par. Such meetings are sent to the council's Web site and are on television. That's 4 mg. 1st par. suggest that a panel can decide that a meeting will be held shut down in certain cases, e.g. if you are looking for confidential data, if the members of the Council come before the Senate committee, if a guest wishes to do so, or if you wish to do so, you will have a case that concerns the national security or the important interests of Iceland. It has long been customary for employees to appear before members of the Senate to report the subject of a legal projector or a hearing from the local Ministry, as well as to answer questions about specific issues. They work under the board and are responsible for the minister of the legal party, so it is not normal for the Senate's surveillance to be directed toward them. If a committee thinks so, it can refer to a minister for the Committee to give an explanation or to provide information that would be helpful in making public. Or a visitor who would appear before a Senate committee might request that a meeting be closed. Contestants on the matter of Congress will always benefit themselves because their views are torn down as far as they can, as far as they are concerned, are already published in public. It is also arranged by counselors to give additional insight into comments and viewpoints as reflected in their comments. Therefore, it is not expected that the guest's authorization to request a closed meeting will be reinvigorated. The bill is designed to contribute to the possibility that public media coverage can be carried out along with committee work, not just after the committee has covered the subject and is being reinvigorated at the Assembly Hall. Such an arrangement would further give the public and other stakeholders the opportunity to present comments and tips before the end of the matter was reached. Despite the ban on validity of the General Assembly to quote what nomads or guests have said on closed meetings, the latter is more common. Transporters feel that these developments are understandable, in view of the fact that at committees, important issues are often presented that are being discussed at the General Assembly and have something to do with the public. The bill does not suggest a change in this provision, since close meetings are expected to be greatly closed and quotations will be made at home anyway. The general public and other stakeholders are expected to use them primarily to monitor meetings and to provide more access to committees. This too may be said that some committees have been able to open up committees during this terms. I think their experience is good. She's at least Not bad at all. That's when I want to thank you especially why. The budget for opening up committees recently, I think it's a good idea. I believe it underscores that many times in the world have no sense of having closed up. These are not usually delicate meetings, they have no conspiracy, at least no meetings I've had. So I suggest, eventually, that the meetings of the Generals will be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u34	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend an interpretation of the memory of the two-year-old son of Jón the Árnason. This council proposal is not a matter of time. Councilmen of Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Ragnheiður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, and Valdor the Valgerður of Gunnarsdóttir. It reads: The General concluded that after two centuries have passed since the birth of this great scholar of Icelandic Árnason, the Chief of Education and Culture will have been remembered by the Board Jón Education and Culture. May Jón be remembered, among other things, through the National Library of Iceland and the University of Iceland, to be held in the process of his life. Then there will be a relief of Jón in the residences of the National Library and also in the north of Skarga, near his place of birth. Such a modest monument fit Jón's memory. The cost of conferences and monuments is paid by government funds and will be considered in financial terms. The report says: Jón Árnason, the National Bookkeeper and legend collector with more than that, was born on Hofi on Skaga Beach on August 17, 1819. He died on September 4, 1888. Jón Árnason and Magnús Grímsson began a collection of Icelandic legends in the mid - 19th century, but the 19th century's nationalistic awakening included an interest in the stories that had walked by man, and no author knew that and was beginning to call legends. Many laymen and scholars throughout Europe began to gather stories, each in his own country. The most influential collection was undoubtedly a collection of German brothers Grimm, who published a cruel adventure in 1812·1815, and most of Icelanders my age will have read for fun and excitement in earlier years. The success of the collection of Jón and Magnús was seen in 1852 in the book Islzk Practice. For the premeditation of President Jón Sigurðsson, and the favour of Konrad Maurer, Maurer was published in 1862 and 1864 two volumes of a museum called Jón Árnason. They will be available in many Icelandic homes. The complete edition of the collection was then published in a printed form in 1954-1961. One of Europe's greatest legends in the last century, Irish scholar Séamus Ó Duilearga, has made this statement about the collection of the son of Jón the Árnason that it was a collection of legends that had none to do with it even in the wide world. Regarding Jón, the 1944 Library of the Lands Library of the Lands says: "It is not easy to say that he is the greatest worthy man and the most beneficial of all the bookkeepers to whom the library has come to this point, and it would have enjoyed him even more, if in his earlier years the museum had better financial resources. It is only natural for such an scholar to be remembered properly by Jón Árnason. The estimated cost of film making and installing is 2 billion. K. The estimated cost of a conference and its visitors is 2 billion. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u35	A respectable president. Instead of going through a talk and extending a discussion, I'm obliged to come up here and celebrate this proposal that I believe is most worthy. Árnason Árnason was one of the world's greatest nationalists to Iceland's collection work and his collection of myths in many volumes, the legend we talk about in our daily conversations, is totally a part of a pair with the greatest things that happen, not just in the northern countries, but in Europe. That's absolutely a pair with legendary and fairy tales of cruel brotherhood, e.g. and such activities as Kaleucala and other congregations in our neighboring countries. So I'm celebrating this proposal and promising her full support and, frankly, hope she'll have a quick, successful career.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ólína Kjerúlf daughter of the Þorvarðardóttir for the support it has been called here, and it's not surprising, Doctor of Geography, that it brings blood to duty. I don't think it's late for her to learn her studies under my father - in - law, Dr. Jón Hnefill's Aðalsteinsson. But this is a very remarkable heritage that we have in folklore, whether it is Icelandic legends or legends of a foreign background. These stories played a natural role in raising children in their time. Celebrating is, for example, famous. Remember in the legends where the hero needs to try three times before he succeeds. It tells us that we should not give up if we do not succeed in the first round. The most successful and successful have generally failed in the first round, and they do not give up, they continue to try until they have achieved the results they want to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u37	A respectable president. It might be fun to talk late after night about the content of Jón the Árnason's legend. They contain much culture, as the senator obviously understands, not only historical history with fiction but also evidence of the nation's spirit and its subject over the years. The fables of the story, the trolls, all the ghost stories, are the people's dreams, their dreams of better times, of the town of the valley, of the green field, and of the fat in the valley that no one sees. The secretaries are often the dreams of young people of love. Then it is the value of these words that teach us how to treat one another. In effect, the first environmental directive appears in the theme not to beat the axis e.g. and do not interfere with the environment around the dwelling area of the Wets. Thus, at that time, these stories are a mysterious lesson for the little learned people, and therefore they too are such precious gems and precious testimony to the nation's struggle of life from the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the insight it gives us in this study. I would also like to add to the fact that legends and fairy tales also played a role but what I mentioned earlier because the fear and excitement that often consisted of these stories, the darkness and the trolls all together, also loosened the fears of the young, which were spirited and listened to older people read these stories, and they felt the real excitement of the blood and the body all over it. Then, at the end of this, there had been a tension release from the listener or reader. Our legends had a wide variety of upbringing, and they also included beauty and affection, and they included horror, and they included environmental protection, such as felle. A senator entered, the motivation for environmental protection. Our legends and foreign legends are indeed gems. We must not let these rumors die with our generation, we must keep them alive. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u39	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on income taxes, no. 90/2003, with subsequent changes, about seaman food money. Transporters are the one standing here. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and why. The members of the council of Lára Arnardóttir of Acdéri and Ásmundur Friðriksson Eyjapey, who lives in the South. 1st par. It reads: Following the words "day's coin" in the 1st Team A.S. 1.mg. 30. g. The law, comes, the money of the seamen's food. 2. par.Unable to This law has already been valid. This bill suggests that the salary of the seamen according to II's income must be withdrawn from the collective agreement. section on income taxation. In Figure 1 of Figure 1. 30. g. a law on income taxes stipulates a maximum of expenses received a day's money can be detracted and enjoyed to form pilots and flight attendants. Transporters believe that there is a reason to add the provision that such food money as those at sea on an Icelandic ship or a ship made out of an Icelandic shipping company can be detracted from income, since they are away from their homes, like the former professions. So many were words. This bill does not cover much, and there are not large sums behind it, but we feel that this is a form of recognition for sailors who work away from home. I'll bet you there would have been a good chance of finishing this bill so that it could be law today, just before we enter the sailor weekend. As the people know, the sailor's day is this Sunday, and in many countries entertainment has begun, in sights all over the country, even in this house, yes. [[Even in this house.]] So there would have been style over it, as they say, but I still think this is the first step, hoping that the case will go on its way and that it can be taken care of right after summer leave. [[Up front.]] It may also be noted that today a bill was passed on to a couple that I believe is good for sailors and that recognizes that according to seaman families, in the majority of cases a seaman's mate or a sailor's female mate, as in most cases, has difficulty in working full - time, and so, more often, the sailors earn the largest amount of income in the home. Therefore, I believe it will benefit sailors. I think sailors can go to that weekend rejoicing and be content with their share. I promise to do my best to make the bill legal by vacation. Finally, I just say, "Happy sailor weekend."
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u40	Madam President. This fine language is just one poem. Hv. A senator would have considered a possible approved route to get behind it a bill of all the experiences in these sales, and take me to a salty sea. For example, he could have been joined by the highest power. A prominent ancient seaman, a health minister, except for the 4th. n.. No. which has been on the sea from every corner of the country, even beyond the country. With such men who are divorced and who have shared elected sailors, he might have had a chance to get the bill approved. I have to say, though, it was like whisk. A senator would have already given up on his final approval because he began talking about other things that had happened today that might be of the nature of which they could be viewed as a reason for joy for the seaman class. Now it's time to tell him that I supported that matter, a couple's agreement, and break me from my policy in that subject, aquifer because... ásamt with Kristján L. Möller and, in fact, we've also tried to do what is right with the highest degree. A health minister in various matters that he could not for his own power to drive to port. [[Take it up: With Möller.]] But you and me, me and what. þm. Kristján L. Maller, supported the change that the majority of the committees had to do with marriage's matchmaking according to the argument as it did. A senator was already with the sailors. [[Up front.]] This was primarily what made it perfectly normal for me to accept it. Hv. A senator has discussed how men have begun celebrating a sailor's day. Then maybe at the end, and that's why I'm going here, I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Will he begin tonight or tomorrow to celebrate a sailor's day?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson puts him in the case. I trust he will respect it to me that I have not had much experience in this workplace, he has only more experience than I have from getting the right men on it. I promise you, I'll think about that next time. In my humility, I invited only members of the council who were with me on a professional committee, including Kristján L. Möller, to present this little case, but it didn't come out. The dog. A senator must have lost those little mail in all that pile, we know we get a lot of mail, and they can go by you. But I know he's got a side to it, and I'm counting on him first. Today, members of the Parliament broke off their show of pride, agreeing to a couple's agreement that it would benefit sailors if they were to be on the right side of the button when this issue is resolved, as long as it reaches a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u42	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to see how well this case will be handled here at the council tonight. It is likely that climate change will appear here on land in acidification of the sea and especially in cold waters, such as around Iceland. It tells itself that it can be very important to us if there are changes in marine life that are our main resource. Research in this field should be our main contribution in the future in climate. We're supposed to be doing a lot of research on these issues here in the North Sea, and I'm happy to say that this case is in port.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-06-02-126.u43	A respectable president. I can see myself coming up here because this case has come here for the third time, and it seems as if in the third row, it's coming through. This matter will be discussed with the decision to make a travel risk assessment and that the Minister of the Internal Affairs will be assigned to prepare a risk assessment for Iceland with regard to travel. I believe this is going to be useful in the growing stream of tourists coming to the country. We need to have security plans and not force tourists into dangerous areas. I think it would be good to go into the current job and be useful even though it would certainly have been good if this good case had been accepted for the first time it had come to the council, but at times some senators need to be persuaded to get them along well with them. The work committee was very united in this matter. I'm the first carrier, but the case is members of all categories. I say yes.
