ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u1	President wants to try to do what? Congress members see how this morning's election is planned. We'll be after the vote on a 1st-five. language, as well as searching for excerpts. After that, the program will be followed in ways other than at the end of this meeting, before it is terminated, so that the welfare committee can complete work on change proposals because of the social security bill. Then, after this meeting, they will be invited to a second meeting, which will be the last meeting during this most excellent time of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to make a comment to the board. I would have considered it desirable that this had begun to be the past of the council. The reason I wanted it is that the following comments were passed yesterday. paritaprevir Ástrún Helgadóttir, with permission of presidents: ▪ There was a misdirection of a council by saying that 85% of students would get out better. During a general political discussion, big words are often expressed toward those who are political opposers. However, the fact is that an anonymous individual, Dr. Hrafnkell Kárason, won the analysis based on the Ministry Department. I don't personally complain about being under such metals, but I don't want it in the books of the council to say that this noted man from MIT, who worked this analysis, is shocked to have been deceived by his duties. I wanted to explain this, and I would have liked to discuss it better at the end of the council. So I'll witness again to what? She said that these calculations were all ◯ bound to some kind of witchcraft. It's not like that, Mr. Honorable President. This is what general talk is called mathematics, and Dr. Hrafnkell Kárason Kálson, from MIT, is exactly good at that. [[The president calls.]] The result of an improvement in 85% of students was based only on official data, and then a discussion with other systems that, for example, do this. a higher percentage would be better off. But I did not want it in the council books to be the charge of this renowned man that he had deliberately promoted deception against the council and the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u3	I come up to explain to you that there's an adjustment in the motion. 1797, but the motive for the suggestion is for the review of the case, as well as for the changes made by the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee at 2 Timothy 3: 1. It was shown that approximately 4 mg. Thirty-three. as the bill has come from a change at 2nd. she'd be better off if she went away. It's the substance of this change. A respectable president, the highest. Ministers, please. Councilmen and fine staff of the Generals. This is probably the last time I'm going to speak here at the General Assembly, and I'd like to use it as an opportunity to give you all the best thanks for my welcome and satisfying cooperation. I am grateful to voters who have granted me the privilege of working as a member of the Parliament to the exceptionally large and delicate matters that have been handled by the General Assembly during this term. May your luck go with all of you. Thank you. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u4	A president's compliments and wishes rest. A senator, who gives him thanks for a good cooperation and a good job in this terms and benefits him and his family in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u5	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from 13 October 2016 or later, if necessary. A respectable president. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u6	A respectable president. It has been a while since this case was presented at the council and referred to. General and Education Committee. There has been a slight change in the conduct of the committee, the proposal itself, in the hope that an agreement and unity will be reached at the council. Now the motion is being made so that the General council conclude to hide the Minister of State and State and Housing Ministers in order to submit a request to the establishment of a refugee agent or a comparable office that has other causes of refugees in hand than a ruling and research authority. As noted in a committee study with a change in the proposal for this synonym, members of the Committee, who were called to comment on the subject, have generally described the satisfaction of this resolution and its objectives. Since the current legislation council has reached its end, it is necessary to adjust the reference period of the survey. According to the proposal, the results of preparatory work were expected to be prior to the completion of this elected period. Therefore, we suggest that the U.S. Council be made aware of the results of the demand survey by means of a report on September 1, 2017. Then we suggest a different heading according to this. Under the committee's opinion of the Watch Tower Society, Director Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdótttir, director of the Committee, Onindölnardónardóttir, author of History, Steingrímsson Steingor Sævarsdóttir Anna Svavarsdóttir, Arnardóttir Eagledótnardótir, Halldóra Mogensen, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u7	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee's Committee's Committee of Foreign Affairs with a proposal for interpretation support for international releases for the protection of health care professionals in war zones. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Jörundur Valtýsson from the Ministry of State. The draft proposal means that the General Assembly will identify its members, without exception to international health care, health care, and emergency assistance in conflict areas. It is then suggested that the Allied Council condemns assaults in hospitals and medical shelters in war zones, expressing support for international and international releases against such activity, and dissuade the government from protesting such offenses in the United Nations. The synopsis of the Council of Congress points to the conclusion of the United Nations Security Council No. 2286 (216) adopted in May this year, and Iceland was a member of the move. The example of the Precautions of Health Care Professionals in Combats, Hospitals, Hospitals, and other facilities used to help the wounded and the sick, referred to the Geneva Convention and other international agreements on commitments in armed conflicts, human rights contracts, and human kindness laws. According to one report, the reason for the conclusion was that during the years during war - torn countries, attacks on health professionals and their bases in war - torn areas have been greatly increased. Afghanistan, South Sudan, Syria, Yemen, Ukraine and Central African Republic. The committee feels that increased attacks on health care professionals in war zones have been subject to discussion, including on the world scene, on the need for the global community to respond and encourage appreciation for the need for medical attention in war - torn areas, in accordance with international humanitarian laws. When safety cannot be expected from healthcare professionals and relief workers in war - torn areas, including hospitals, there is a risk that the international community involved in relief work and emergency assistance will be forced to reduce its activity. As a result, civilians in desperate need may not be able to obtain the necessary health care. When hospitals and emergency shelters are no longer safe, there is also a risk that the injured and the sick will be less able to bring relief from impending threats as well as hospital attacks may have a negative long - term effect on the development of health systems in war - torn countries. It is therefore important to reduce the suffering of the sick during war and to ensure safety and health care professionals who are guided by neutrality and professional activity. The committee also feels it is vital that the attack on relief hosts be condemned. It is necessary that the proposal also applies to those who provide such assistance. Sets the committee to adjust it accordingly. The Geneva Convention is designed to ensure the protection and rights of non-contractants, including Civilians, soldiers who have been injured or surrendered, and doctors and nurses who perform health care and kindness work in war zones. Thus, attacks on health care professionals, hospitals, or other centers where the injured and the sick are cared for may be a violation of international humanitarian rights and may be viewed as war crimes. According to one report, the aim of the synopsis proposal is to help the international voice of Iceland become new to contradict legal attacks against health professionals in the field of conflict and to express support for international releases that protect and its activities in behalf of war - torn people throughout the world. The Commission believes that Iceland is an important force where the rules and customs of international humanitarian rights become respected and work to protect and promote human rights in war zones. A respectable president. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: Instead of the words, a medical shelter, in the motion, come: medical shelters and emergency personnel. I'm going to allow me to read the synopsis proposal as it will be after a change, it's short: All concerned members are challenged by the General Assembly to recognize the unique international release for the protection of health care professionals, health care professionals and emergency help in the affected areas. At the same time, the General Assembly condemns assaults on hospitals, medical shelters, and relief workers in war zones, expressing support for international law and international releases against such activity, and obliging the government to protest such offenses in the United Nations. Under this view, the writer Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, the chairman of this committee, stands here. The men of Zoghis, the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, Óli Björn the son of Kárason, Óttarr Proppé, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egl, and Karl Garðarsson the son of Hv. Senators Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, Frosti Sigurjónsson and Össur Skarphéðinsson were absent from the case. Hv. paritaprevir A Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. A respectable president. I've served Congress for three years. But I've thought about Congress much longer. I've been thinking about it for 57 years, thinking that Congress and democracy are the best administrative arrangement. I am proud to have served here for three and a half years. I've tried to use my knowledge and experience. I have come close to my work with humility, my senses, and my indiscretions. Sometimes when I'm in Congress, I feel that the Congress is protecting me with iron fences. I think it's the next step below that Congress will be protected by tanks, which sometimes threatens Congress. We don't always know which direction the tanks are turning. I'm also going to say here and now that the House is a work of art in which beauty alone is in control. The presence of staff in the House is highly respected, and I thank the staff for their assistance and care. I am thankful that I had had that opportunity. I don't know if I'm gonna get another chance, so voters are gonna thank you for the opportunity I've had in front of me. When I walk out here at the end of a council meeting, I do so in humility and awe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u8	A respectable president. I have to come here and correct the misunderstanding presented in the speech chair at the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture... of the fact that I had named individuals who would have done some research... in behalf of the Ministry of Education and Culture... about the LINC. That's not right, this is something I haven't done. I haven't even named people. However, I have questioned the calculations that the Ministry of Education and Culture declared itself, including in the follow-up card with the bill. When this good man visited the Committee, it became evident how these calculations were based. That's exactly what our criticism in the memory of the committee is based on, that there's deception, there's cutting dust into the eyes of voters, there's playing with numbers and grounds. It was made clear that this was done at the highest request. Secretary of education and culture, playing with numbers, just so it's being maintained. I haven't accused anyone of anything, I haven't named anyone but a possibly intellectual and cultural minister who's the only one responsible for this class. [[The president calls.]] And he failed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u9	A respectable president. In the differences we have here, I want to present myself as a witness in the matter. I'm like a whisk. paritaprevir Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir criticized and described opposition to the student loan program and, including, the study project. it claims that the Ministry did not state correctly when it claimed that e.g. about 90% of students would pay less on student loans in this new system. It took us in the memory of a little while to see through this deception that we have so called. In any case, there was only half a story said. It was just at a meeting with a circumcised calculator who has a doctor's test from MIT, as shown in the case of the highest court. A minister of education and culture that this opened up for us because the meeting was very informative, since the person answered very clearly all our questions and showed just his abilities in this subject. [[The president calls.]] So critical. paritaprevir The members of the Ásta - Guðrún daughter of Helgadóttir and my criticism of deception are by no means critical of those who are in question. That's a big misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u10	A respectable president. I come back here for a pleasant occasion. Although this is a recommendation, which often isn't good, in this case is very good. A certain human rights issue is being directed in the right direction. The issue is that in a law of law for some time, in the rules on driving grants to disabled persons, it is required that the car strengths provided by law on social assistance should be granted only to those who have a driver's license, or if someone else in the household has a driver's license. It is an amazing law, and I know that many senators have attacked it and tried to change it. It is natural for obvious indiscriminate discrimination to make the requirement for a particular group that, for obvious reasons, needs to be made to buy cars, to travel as we do, to have either driving rights, which these people are often able to receive, or to live with someone who has a driver's license. They cannot make the requirement for people who want to live their own lives, and who want to live their own lives as they please, that they have to live with someone who has a driver's license to get a car scholarship. It is a joy to know that after I made this decision during the summer, and in these last days, a very good conversation has taken place. A social and housing minister of Eygló Harðardóttir, where it has been found to agree completely with this. I can't hear any better than this regulations have to be changed. Especially in view of the fact that it is growing by personal assistance, by means of user - controlled personal assistance, and by the direct payments of disabled people on farms, that people can live independent lives, that disabled people can live their own lives, and that they can conduct their lives as much as they would like to be with those in need. It is often the assistant who drives the car, and it cannot be demanded that the assistants have a legal home with the person. So it's getting really important to change this. It was made of, after our final conversation. Minister, that there is a better way to change the Regulation rather than a law against violating discrimination in this way. So that is the agreement that lays the basis for this contraband that the bill is referred to by the government and thereby to the Supreme Court. Minister of society and housing, and assigned to change the Regulation. As I understand it, it will be done today or tomorrow in the way the bill recommends and with certain conditions that the Ministry considers desirable. This means, in effect, that the Regulation will be changed in the way of people who live independently and who have a personal assistant under the contract with a rural society who can obtain a car scholarship completely independent of who they live or whether they have the right to drive themselves. I'm celebrating this very much. It's a step forward. This is an easy - to - understand language that has been most irritating to people for a long time because it was certainly just an inhuman discrimination. It is a joy to see it now and to change it quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to explain to the Commission's study of a change in proposal for action on the membership of Iceland into the European Space Agency. The National Department of State has discussed the matter and received reports from the Ministry of State, the University of Iceland, the University of Reykjavík, the University of Akureyri, the National Weather Service of Iceland, the CDC, Dr. Kári Helgason and Dr. Jón Emil Guðmundsson, and Sævar Helgi Bragason. The Parliament offers a search for a secretary of state to apply for the involvement of Iceland into the European NASA of Astronomy. The European Space Agecy (ESA) European Space Agency was established in 1975 and now number 22 member countries. All North countries are members of the ESA, including Iceland. There are then ten countries, but this process takes several years. An essay in the proposal shows that the aim of the NASA is to cooperate with the European Union's domain in space and technology. The Agency's main tasks include: The implementation and implementation of long-term policy in space science and proposals for the common objective of the Member States in space science. The Agency is also responsible for harmonisation of the European Space Programme and the estimates of Member States, mainly for the development of satellite equipment. However, the work of the Astronomy, such as meteorology, biology, and geology, is about as much about research in earth's fields. Studies in physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, etc. are also emphasized. The report emphasizes that Iceland's membership would create a more varied job opportunities and make it easier for academics to use their expertise here, themselves, and the nation for the better. It is noted that the deportation of educated people from the country is significant and that the U.S.A. was a part of promoting job opportunities in the fields of technology and science at home for which there has been a shortage. According to the report, the main projects involved in Iceland would likely be their first software project. The Commission believes that in Iceland, there would be a role in promoting the scientific and high - tech industry in Iceland and that Icelandic scientists are already using data from the European NASA of NASA, including the United States. the study of earthquakes and weather patterns. Iceland is in the early research of the earth's magnetic field and so far, scientists come from the Agency to test devices, such as the U.S.A. used in a satellite. With involvement, Iceland could further take advantage of the tools the Agency has and influence its research activities, such as the way satellites are organized. Such influences would be of great value in scientific and research, such as research on land rise and development of glaciers, weather patterns, ocean ice and temperature changes that can alert you to volcanic eruptions. Commentors were positive to the proposal, and they included the proposal. Under the Commission's emphasis on membership in the NASA of NASA, the range of employment opportunities in the region and the development of scientific cooperation with other countries would be increased. The majority of the Agency's research teams, with 31% budgets, turned to Earth's observations and identified the interests of Icelanders by research on fishing grounds, north lands, and earthquakes as well as the monitoring of air cover and weather systems. The Commission reports that Member States have a common obligation to support about a third of the Agency's activities, including optional projects funded by Member States. In each Member State, it is set up in which optional tasks are involved and, therefore, budgets vary according to the state's decision to participate. Instead, the Agency invests in Member States through the implementation of projects that promote research and innovation, making the budget available by the Member State. The SmPC shall include an assessment of potential financial contributions to the Agency based on Iceland's national production in 2015 as compared to several Member States and the proportion of national production produced by the countries within the same year. It depends on the extent of the participation in the earlier optional projects in Iceland. With no participation in such projects, Iceland's contribution would be 60 billion. K. Based on the lowest value of countries with comparable national product on man and Iceland, 162 billion would be accomplished. K. and, based on the median of all Member States, 275 million would be accomplished. K. Then it is emphasized that the U.S.A. has committed itself to investing in member countries for at least 96% of their contribution. According to a review of the University of Reykjavík, the European Space Agency partnerships ensure that their contribution to Iceland will be made to the equivalent financing of projects in Iceland. According to Dr. Kári Helgason and Dr. Jón Emil Guðmundsson, Iceland's contribution would be much lower in the application procedure, or during the first five to ten years, and Iceland is claimed to be able to become an international member of the NASA Institute of Astronomy with balanced donations for the first time and for the total duration of 80-1,200 million. K. a year later, if you wish for a full involvement. A review of Iceland's Weather Service emphasized that if Iceland became a member of the U.S. According to the Ministry of State, a just ten years ago, a team was established to investigate the sensitivity of Member States or the cooperation of Iceland with the European Space Agency. The plan was to see if membership was timely and whether membership or cooperation with the Agency would contribute to a more rapid development of technology and an increase in high-tech business opportunities in this country. Furthermore, any involvement or cooperation should be investigated to strengthen Iceland's position in other areas, such as communication, environment, security, and guidance. The Outfit did not complete. The review says that there is some uncertainty about the possible budget for the NASA Institute as well as the national commitments if they are part of it. The Ministry, however, believes that participation or cooperation with the Agency may be an interesting option in foreign political terms and that it is not unusual to find out if and by what means Iceland could share with the Agency. An external committee believes that participation in the U.S. NASA has the opportunity to promote education, research, and science in Iceland, creating a job opportunity for academics, who, on the other hand, have expanded their access to landstones for suitable jobs. In terms of financing, the Commission stresses that financial contributions to the U.S.A. bring back mostly to the Member States and that contributions are largely selective on the decision to take part in the activities involved. The Commission agrees, however, that if an Member State is involved, the institutions in the country that keep their relationship with the U.S.A. will be able to provide adequate financial support. The Commission agrees with the State Department's viewpoint to further examine the benefits of Iceland's Membership to the European Space Agency. The Commission believes that it is important that the Agency operates for a peaceful purpose only, as shown in its original covenant. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following adjustment: The suggestions are so expressed: The General concluded to hide the minister of foreign affairs to apply for the membership of Iceland to the European NASA of Astronomy, with the exception of a closer opinion of commitments associated with membership. Under this opinion, the writer of this magazine, Óttarr Proppé front, and wriggle. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Óli Kárason, Karl Garðarsson, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglil, and Svandís, the daughter of Svavarsdóttir. Hv. paritaprevir A Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Hv. Senators Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir and Össur Skarphéðinsson were absent from the case. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the change presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u12	V.E.G. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. The Economic and Business Committee, with a panel of off-limits. 1812, motion that 8th case be referred to the government, bill to legalize a change in the law of merit-employment taxes, No. 50/1988, with subsequent changes. The matter is reversed by the value tax environment of athletes, young people and young people. Transporters in this case, when it is now submitted, have been submitted three times, and are being left to the fore. Councilmen: Willum Þór Þórsson Þrsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Einarsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and Daðason Háldasson. The matter was first presented to 143. The legislator Parliamentary proposal for reevaluation of the added tax environment of the sports movement, 487th matter. Then the case was submitted again as a legal bill at the 144th legislature, 411, and now at the end of this council. There has always been an opportunity to measure the case, and this time they have received a number of comments from rural communities, sports, youth, sports members, sports members, sports, youth, and teenage partners, and various activities of professional life and community society. This time, we talked about what. A financial and business committee to meet the following parties: The Low Líney of Rut Halldórsdóttir of Iceland's Ithle and Olympic AssociationG. Bjarni Halldór Marta and H. Blöndal from Iceland's Knats Óskar H.. The reviews of the case at this council were received from Iceland's Sports and Olympics, Iceland's Knatt's Savvy Association, the head of state tax, the network of industry and Iceland's business. The bill is twofold divided into two legal branches, along with the regulations of Article 3. The bill is suggested, referring to 1. ... thatthe service and sale of sports, young and youth members who are employed to raise funds for their core activities will be avoided by a valuable tax. Is here responding to the position that volunteers and volunteers are in charge of paying a merit tax, where, by law, part of the movement is already falling under the terms of this enforcation, while sports companies collect, e.g. no tax on sales which attracts sports and cannot be withdrawn from the tax because of the purchase of resources for the operation. In any case, there is great responsibility to pay taxes and taxes, so it is important to explain the situation further. Thus, the objective of the bill is to promote and support the volunteer work on which it is largely established and, as we know, the basis for this work. It is also suggested that sports, youth and adolescent communities be reimbursed in terms of the specific costs of athletes and are referred to in 2016, but where there is no time since the case has been submitted, this year is up to. In view of the recommendations given here, this is not the main issue. I refer to Article 2. The bill for building and maintaining athletes, but blessedly there has been an increase in the number of practicers and in the concomitant need for such structure, as well as maintenance, not only to practice, but also to develop the social aspects of these athletes, young and young people's society. The objective of the bill is to support the activities of sports, juvenile and adolescent members, especially the volunteer work and the building up of athletes. This case supports and is in the spirit of the Supreme Court covenant. Governments that say the government highlights the importance of sports, hobbies and youth and integrated play and study whenever possible. It should be that, whether in the case of sports, art, art, or social work, as most people can find something appropriate. Such a job develops the individual and has a lot of preemptive value. A respectable president. This is truly a covenant of the highest government. Governments. During the past few years, there has been a review of the terms on cost taxes and product expenditures in order to simplify and improve the effectiveness of the system. V.E.G. Economic and financial ministers ordered a team to do what they want. The Economic and Business Committee suggests that these suggestions will be considered in the management group at the highest level. Budget and economic ministers, along with other matters that have been discussed in the past. Economic and business committees lately, e.g. In regard to the value tax of books, music, and the activities of the press. That said about the importance of the sport movement, the activities of sports, youth and youth, a contract of the highest. Governments and broad coverage. The Economic and Business Committee on a number of issues relating to cost-employment taxes and that control group at the highest level. The financial and economic minister I referred to, and work to, as the committee suggests, an overall review of the merit taxation environment is appropriate, that the case be referred to at the highest level. Governments. I thank the committees for their financial support. Hv. paritaprevir Hermies, Níelsson's son, were absent from the case. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. The following what? The members of Parliament wrote down as I present and took care of the case at the General Assembly on October 12, 2016: Frosti Sigurjónsson, president of the White House. Economic and Business Committee, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir Á. Andersen, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, Lady Sævarsdóttir Anna, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, and why. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, who writes this with the reference to fourth mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u13	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the threshing floor. 1808 on how to commemorate the anniversary of Iceland's independence and sovereignty, on December 1, 1918, 100 years have passed since the receptions. The presidents of all political parties at the General Assembly are members of the proposal. The events that took place in July 1918, at the time of the Treaty of Iceland and was completed on July 18 with a validation of December 1, that year, must be counted as the greatest in the nation's history from its beginning, and therefore definitely a great reason to remember them by celebrations in 2018. Although Dana's real involvement in Iceland's affairs has actually ended with home administration, Minister of Iceland, Commission, European Commission and Congress in modern understanding, it was not until 1918 that Iceland established its place among the nations as a free and sovereign state in a royal relationship with Denmark. In line with this, Kosin is suggested to be represented by the representatives of all members of Congress in 2018. It will have the highest meeting in the Parliament on July 18, 2018, which will be a century from the end of the Treaty of Iceland. A custom has developed to commemorate the most spectacular events of Iceland's history in this way. Also on December 1, 2018, as well as December 1, 1998, will be held at a celebration. to the Council of Government in Reykjavík at the end of the century, when the Treaty entered into force. It will be agreed with students on events that day, and they have kept memory of the importance of this day faithfully. Other suggestions in the conclusion are that there will be a competition for the design and appearance of governance and planning of the Councilship, taking together publications on how to lead the Union, the content of the laws and their implementation, as well as the publication of the Supreme Court when Iceland obtained the 1918 national rights. This will be started in cooperation with the Year's Institute on the main manuscripts of the museum, to remind us of the foundation of Icelandic culture and the basis for national independence and sovereignty. At the same time, the overall publication of Icelandic legend at the anniversary of the year will be promoted so that the ancient literature of Iceland is always available on a book as well as on digital form. The schools will be encouraged to focus on the major milestones of the European Union in 1918. In the spring of 2017, the government is assigned to ensure that in a financial programme for the next five years, which will be submitted to the General Assembly, the Agency will be expected to build up a Museum of Nature. The proposal for building a structure for Icelandic language language technology and a five - year plan on this subject will be prepared. Finally, the Parliamentary Committee will be assigned to complete policy-making policies for the National Park on the Þingles and for show of the history of the Þingvall and the natural world. A respectable president. It is a pleasure to be able to complete the election period in the broad solidarity of all categories of such important matters, and I suggest on behalf of the couriers that the proposal will proceed for a future discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u14	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the excellent way to handle this matter. I agree most of the time. I believe it is appropriate for the General to agree with this kind of Congress. It is instigated by the anniversary of Iceland's independence and sovereignty. But I would like to, Mr. President, to let me ask the highest. In view of the recent discussions over Iceland's constitution, prime minister would agree with this proposal of some sort of encouragement to himself, his goal was to be before the time mentioned here to complete a new constitution. We're talking about two years here. All the political parties at the General Assembly and most of those who volunteer to the Generals have had very clear opinions on the Constitution. Also, I think that there are very many political parties in the way that the work is done and the preparation of new constitutions. Much has already been done in preparation. I would have felt that it would be appropriate for the Council to accept the promise to have completed a new constitution no later than at the time of this birthday. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on his position on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u15	A respectable president. When people commemorate as important events as these, there are many things that can arise that would be worthy of such a conclusion. We've been considering intermittently in the latter part of this terms how reasonable this conclusion is to be made. The key point is, in my opinion, that one can agree on the projects and that they are the same as we agree that they will be carried out, we are convinced that they will follow up. The council has discussed changes in Iceland's Constitution, three important regulations I would have thought men could agree to finish here at the end of the season. I am so disappointed that it is not true that they can be completed. I think it would have been a good idea to continue the revision of the Constitution in good harmony and the advantage that most classes would agree on these three principles. Sadly, that did not come into harmony. Similarly, I think it would have been inadvisable to include some of the material that humans are not prepared to agree on and then to be convinced at the same time that they will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u16	Mr. President. I don't know how to turn my backs on the conversation as much as possible. The prime minister may have been referring to the leading members of other political parties on the change to the constitution. He specifically specified three factors. It so happens that there are three factors that I also have the most concern of all and that I consider the most important of the changes to the constitution. I can't say if they were under trial. In any case, we stand here just a few hours before the end of the council, and nothing will be done about it. Of course, when we remember the anniversary of independence and sovereignty, it is only natural to do so. They are marked by this suggestion. In most respects, it is a material step. A new building is expected to be designed. The arrangement of the Holy See, the Holy of Nations, will be completed. Similarly, it is easy to encourage school students to remember this milestone. I would have thought that under these circumstances and this milestone, it would have been reasonable for the General to promise himself that he had completed a new constitution for this time together. It set a two - year time goal for the Constitution. Depending on how winds would blow, after times the wind might have turned out to be the highest. The prime minister mentioned just a few things. I believe that within the United States, it is possible to establish a new constitution on the basis of those removed by the Council of Government at their time. A lot of work has been done. A national meeting has dealt with this matter, so it can be said that the nation had already done so. That's why I want to reiterate my question to the highest level. Prime Minister: Is it not still possible to examine it before a council closes to this proposal, the orders for the dwindling of a new constitution? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u17	A respectable president. I repeat my answer. Hv. A senator calls to agree to complete a full reexamination of the Constitution in two years, but this is in fact in opposition to many of the groups here at the council that feel that it is more reasonable to go further on the way to make our neighbors in the northern countries, the Norwegians, and others, have gone there. They have taken much longer time for this and have taken certain chapters before and end them. But we will not even be satisfied with making three important regulations, but the resources of national property, national or public resources to direct national law, and third, regulations concerning the nature of the country. Not even after all the work we've been doing, we'll get rich. Then I think, and I thought it very unlikely that we should start putting the regulations on this in the Senate resolution. But I agree with what. A senator that and we have often discussed, that when we senators celebrate December 1, that the context of the section, history, and so on, was desirable to the schools of the country, i.e. not only students at the university but also at other schools, taking that day to heart, and covering a little bit over the importance of the nation's independence campaign. For this reason, this conclusion is given in the synopsis proposal, i.e. to ensure that for a long time, we will remember these key points in our independent struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u18	A respectable president. I rejoice in a very progressive controversy proposal to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the national sovereignty and independence. It's a day that's beginning to fade into memory, especially for young people. I think it is very important that we lift these events back onto a higher level, and that is why, as mentioned in the Senate arrangement, it is most fitting to remember in various ways about the culture of the nation. The one that stands here is the chairman of the Constitution Committee. During this season, a Senate committee has worked very hard on national policy. I'd like that, for example. Note that in the City of Þingvall, on spring or early June 2014, an excellent meeting was held with the Parliamentary Committee and the Council Presidency Committee. A high degree of agreement was made with the currently existing members of the Parliament who have been involved in a policy strategy presented in a sleazy draft. It was presented in one of five or six suggestions. I think there were some wonders at our meeting on June 2014. One of the things to be considered is an expansion of the educational center at the Haak that has been worked hard in recent years. Now it's time to take the foundation for that expansion. The educational center there is about 200 square feet [200 square meters], but we are adding about 800 square feet [800 sq m], especially in order to make a showroom for the Inning Stadium, a cultural demonstration of the natural world. It is especially fitting, therefore, that we will have built up to open a generous show that has been done and that we have arranged for the company of Gaganin to design it. I'd like to guess what few people seem to know about, but the history of the Þingalva is naturally so interwoven in the history of our Icelandic people, but it's also so complex. I don't think many people realize that Iceland was the first country to take a vacation or holiday. They took two or three weeks off in the summer and rushed to Þingvall. It was actually set up in the spirit of commercial trades in the Middle Ages, with a wide variety of activities, as were fine medieval villages. There were craftsmans. They had sports. There was a court. There were brewers, and there were entertainments. There was also a marital market, etc. What a remarkable picture we can draw of our lives in the regions of ancient times! This summer camp stood for several centuries, which was like a decent place to shop, since at that time there was no store to be bought in Iceland. Þingalva's story is amazing when you start to study it. Because I mentioned natural creatures, it's much less remarkable, both the water and all the nature in there. I welcome this proposal in particular as chairman of the Constitution Committee. But I'm also very in favor of other proposals that are in this fine pact of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u19	A respectable president. I am very proud to be a part of the celebration of December 1, 1918. This story of misery, and of defeating all the streets of the 1880th century, by the fires of Skaft Rivers, gives me a lot of thought. Some of that story is recorded here on the streets of the house, e.g. such as one failure in the Constitution meeting of 1851, the National Conference. Although he was considered a failure, he was no less fortunate than after a constitution some years later, 23 years later. This process of 1851 and even earlier, when we were as miserable as we were - it is worth remembering that the big breakthrough was 1918, then Iceland's sovereignty was confirmed. It is true that women were in contact with Denmark, but Iceland was a free and sovereign state of 1918. Certainly, December 1 was not set aside as a national holiday. I think that would've been done sooner. It is registered here on the halls of the house, on June 17, at the institution of Iceland's University on the birthday of Jón Sigurðsson. But sovereignty and independence are tangible. It's measurable. In my consideration of the history of the latter part of the 20th century, there are a number of things that the nation found among the nations. It's, for example. International Society as early as 1944, when Iceland became an international bank member and the World Bank and the International Cash Fund. And later in that year, when Iceland became an international member of the International Aeronautics Institute, approximately one year had been published. Twenty-seven flight cards. What a vision that was! At times, I feel that the major spoils of the 60's were not enjoyed here at the General Assembly. Rather, it was two people who won those victories that made Iceland a nation among nations. It happened at the same time, i.e. When Halldór Kiljan Laxness was assigned 61 years ago to the Nobel Prizes, and also for the following year, there was a grand report in the Morning newspaper that a young man had won a 1 and a 2nd chess tournament in Hastings, and after a few years he became a champion. The Friðrik of Ólafsson, grand champion, and Halldór Laxness served to protect a certain story in the Icelandic Empire, independence. Let us remember these phases. I am proud to be allowed to participate in this suggestion. Thank you, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u20	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason brought his own vision of the story, and when was the final success of our being a sovereign and independent nation? I don't intend to make comments to those explanations, they're his, I don't agree fully with them. I'm going to say that there were men involved in this institution that we're both sitting on as an elevator the biggest piece of rock. Anyway. I've previously described it here that I approve of this kind of suggestion being accepted. We are here remembering an enormous amount of resources in the history of Iceland in 1918, of course, 1904 which is, of course, that Dana's real involvement in Iceland's affairs has finally ended, and then Congress has been introduced here by the modern understanding of that word. After 1918, we had the same inheritance as that Danish, but it was absolutely clear that even though foreign languages were still in shape, all decisions were here. It is vital that we remember that for a small nation, it is important that they protect their historic way with some sort of events like these. To say that I think it could have been better to think about this proposal. There's nothing in it that I'm completely against. But I have already described my position that when we are remembering historical events involving the sovereignty, which concern our existence as a nation, the Senate in certain ways, we should also have focused on the fact that the General Assembly has been very busy with the last few years, which is the Constitution. I believe that there is not much room between men in that subject and sorting. Of course, I have a close listening ear and a clear understanding of the state of mind. Prime Minister moved here. Rather, he was out of the blue, hoping that it would be possible to reach some land in that regard. I allow myself to state that this understanding is not correct. I also allow myself to state that there may be a vision for men in that regard. In any case, it is clear that all groups here at the Council have expressed a certain attitude that takes to the biggest and most important factors. Me and the highest. Prime Minister is concerned. I agree completely with him about two of the three chapters as high as possible. A minister mentioned earlier, but I was not going to have a few discussions about it. In one matter, I disagree with him or would like to have things different. Of course, I am pleased as an old Parliamentary committee who is deeply concerned about Iceland's natural and historical history that it is particularly appropriate to raise the Field, not only to have a solemn meeting there, but also to have a demonstration of the history and nature of the Þingalve and to complete policy on the future affairs of the territory. It's been a matter of concern to them and it's always been, at least From the time that I entered into the assembly, be in good hands. They have been in particularly good hands at the highest. A minister of the environment, who has had a zealous and mismanagement in these matters, in large articles, but also in smaller ones that she knows I love very much. For that reason, I would have thought that since the Þings were supposed to become part of this memorial event, we should have gone beyond just having a show of history and natural life. Both are very important and highest. Environment Minister rightly stated that the importance of the movement of the Tingval and Lakes, unique to history, could well be balanced. As one looks back and sees how we have tried to introduce it to our own people, it is evident that throughout the time, some scholars have written very theoretical books on the Trinity that have never reached any special access to the hearts of the common people in the country. Made up like th' BjörnTh. Björnsson has certainly written some great novels based on the lives of the people who worked there. Photographs have published pictures of both nature itself, and the government has taken the initiative to publish books with famous paintings painted in the Trinity as role models. But there has never been a book written that deals with both the natural world and the history of the Þingalva in a simple way so as to have a way to the common people, a book, or literature that could be used, for example. To growing generations. Of course, the only publication I remember of that sort is the marvelous little English book of Professor Björn Þorsteinsson, which deals with the history of Þingvala in a very simple and pleasant way. I would have thought that for this reason the council should simply decide that such a book would be written. I have personally proposed informally that one of the former members of the Constitution Committee, i.e. Björn Bjarnason, who is a funded source of information on this and online information about all the elements and history of the Matrix, would be such as assigning such an assignment. I'd like to have seen a suggestion about this in the excellent suggestion. The next thing I'm going to kill is that I feel free when we refer to school as a turning point in 1918. I would also have thought that if people were going to observe this milestone, they should have chosen to spend money in order to make the study of this subject. The history of the former part of the past century is at a low rate, which was so important in the shape of our national life and our molding as an independent nation. I would have thought that the General Assembly of Iceland could have made it better by choosing to write literature about the time, how they developed, who bore them, what the consequences were, and how we enjoy this struggle today. At the latest, of course, it is so, as is amply pointed out in a paper with the synopsis that there are students, mostly students at the University of Iceland, who have kept this day's memory in focus. If it weren't for their performance and annual celebrations, annual meetings in which they even prefer the autumn committees to care for the event, a committee that seems to be such an aid, that these are sometimes the most oppressive elections of Iceland's University. I would have thought that it would be more appropriate for some of the Icelandic students to come to these celebrations. The fact is, in their time and before 1900, and until that chapter exchange, it was primarily in the home and in the Dolphins who had roads and problems with this struggle and carried it up. Mr. President. As soon as I declare that I cannot help but vote with this suggestion, I think it could have been viewed deeper and it could have meant more to her than it was. In other words, I feel that it was put together in a relatively short period of time and that it could have been made much better, in a way that would have benefited both the sacred place, the original Assemblyplace of the Icelanders, the Þingað, and the remaining generations, in order to make these events and their history more accessible to them. Also, I believe that in this suggestion, it should have been higher than that of the group, which most certainly came to the history of the independence struggle that was Icelandic students, first in Copenhagen and then at the University of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a committee party after 2nd. and through the 3rd. now for the bill to legalize social security laws, social assistance laws and the laws on the issues of the elderly, with subsequent changes. This is from a greater proportion of welfare committees, but the case was referred again after 2rd. Pension age in a public labour market and in the public not the same as government employees can generally begin taking a pension age of 65 and of the average labour market at 67 years of age. A majority of the committees agree that it is important to coordinate the pension rights of the pension system before it is possible to increase the pension date within the social security system. Therefore, it is suggested that its regulations in the bill be removed. The majority of the committee, however, reiterates the future policy that a country's pension age will be 70 years in terms of both the pension system and the social security system. So it is important that the increase in pension age within these systems remain in the light of the vital interaction between these systems. According to the above, a greater proportion of the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes: We're on 2. a. Instead of the words "470 years old, "" 1stmgr. " Come: 67 years old. b. Instead of the words'6:18 - 70 - year - old (or, 1st - year - old). Tel: 16 to 67 years of age. c. 2th paragraph. ... goout. Halldóra Mogensen, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this proposal. Under this heading, write why. paritaprevir And the ruler of the matter, Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, president of the committee, why. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, who. paritaprevir In advance, the Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir signs the committee's opinion, but in other respects, it is signed under the opinion of the committee. Councilmen of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Konráðsdóttir Brásdóldótttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, Ragnheiður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u22	V.E.G. President. I'd like to sign this in advance, and I'd like to come here for a moment and tell what it is about. When a bill to legalize the changes to the pension rights of public employees was discussed at the General Assembly, I directed my inquiry to the highest level. The secretary of finance to see if these pensions had been examined in context as well as discussed in talks, and then I again took up this context of speeches at the General Assembly at the 2nd. Change of social security law. I have considered it very important from the beginning that when we discuss changes in pension age, we make it whole. So I like the changes that are being made between the 2nd and 3rd. where this is to be considered in a better light, but it is reasonable to think how late the proposals have come up. I can't figure out if this is really enough, if we can handle the situation with these adjustments, although I'm sure they're improving, and that's why we're on the case. I also find it important to reiterate about the rise in pension age to 70 years, which we in left greens have not resisted but have repeatedly, and I want to reiterate it here and now, that we need to have a very good look at the rates of pensions with regard to the employment opportunities of older people, for we all know that older people have had a hard time finding work, and we need a certain change of attitude in society because of that. We must also keep in mind that the incidence of disability is greatly increased, especially in women over 60 years of age. Thus, we can expect an increase in the incidence of disability in the age range of 67 to 669 years. This is important to me, too, when considering these matters. According to this, I sign this opinion on the committee in advance and support the changes proposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u23	A respectable president. Toward the end of this discussion, I would like to arrive at a few points. First of all, it was a great pleasure to achieve a agreement to increase the pension age or the pension rights in the social security system in the way that this bill was prepared. It was clear to everyone when the decision was made that it harmonizes with the work being done between the labour market partners on the equivalent of pension rights. There has been no disagreement. As I say, it's a pleasure to have been able to see the need for a rise in pensional age because it creates space for the rise of rights in the system without the future burdening the state funds over, and the rise to 70 years remains in the hands of more and more generations getting better pensions in the coming decades into the pensions age. But I can't pass because we're passing out the bill of the proposal for an increase in pensional age, because we haven't fully agreed on the equivalent of pension rights, taking it up at the end of the discussion how serious this case has become. We already have a B-SLSR over 500 billion commitment, an unsaid 500 billion commitment. From 2025 to 2026 p.m. will have to take on about 25 billion a year, it will go up very quickly to about 20-25 billion each year, and save each year until the last party has taken a pension right out of the LS, B-C. This is a huge commitment, and it grew dramatically in the last wage contract. It's just the B Company problem. And then there's the A Company that we're going to go to the full-funded with the equations of pension rights. I'm sorry, they're not going to make that deal with this council. That's very sorry. But here are very serious things that will upset the labour market if the council does not bind up the things as soon as possible. Not everyone involved in this case is going to do it by putting in some of the advantages and setting others up against a wall. There should never be a way to put the council against a wall, and neither can this be done to individual parties. The only thing a man should look at is that we are not praising the future unpublished, that we ensure that Iceland's pension rights are equal, self-sustained, and fully rewarded. That's what this project is all about. We know that one of the major challenges to the future is to maintain stability, low inflation, and lower growth. This is a key operation in it. So I have to come to the end of the discussion as I rejoice in the degree of legal compensation. Although the 70 years of this cycle are not reached, here is a serious compensation. I want to thank all those who have come to this matter for their contribution.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u24	Mr. President. I wanted to explain the votes of a pirata. We support this change in welfare committee proposal, but we may not fully agree with the vision of the future, that the pension age in this country should be 70 years. This is a discussion that is still taking place, when the retirement age should be. Of course, this should be so that people have flexibility and choices. For the whole bill, we're in yellow there - maybe I'll come back and explain it out, can we? Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u25	A respectable president. I want to come up here and thank the welfare committee very much for our cooperation this morning and yesterday regarding the changes we're making on the bill. Once again, I want to use this opportunity to congratulate all of us on the tremendous changes we may face as many as possible. These are all the biggest changes to simplify the social security system that have been done for decades. This has been done in good collaboration with the elderly, who have been at work for years and have finally found that the council is doing these changes. We're trying to simplify our system, enhance flexibility, and we're ensuring those who have a value comparable to those mentioned in the labour market. This is an enormous interest issue. I'm very happy that this is going to be the law today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u26	Mr. President. The social security bill came in here in September. It will not be said that much time has taken to review the matter at the council. On the other hand, we at the government stand have tried to pay for the case, especially the representatives of these classes on the welfare committee. What is left is that we have supported all the compensations that have been proposed here, as well as the system changes for the elderly. However, the organization of disability is not content with the changes proposed in this matter, and we feel that there is a better way to give it more time to settle the matter. The Government Department has repeatedly suggested our proposals in the smaller part, now last night, in which we considered more just ways to achieve better quality for these groups. But in view of the better quality of some dressers than none, we have supported these suggestions, but we will sit next to the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u27	V.E.G. President. We in the Union support the implementation of the system change, but we also regret that similar changes have not been made in microenergy pensions. We've been supporting every pensioner's award but we can't support the government's methodology. Our proposals went out on higher payments and smaller reductions, but the forwarding party and the Independence Party rejected them. If we get to power after election, it'll be our first job to change the social security money according to the suggestions of the less part now.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u28	V.E.G. President. In the bright future, we support the current adjustment proposal, especially to the ASI requirement, where these requirements are being met. We're glad there's a deal to change that. But we're in yellow on our own. Despite the fact that this is being done in a tremendously good way, the quality of an older citizen in particular and disability, there are a lot of things in this method that we don't agree with. An adjustment proposal on our part, which was submitted yesterday and dropped, was, like, a rough one. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir told of earlier, to a great improvement. It was also very tragic that the desperate were not included in this closing pack. What a joy it would have been if everyone could have cooperated in this important matter, especially in honoring the memory of the man who met Pétur Blöndalur, who was most zealous in setting this up! It is also surprising that after 11 years and hundreds of meetings, we will not agree. It's also very sad. But it's a good dresser. We're happy, but we're gonna have yellow on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u29	President. How sad it was that all changes made from the smaller parts were dropped! How sad that poor people will still be left to wait! Of course, the Pirantar and the smaller section support reforms for the elderly, but this methodology is absolutely impossible. This methodology is not something Pirates want to promote. So we won't support the case, but we won't try to stop it, either, because some dresser's better than none. I challenge all those who have the opportunity to take on a career for the public after the election to promote something that will be done for the poor in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u30	V.E.G. President. In the left green, we support a system change for the elderly. We have also voted with all the changes proposed that will increase the provision of bio-employers, though we in the smaller part have proposed, and, in our opinion, a much better suggestions for reforming. We also support looking at the interaction between different pension systems, but because of the way all of this has been done here, we will sit behind the whole case.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u31	V.E.G. President. Here we vote on a huge and important matter for the benefit of both elderly and desperate. This is a 5.3 billion dollars. increased into the social security system of changes in older people's affairs, including A dollar to a dollar is stopped, and the team of reforms is united. There are 4.5 billion vacation markets for all incomes for the elderly and disability, and 1 billion are taken up for both the elderly and the micropigs. However, it is very important to complete the system changes now being done by the Ministry of Health and to complete discussions between disability and the Ministry of Health. It must be done as soon as possible. But I reiterate that this is meeting the demands that something is done for the lowest in the system, and that's the Government of the Foreign Party and the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u32	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry to see one inexorably opposed senator after another coming up here, who doesn't think he can vote with this bill because of some methodology. There is evidence that they will not be on the red button, nor will they turn back because these are some compensations, that they are better than none. This is an enormous amount of compensation, with no parallel, never having a parallel. [[We're going to make a decision...]] And then people come here and say, "We can't vote with this." I'm very sad to hear that. I wouldn't have believed that men couldn't keep up with it the way this is done. [[Up front.]] It's amazing, and then bringing some ridiculous surface proposals because there's an election that no one is involved, and they've never shown any interest in such things before... [[You've dropped it five times.]] It's a disgrace to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u33	A respectable president. This is an enormous step of progress, an enormously improved effort. But here are members of this hall who have declared that they are not going to accept the bill. If you're sitting next to him, you don't vote with this. It's as simple as that. If we're all sitting by in this room, these groups won't get these dressers. [[Up front.]] It's just the fact of it. [[Up front.]] This is a councilroom or something. Senators who repeatedly talked about their working for these people. But when they have the opportunity to improve its interests, they do not vote with it. [[Up front.]] It's as simple as that. I have to admit... and now I have to. þm. It's Sigríður Ingibjörg for one more time, and it's fine. [[You took all the suggestions...]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] But this is where the will of the senators is expressed. Do humans want to improve the interests of this group or not? [[The president calls.]] Those sitting next to them don't want to. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u34	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Gullious Þórðarson is not supposed to explain to me what I'm doing here in my seat when I vote. I'll tell him what I'm doing. I don't think this bill is good enough. Is that clear enough? That's why I'm embarrassed. I would have done better. It's as simple as that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u35	There won't be any dressbacks if they don't vote...
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u36	A respectable president. I have to agree with the words that have fallen here, I don't really understand a person's dwelling on this case because it's such an enormously improved dress that is being done here for the elderly, the most important one ever made, at least for a very long time, and it's especially for the elderly who is less fortunate. I want to say this here, because I belong to this group, of course, a large portion of the elderly in Iceland have it very good, let's be quite aware of that, but there are some who have landed between ships and docks and they need to be helped. I don't understand that a 10 billion increase is now not supposed to improve anything - 10 billion. And that people don't want it for the less fortunate ones, for the elderly - I just don't understand them. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u37	V.E.G. President. I just have to come up here because of what. Government members are so harsh and pendant. It should be noted, then, that the forward section and the Independence Party have once, two, three, four times, five times the suggestions of the smaller section on raising the payments for pensioners to increase the equation in the country. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This share of directors has made many political decisions to increase the level of inequities in Iceland. Our memory at the Council is not going to be part of it. Our suggestions have all gone in a different direction. [[Take it forward: To make it better.]] [[Up front.]] We can afford to secure an equation in Iceland, although the greater part of the forward movement and the independent party have looked to the wealthier groups in their actions. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u38	A respectable president. It is strange to listen here to the votes of the senators, especially the votes of the senators who sat in the government during the last term. They're the sort that went into the basic benefits of life insurance for the first time... honorable President, may I continue my speech in peace before thenhv. þm. I live Sigríður Ingadóttir? [[You are now.]] [[You are now, Vigdis. Don't you get the bill?]] [[The president calls.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u39	--cultures.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u41	President's asking for a sound. Hv. Senators have only one minute to account for their votes and discuss the vote here. President's asking for a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u42	Thank you. It's weird to hear the votes of the groups that even entered the basic insurance benefits of their last term when they scream out there that it's not enough. When is it enough for these people, the present government of opposers? When is that? This is actually meeting all the demands of the government from the latest budget of about 300 of you. K. January 1, 2018, and so on. [[The president calls.]] This is a terrible statement, a respectable president, and these categories are not a credit factor, especially in view of the fact that the United States spent six years in a government and could do whatever it wanted to do but cut the benefits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u43	A respectable president. I have to admit that I feel sad on this last day of the Senate when there are changes in the social security system in terms of paying money to senior citizens, when there are three reforms to one, when you are adding up compensation to the parties, that we can't finish this bill in a more comfortable agreement, although there are people here who think you can do better. I must admit, more dignified President, that I find it quite sad. But I would also like to point out that here we take only to those in nursing homes and pensions of older citizens with the social security system. We're not going into changes in this system for disability, unfortunately, that's left. Let's hope the next council succeeds with the first. A respectable president. I support this bill, and I want to say that in this terms, whether people like it better or worse, benefits have been raised by tens of billions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'm sure you can always do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u44	V.E.G. President. It's kind of amazing to listen to a word or two. Councilmen who did not participate in the discussion with the 2nd. about changing the social security law and, as a result, have not entered our argument in the memory part of the part of why we wanted to go another way for the improvement in the social security system but yesterday voted against all of our changes. At least we've voted with what's been doing here, which, of course, is better than nothing. However, because the question is, When is the right time to do even better, if he had been right now? He's already doing well in the community. Now is the time to deal well with those who are worse off in society, then the time to do really good with the elderly and the micro-terrestrials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u45	A respectable president. At this last conference, with me and a lot of us, I would've wanted us to have had a way of finishing this case. I think it's quite remarkable to listen to the interpretations of what it means to sit next to you. We all know that when we are not opposed to the situation, we all feel that it is good, but that we had done it differently. I look forward to watching the General Assembly and watching members of Congress go to a speaker and explain this and see how they vote, for example. On the basis of financial and other matters, we are not against the budget groups as such but would have done so differently if it had been up to us. I think it's pretty clear, and I think it's some kind of buttercup on the last day that I don't quite understand. I just wanted to have that said here for the last time I'm gonna step into this fine, respectable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u46	A respectable president. Here, the discussion is actually divided between two groups. On the one hand, it is pensioners, older citizens, who are getting a lot of compensation for these changes. It is only a matter of hearing at the Hall of Congress that most people agree on this, and that is quite undisputed. This is done on the basis of changes in the pension system, social security, which have been in agreement with them. This is an enormous step. However, the government groups are under great criticism because they do not change their system for disability. But we simply decided that, because of failure to cooperate with the microchip, we would not push them over with one - side changes in that system. We've emphasized our effectiveness assessment. That job must be continued, but since it did not succeed, their system is unchanged. Know what I mean. Here, repeatedly, people come up and say: It sucks that there's an increase in the future. Who is her author? Who was the one who put the most emphasis on raising the special progress that everyone from the position of government criticize? [[The president calls.]] Good necks, it's Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u47	A respectable president. I hope that men will reconsider their minds and support these great compensations for the elderly, including disability. I also hope we can agree to come together to complete a global reexamination of the social security system during a new term, in contrast to what happened on the Social Security Committee. I want less of it. The members of the Social Security Committee represented all political parties who were there to agree with the bill I presented. This is where we're doing even better. I find it very difficult to understand that people can't support suggestions they previously supported when even more money is being added to the pensioners. I sincerely hope that men will reconsider their stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u48	A respectable president. Why should we be critical of the extent to which much of the marked increase is involved in the domestic bread and supplementation? This is because these joints are missing. These joints take a coin down to one dollar, so, in proportion, this factor is being increased by one hand and taken with the other. [[It's not an older citizen.]] As we have been described here, it is the methodology that is not ideal to us because the government has emphasized it in this case from the beginning to try to use our social security system to equalize life spans for those who need the system. That's what this is all about. That's why we can't vote with the case. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u49	Mr. President. As I said before, I support this adjustment, but maybe not necessarily the vision of a 70-year-old pension age. I'd also like to say that if this case had been worked in more consultations from the beginning, it might be much more comfortable inside this hall with this... but the change in the memory of the section was dropped yesterday. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] You're making the exact same change we wanted yesterday, and you'll just drop it because we're in the smaller part, so you'll do this later. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u50	A respectable president. I'm glad that the greater part has decided to drop the change against the labor movement's will to raise the pension age to 70 years on the market. However, I would like to use this opportunity when I support this change and agree with the highest degree. A financial minister in his earlier words about the vote, of the important task that awaits a new council that is completing an equation of pension rights so that all the people of the country live with the same pension system and that we avoid the temptation to turn rights to the future into an unfavourable future and conceal ourselves by bringing up the needs of individual groups by creating some commitments that others may later have to pay. We're supposed to create and agree that at a new council, we're supposed to create one system for all the people of the country who are fully funded and therefore very important that all the cards in this case are on the table for a new assembly and that no one can avoid taking sides in this overall picture before the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u51	A respectable president. How sad it is to see far from the agreement that had been established a few days ago or weeks ago regarding equalizing pensions on public markets and public markets! [[Up front.]] Unfortunately, there was a misunderstanding, or it seems so, or something like that. Both sides argue. This is one part of the matter when at last the end of it was provided, like the highest. The minister of finance went on to explain, that about 100 billion people could be pumped into the private pension fund of public employees, equal the biofuel age in general and public markets, and that they have the pension systems just to flood staff between systems. A respectable president. Because of my conscience, I cannot pay this proposal my vote and sit by to show how much is at stake and how big a mistake is taking place at the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u52	V.E.G. President. I'm proud to have had little part in the fact that this case has come so far. I am proud that I had the privilege of working with Pétur the late Blöndalur and all the good people who were called on to reimburse social security and have been allowed to bring them to their ends. This case, as it lies, is not perfect. However, it is the largest step that has been taken for decades to improve the social security system. We all belong here, I think, to be happy about it and to be proud of being able to participate. We are not taking the step to the full. It'll be done soon. It was natural to be disappointed that the National Institute of Environment, or Management, decided to withdraw from the work that was in hand with the bills, but it was their decision to isolate themselves in that way and nothing to say. Therefore, their cases are not led to the smell of older citizens today. But as I say, this is a big step and let's be proud of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u53	A respectable president. At the same time as I'm glad we're improving this, I'm putting a question mark on a particular methodology and a particular procedure that was employed, including How late the bill entered the council. Many committees, many of whom, have not had time to intervene and have acknowledged that they simply could not understand exactly what was going on. I find it a little difficult to have received a proper explanation on the effect it will have to increase the decrease rate in some places, decrease it elsewhere, and so forth. At the same time as I'm celebrating this, I'm putting questions on the job. So I'm going to sit by this vote like the smaller part will, I think, in general, just because we have to do better, and we need to work more together. It's quite unacceptable that we're decoding changes because they came from the wrong direction. It's politics that we're not supposed to do anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u54	President. It is well known that when social security laws are being changed because of the complexity of the system, some will still have to live with a worse choice, even if the will is good. Not only has it been true of the existing government but it has been a part of this system. We would have liked, and together with others in the memory of the motion that this case would live between councils and that no one would live on the scene after a change. I would've wanted us to go that way. I would have wanted us to go this way in peace, but it wasn't like that because all the changes made from the smaller parts were dropped here yesterday. We support increases to senior citizens, but we do not support this method. We don't want to stick it up, that's for sure. I'm sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u55	A respectable president. Of course I'm saying yes. I'd like to use this opportunity and thank you very much for cooperating with the welfare committee, all the work it has done, not just in this major matter of change in the social security, but all the big things that the welfare committee has been doing for the approval of the council during this elected period. These include basic changes in the housing system, which will truly help those who have remembered, a new payment system will help those who have, at least, and now this fundamental change in the social security system. It's a giant step in the interest of the welfare. I want to thank you very much for the results you are achieving by supporting this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u56	Mr. President. As we have seen, in the United States we support the system changes being carried out in pensional patients and have supported all dressbacks for micro- and older citizens during this ideal time. But we can't take part in government groups to increase the balance of the decisions being made here. This is a decision to increase the proportion of eligible pensioners compared to those living alone. The pay is being raised to those who live alone by increasing the value of the data categories that are most affected by the system. These are bad suggestions for promotion. We have offered something better, especially in view of the high cost of pensioners, the cost of buying, the increase in money, only 50% of the minimum wage in the season. So I'm sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u57	A respectable president. I greatly welcome this system change and how we meet the worst in this system. I'm sad that the memory part doesn't support us on this journey and doesn't quite understand it, whether the evidence is that there's not enough cooperation here or that it's not a good idea to add 10 billion extras to this system. On the other hand, I am very pleased with the opinion of the committee that was here, the sequel to which all the members of the Senate are listed on the welfare committee, the importance of our understanding of the problems that have been discussed, including the following: of the highest. Secretary of the budget and what. paritaprevir In the Árni Páll Árnason, that in the two months following election, it awaits the council and the next government to handle a matter involving the equivalent of pension rights between the public market and extending the pension age from 67 to 70 years. I welcome the solidarity that has come here among all categories. This suggests that we can handle this in the next two months before the end of 2016. It's very important to Iceland's economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u58	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, at the General Change proposals from the smaller section, there were new proposals that assumed that in the case of micro-energy donors, all relief groups would be increased evenly. However, this was very late. There were no scenarios, and we all know that the system is complex, and the least movement of one of the teeth wheels within the system can have unexpected consequences on the effects of the overall pay of a pensioner. We cannot figure out exactly what happens to each individual. Therefore, the government must be responsible for the suggestions it is making. That's why I'm not going to vote for these suggestions of mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u59	A respectable president. Of course, I support this matter and say yes to the rest of it. From now on, I protested that the pension age was being restored, compared with what was on the bill because I believe it is one of the greatest and greatest changes to be made, i.e. To equalize the pension age between systems. I'll say yes to this bill. That's a big step forward. I'm proud to be a senator of the Agency's enterprise when these great compensations are reaching out to these groups. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u60	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote on this matter. Over the past two decades, five different committees are working to prepare for this. So it is very strange to hear, when many people have come up with a number of committees, that it is spoken of as not being consulted in this matter. This is amazing because these good people work tremendously for decades. But we are just so lucky, and we can be so proud that we are the ones that will take this step. We're the ones who get to do this legal thing. We are the ones who are allowed to influence the greatest changes in this system for decades to bring benefits to everyone at the end. Although not now, as I explained earlier, the time will come when this case will be addressed next, hopefully before the New Year's Eve. But let us be proud and joyful today.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u61	A respectable president. I would like to express the particular satisfaction that this matter is receiving the approval of the Council in the form it is being presented to the votes now, i.e. to initiate a request for the need to establish the office of a refugee agent or a comparable office, in charge of all matters of refugees other than research and decision making. I believe in this case there is a great justice for those who look to the Icelandic government who want to live here. I believe that it is not only legal for the people who are looking here but also for great administrative benefits in the refugee affairs. I thank the Allied Parliament for this payment and express special pleasure in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u62	Mr. President. I want to thank you for the quick treatment. In this regard and the clear stand we take against war crimes that attack health professionals, hospitals, emergency shelters, and other such activities in war - torn areas. These attacks have intensified. It is important that we speak clearly in this international language, so I welcome this release. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u63	A respectable president. Of course, it is very unfair that disabled people who live independently and who have personal assistance need a driver's license or live with someone with a driver's license to obtain a car's grant. However, by agreeing to the deportation proposal of the welfare committee, we offer them reasons to the highest degree. Social and housing minister to change the Regulation so that it will be taken out of it. That's a lot of justice. I love that smell. I'm very pleased to cooperate with the highest. Minister on the case and welfare committee. This is my last speech here at the Pontta IIis. Of course, for that reason it is very important not to lose control of your emotions and not be too virgin and not too much a centenarian, so I'm just gonna say this: The smell of this matter is, our work here in general, this nation is, of course, a bright future is, indeed, the highest. The President has been and is, and hopefully, my council has been this far, and hopefully the next council will be, and all of you dear colleagues and friends, are certainly better than nothing. [[Laugh at the conference room.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u64	The president thanks this much. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u65	A respectable president. We're here to accept one of the crazy senators as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has made it possible for Iceland to become a member of the European Space Research Institute, which is a great subject. Its background is that it was a case approved in the Pirata election system, and Helgi took it all the way. Here we are going to agree to investigate this matter, which will lead us to promote scientific activity in Iceland when it comes to weather thinking, when it comes to dandelion thinking, and so forth. This is great. It's just great how it was won, from Pirata's election system, into the council, and maybe we just go to the stars. ▪ Is asera on astra.How's it going?
ParlaMint-IS_2016-10-13-171.u66	President. I just wanted to thank the State Department and the head of the case for taking this case so that we can handle it at the General Assembly today. I'd like to quote a brief article by Kári Ká Helgason and Sævar Helgi Bragason on this matter, with President permission: A U.S.A. would return to work in the form of assigned projects. This does not include the indirect effects on the economy associated with innovation. The detailed assessment of the other states of ESAs concluded that for each million dollars spent working with ESA, 4 to 5 million were involved in a sliding company. The important thing is that on the way, you can tell Icelandic schoolchildren for the first time: Hey, guys, you can be astronauts!
