ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17199	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. So I'm going to give a brief opening statement to the Law on the Railway Safety Agency. This Law constitutes a continuation of the reform initiated after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the adopted Law on Railways as early as 2003. The reform following the Law on Railways was continued by the adoption of the Law on the division of the Croatian railway company adopted by the esteemed home. Following this, the Law on Railway Safety and, finally, last year, the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets, as well as a series of sublegal rules adopted under these laws. This Law surrounds one structural unit that the Republic of Croatia needs to be fulfilled before joining the European Union in the railway segment. This Law also encourages improvement of the rail safety system in the Republic of Croatia. This proposal of the Law shall be coordinated in the material part of the delirquent and structure of the Agency as an independent, independent and public institution. Its work, activity, and management, material and other rights has been arranged. Following the adoption of this law, the adoption and adoption of the statutes of the Agency by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will also be proposed by the future administrative council. This law opens a legal framework for the functioning of an independent body responsible for security matters as prescribed by the Directives, therefore, of the European Union guidelines. This Agency will aim to better monitor the management of the rail safety system. With this law, I also fully comply with the guidelines, impremise the European Union Directive 49 of 2004 on the safety of railway communities. I will say just a few words in the opening statement and on the budgets that are... for the work of this Agency, for its establishment, its functioning, and the way it will be established until full functioning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, for the implementation of this Act in the state budget, funds totalling 2 million and 600 thousand kuna will be provided. These funds will ensure a smooth start of the Agency's work and its personnel and material teaming. In the future, the Agency will generate revenue from the fees for the tasks it performs and these revenues will be revenue from the state budget. The Agency will be managed by a board of directors, and the Board and Director shall be appointed on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In order to speed up the continuation of the process of harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation, this law is proposed to bring together first and second readings and to enter into an emergency procedure. Here's so much in the opening part.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17200	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Ivan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17201	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The inclusion of Croatian railways in the European Union network is achieved through the creation of legal and regulatory conditions for the functioning of the domestic railway in a way consistent with the operation of European railways on a close legal basis. The process of modernisation, restructuring and liberalisation of Croatian Railways was initiated by the adoption of the Law on Railways in 2003 and 2004 which created the basic preconditions for further continuation of the process through the establishment of a new regulatory framework for railway safety through the adoption of the Railway Safety Act. On the basis of the purpose and objective of the Law on Railway Safety, as well as part of the new railway safety regulatory framework, it is envisaged to establish an independent body responsible for the security of the adoption of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency. The level of safety in rail transport is relatively high if traffic safety is compared with other carriers. However, the railways in Europe, as well as the national carrier in the Republic of Croatia, are going through a restructuring process in which the infrastructure management function is separated from the function of providing transport services. In this procedure it is necessary to maintain the level of safety achieved and preferably raise it to a higher level. The establishment of the Railway Safety Agency will make a significant contribution to improving rail safety. The Agency will be responsible for issuing, extending, changing and abolishing a solution on the safety of railway undertakings, infrastructure manager and legal persons carrying out transport for their own purposes. The agencies will issue an authorisation to start the operation of the structural subsystems of the railway system, to monitor whether the system parts of the structural subsystems comply with the basic requirements, to issue approvals for the necessary test shares, to issue licences for the use of railway vehicles, to issue licences for the management of railway vehicles, to monitor the validity of the registration of the rolling stock. The Agency shall also keep a register of railway vehicles. The Agency shall participate in the development of a regulatory framework in such a way as to participate in the preparation of the proposal for sublegal regulations necessary for the implementation of traffic safety. The Agency shall monitor the security management system of infrastructure managers, railway undertakings and legal persons carrying out the transport for their own purposes. The Agency shall submit a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, following Croatia's entry into the European Union, the Agency will submit the report to the European Railway Safety Agency. The proposal for a law on the Railway Safety Agency also addresses some issues that have not been regulated by law so far, which are necessary for the functioning of the Agency. It is thus determined that the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings are obliged to establish a security management system. The safety management system will ensure safe management of infrastructure manager and railway operator activities. The security management system shall determine the distribution of responsibilities for traffic safety and mode of control and at different levels of the management structure. This will ensure that exactly who in the organisational structure is responsible for certain issues related to traffic safety, which will also take responsibility for not taking the appropriate measures. The issue of a security solution for the infrastructure manager and railway carrier has so far been in the power of the ministry. And by proposing this law, that jurisdiction is transferred to the Agency. The Security Decision and the Railway Infrastructure Manager demonstrate that a safety management system has been established and that they meet the conditions for the safe movement of railways prescribed by domestic and international legislation. One of the more important functions of the Agency to contribute to the greater safety of rail transport is the granting of authorisation for the use of railway vehicles. The Agency will carry out a technical review of railway vehicles for which authorisation for the use of railway vehicles is granted. The Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes the adoption of this law, which will certainly increase the safety of Croatian railways, which is at an enviable level so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17202	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17203	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This spring we brought here in the Parliament one of the strategic Croatian documents: The National Programme for the Construction and Maintenance of Railway Infrastructure from 2008 to 2012 which, for some, is also an important step and a whole new phase in the development of the Croatian transport system. After most of the funds for traffic, capital investments have been placed in the construction of highways Zagreb-Split and Zagreb-Rijeka the focus of investments is transferred from road to railway. Investment in rail infrastructure was neglected. The last new railways were built in Croatia 40 years ago. We supported it because of the fact that investment in rail infrastructure is in full terms the word investment in economic development and, of course, in improving the living standard of the population. The foundation of the five-year national railway infrastructure programme consists of two projects, two railways of great importance for Croatia. The first project is already an existing Sava Marof- Zagreb-Tovarnik railway connecting the west with the east of Croatia at the border with Serbia. It will take place in the next few years with a large repair of the track, installation of telecommunications infrastructure and a system of remote traffic management. The second major project is the railway that follows the Pan-European Corridor 5B and is about connecting Botovo in northern Croatia to the border with Hungary via Zagreb with Rijeka. In part from Botov to Zagreb, a complete remont of the existing track will be carried out on an existing track and a second rail track will be built on certain sections, and the most extensive railway undertaking in that section will be the construction of a brand new railway Zagreb – Rijeka. According to the current railway built in 1873, it takes 10 hours from the Hungarian border to Rijeka by freight train. With a new double track, the freight train will cross the road in just 5 hours with a five-fold increase in the freight capacity of the railway. This track will further improve passenger transport. It will allow passenger trains to drive several times faster than ever before. For example, the journey from Zagreb to Rijeka will take an hour. The two most important directions will have a real value in increasing Croatia's competitiveness in the transport of goods, i.e. connecting eastern remote and overseas countries with Central Europe. The Croatian People's Party Club, apart from the fact that we have not received 30 per cent of the programme related to the cost of maintenance and management of the railway infrastructure, has given a great debt to the programme that we cannot conclude from it that after a five-year period, traffic safety will significantly increase in part of the responsibility of the Croatian Railways, and these are devices for ensuring rail and pedestrian crossings, because there are a large number of accidents with many human victims. In 2006. 80 with 17 dead. We estimate that 70% of railway and pedestrian crossings or around 1039 there are no insurance devices, i.e. Light-sounding signals, semi-defines and bumpers, but only traffic warning signs. Of this total number of around 68 railway and road crossings should be deniveled in cooperation with Croatian roads and local self-government. That program would be worth about 900 million kuna. Many, but it must be a Croatian priority because one human life has no price. The third major remark of the Croatian People's Party club stemmed from the fact that, given the long-term and technical-safe condition of the upper structure of the railway, we can normally or reinforcedly maintain less than half the total length of the railroad. On all others, it is necessary to do investment works or to close the railways for transport. We could not see from the program whether or not it would be railways during the observed period that we will not be able to maintain or invest normally or in modernisation, so they will be closed to traffic. Our other major comments were: the programme should provide for funds for electricity and remonting, etc. Zagreb ring, i.e. railway Zagreb – Zabok – Varazdin – Koprivnica – Zagreb. In this way, we would improve the travel of employees and those who are educated, who travel daily to work and schooling in Zagreb and reduce permanent migration to the capital. The funds should be provided and more attention should be paid to suburban transport in major cities such as Split, Osijek, Vinkovci, as the needs for this increase from day to day according to all indicators. The program does not pay enough attention to the maintenance and modernisation of the so-called ". local railways and local stations which have exceptional importance for the local economy and the population used by them. These projects can benefit from much more significant effects with relatively smaller investments than some projects on the so-called project. to the national level, which is why this programme should have given them much greater importance. All these remarks we have made in the debate and adoption of the five-year railway programme are now highlighted in the debate on the establishment of the Railway Safety Agency in order to argue that the inclusion of Croatian railways in the trans-European railway network and for traffic safety is not sufficient just for the harmonisation of the law and formal declarative position. Unfortunately, the five-year state-run railway programme is not a programme of optimism for transport safety because expert estimates are that we will have arranged not in the next five years, but only in 10 to 15 years. Because due to the perseverance of many railways, we will not be able to maintain normal or strengthened, and the program has not given us an answer whether or not to close them up. Because we don't see quality and safety in the program anymore in the suburban traffic of larger cities and in the maintenance and modernisation of many local railways and station. Because the average age of the train park of the Croatian Railways is almost 30 years, because the inclusion of new locomotives and wagons is half as slow as plans. Years of neglect and indemnity in the railways have made these tasks extremely difficult, so some say that if Croatia does not intensify efforts it will take twenty years for a more modern, or safer railway. It will certainly take a lot less than 20 and not much more than 5 years if the executive authority makes an effort to raise additional money to invest in modernization. So, quality and safety of rail transport. From where? Part of the privatisation of some of the accompanying activities of the Croatian Railways, but a much greater effort is needed in the use of the European Union funds. We cannot allow such a project that is significant to us, but it is certain that Europe will be financed with only 6% of the money from the European Union funds, one of the 18 billion kunas. The legislator says that the establishment of the Railway Safety Agency also takes the final step in harmonising domestic legislation with EU regulations when it comes to railways. That the last formal step, but we're still lying, we haven't gotten up yet and made the first real real step to confirm it in practice, we feel it in life. And everyone in Croatia alike. Of course, we want equal and competitive participation of the domestic rail system in the European Union's rail market. But the railway in Croatia should mean and be more than international directions east, west, north, south. She's in these two cross-sections today, and tomorrow she'll be the safest. We need quality and safety at all 3,000 kilometers of railway lines in Croatia, at all our road and road crossings and at all our stations. We need a result in the railway system, action, visible, real, faster concrete forward movement. For now, we feel that the normative acts of the Law on Railways, the Law on Railway Safety, the National Strategy or the Law on the Railway Safety Agency are still just dead letters on paper. The Croatian People's Party Club will, of course, support this law because of its orientation, aware that we are getting another beautiful European paper and based on it by hiring an administration that will hard and slowly insert into the first, let alone the fifth speed of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17204	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17205	Here, I'll do as much as the Rules of Procedure allows, but fellow Vincelj, his speech was completely out of line with the agenda. I'm correcting his entire speech. His speech on behalf of the club was...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17206	It's a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17207	I'm correcting the whole speech. The speech was for the 2008/2012 rail infrastructure principle programme. which brought this High House and we can no longer return to it for this item of the agenda, we can look for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17208	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, colleague Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17209	I'm correcting the whole speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17210	Second correction, Ms. Zastava Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll correct Agent Vincey because he incorrectly said in his debate that you didn't invest enough in railways, you invested more in highways. I don't know who you or we meant, possibly the Croatian Government and the competent Ministry of Railways and Development. I will only tell you one thing that the Government of Croatia is even all these years since it runs the Croatian state, investment has been in both highways and railways. Only the railways are invested 2 to 3 billion, these are huge funds for the development of railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17212	The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17213	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the Railway Safety Agency addresses certain issues which have not been regulated by law so far, which are necessary for the functioning of the Agency. It is thus determined that the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings are obliged to establish a security management system. The safety management system aims to ensure the safe management of infrastructure manager and railway operators' activities. The security management system shall determine the distribution of responsibilities for traffic safety and how to ensure control at different levels of the management structure. This will determine the precise organisational structure responsible for certain issues related to transport security, and withdraw responsibility for not taking the necessary actions in the conditions of the liberalised rail market. In this regard, with the perspective of the liberalised railway market, we believe that the establishment of a railway safety agency will make a significant contribution to improving rail safety. The adoption of this law, i.e. the establishment of the Agency, will continue the process of harmonising domestic legislation with that of the European Union through the adoption and implementation of the secondary legal rules of the European Union which regulates these issues. The Law on the Railway Safety Agency creates institutional and functional assumptions for the harmonisation and harmonisation of the organisational and technical structure of rail safety and rail systems as a whole in the Republic of Croatia with secondary legal regulations of the European Union, which regulate the area of safety and interoperability of rail transport and achieve a higher level of rail safety and thus facilitate access to the Republic of Croatia's rail transport services market by the European Union, thus justifying the adoption of the law by an urgent procedure. In this respect, the Agency will be in charge of the procedure of granting and abolishing a solution to the safety of railway undertakings, infrastructure manager and legal persons carrying out transport for their own purposes. The Agency will issue approvals for the start of work and supervise the structural performances of the railway system, issue licences for the management of railway vehicles, and monitor the validity of the registration of the rolling stock and keep the register of railway vehicles. The Agency will also participate in the development of the regulatory framework through the development of the proposal for sublegal rules necessary for the implementation of traffic safety. The Agency shall submit reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its business, and the European Railway Agency will also submit a report to the European Union after the entry of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, the Republic of Croatia will in institutional terms be compatible with the European Union rail system. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party supports the adoption of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency and we propose an amendment to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17214	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17215	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So to be, to express myself cynical since we're almost out of railroad, the safety of the railroad is almost 100%, especially that safety is at one envious level in Istria, it's almost absolute there, we don't have any connection with other parts of the Republic of Croatia, so there's nothing to be cynical about. However, in order for security to be absolute, I think the Croatian Government has also taken care of, and the railway management has taken care of the unions on the railway. How they made sure that security was almost absolute. They took care of no less than management contracts. Do you gentlemen know that on the Croatian railways and in their four companies, you have 411 managerial contracts at the moment. Our system is bankrupt, and on the Croatian railways we have 411 managerial contracts. What is particularly interesting is that the issuing management contracts, i.e. the salaries associated with the coefficients are received and 102 unionists representing 13 500 railway workers. Their salaries, earned or not, stand at about 1.5 million kuna each month. By which criteria they are determined, no one clearly knows, but we know that the coefficient is multiplied by the incredible 8 144 kuna. In addition, in only 7 months this year, the number of union managers increased from 74 to 102 people, so that buying social peace alone at the monthly level cost 800 thousand kuna. That could explain, say, the dissatisfaction of unionists to seek the replacement of incompetent administration. Therefore, if we want to talk about safety on the railways today, then the greatest security would be achieved if that incompetent administration got off the rails. There have been no competitions in the railways and railway companies for many years. A simple calculation shows that only on the salaries of top people in the Croatian railways is one of the biggest state losers each year amounted to 170 million kuna, which, if the holding company itself runs out of funds, then clear money comes from the state budget. What is also interesting is that now in the process of rationalising the costs of bankrupt railways, the administration proposes saving on telephone services, it proposes to turn off the lights across Croatian stations which is more or less an unusual measure, but perhaps I would say logical because indeed our railways or those who work there have nothing to do. So if there is no work, if they are not working they can be in the dark, but the problem of the railways in Croatia is primarily solved by large investments, not some railway safety agencies, although perhaps this security will be helped by this agency, for which we will also have to allocate considerable resources in the budget for its operation. So security, like I said, is achieved by large investments. With one track from Rijeka to Hungary, strengthening Rijeka port, industrialising Croatia, but what will we do when in Croatia only one county in its gross social product structure or only in one county in the structure of the gross social product industry as a branch is the first branch. It is in the County of Istria, regardless of how they all experience us as a tourist destination. Without withdrawing our investments, we're clearly underwritten. However, since we have decided among other things in due time it seems to be cynical, shut down and shipbuilding and this will be another contribution to the safety of the Croatian railway. The more industry we shut down, and we still haven't come to industrial production from the 90s, the more security on our railroads will be. Now whether there will be greater security and Croatian economies, Croatian citizens, we will see. For the end, just two more words about the tunnel of Cicarija or Učka, more precisely perhaps Ćicarija because the tunnel should go in length 14 kilometers below Ćicarija, but the name Učka clearly to us Istrians, that is this Istrian Olympus, that is St. Gora, so we will not argue about the name, only that the sooner the work begins. This building is promised, it is included in these plans and I pray that as far as possible we find ourselves under Učka or Ćicicarija, set a cornerstone and give one promising deadline to the citizens of Istria, Croatian railways, that this tunnel will eventually be built. If we do this then we will save the Croatian railways because they will withdraw a good part of the traffic I do not know from the south of Spain, the south of France, northern Italy through Croatia for one Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and all the way to Ukraine. I could, among other things, say how this system works on Croatian railways, what the salaries of the first people of that administration are, clearly far greater than the salaries of the President of the Parliament, the President of the Croatian Government or the President of the State, but apparently that nobody in this country is interested, it is important that trade unionists deal with the parking of parliamentary representatives. However, no matter what, I think this law will also be a small contribution to railway safety, so much will be supported by the IDS club, but the problem of the Croatian Railways is what I was talking about, not the formation of new agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17216	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17217	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I must correct Mr. Caine's incorrect claim to speak in Istria, there is no railroad. Those who have long followed the traffic know that the golden age of the railway was the 30s of the last century, and the railway in Istria that is today, he says it is gone, it is still a continuation of the system that was from the former state, and then these railways bonded across Slovenia to other traffic routes. That's completely incorrect. So the railroad isn't from now on, and of course we can agree in part with these investments and security, is it like this and that it's a system that isn't solved in one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17218	Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17219	Good afternoon, dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues from the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First, I'll look back on what you fellow Mance said was the golden age of the railroad in the '30s. People say that the development of a country is measured by how much its railway infrastructure is developed as well as by railways, for example. Japan, Germany and France are the leaders of this car and it must be the most developed countries in the world. In any case, by looking at this law on the safety of rail transport, on the establishment of an agency, so the regulatory agency, the SDP will support this law as it supports all the laws that are on the trail of Croatia's approach to the European Union and, as follows from our obligations of the legal ones, means still defined in 2003. The Law on Railways, and all for the purpose of market liberalisation, all for the purpose of approaching the Union and all for the purpose of modernising and restructuring the Croatian Railways. But we have a few questions to ask and we expect answers and we are obliged to start some topics that are not pleasant, which are painful, but these topics need to be discussed and these issues and problems addressed. Article 3 provides for the establishment of the Agency as an independent and independent public institution and by the fact that it is an independent and independent public institution, we consider it necessary for the SDP Club to submit the report to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. In this turbulent time where rail accidents are both due to high speeds and karg, as well as in passenger transport has become part of everyday life, we ask that this is necessary for the highest body of the Croatian state to have insight and a report on this regulatory body. Because the agency is definitely the regulator. This, through Article 6, speaks, paragraph (a) provides a security solution for railway undertakings and legal persons, therefore, without an agency, this solution cannot be obtained. A security solution for the infrastructure manager therefore cannot be obtained without the agency. The infrastructure manager and railway undertakings shall, at the request of the Agency, provide all technical assistance to the Agency, that is, paragraph 4 of Article 6. They shall also be obliged to allow the Agency to carry out the supervision and testing necessary for the performance of the tasks, that is, paragraph 5 of Article 6. So it is the regulator, an independent public institution, and therefore we are asking that the report, among other things, be submitted to this House, means the highest House of the Croatian State. And on the grounds that Articles 2.-5. where it is defined itself, means where it is defined who establishes the agency, so here it is envisaged as if the Government of the Republic of Croatia was founded, is not part of the harmonisation as it is actually seen. So Articles 2-5 are not part of compliance with European regulations, since it is a legislative system, meaning each country's special legislative system. Some have a presidential system, some have a prime system, some have a parliamentary system, we now have the kind of system we have. Therefore, these Articles 2-5 do not cover, so they do not refer to harmonisation in this part and therefore, I ask you, and we have submitted the amendment, to accept that remark. What is necessary to observe from this perspective and what a few words should be said about, and especially about this painful part, is the modernisation of the railway, the modernisation of the railway infrastructure and the transition of the Croatian railway in the light of the European Union's proximity. So here we are thinking that it's definitely done too little, or I'd dare say that the railroads are going through a turbulent period of stasis and fall. This is supported by the following data. Only in this last quarter of traffic fell 4.5% and was in constant decline. Transport of Croatian railways, decline of Croatian railways. There's a lot of big debts going on. In the Croatian Railways, we heard from companies that are in a way and specifically founded and that are gravitating the entire holding company, 13 and a half thousand people were employed. What about these people? So, because of the great debt these people have been forced to do so by the railways, it means that in some ways these negative trends in terms of the fall in traffic, the fall in income and the things that definitely bother and hurt the railway sector. What I have to say is that we're only half a year ago and it's not that it's not a topic for this debate because the theme about railways that are a painful topic for Croatian society, which is a painful topic for 13 and a half thousand people who live. For 13 and a half thousand human fates and for 13 and a half thousand Croatian families, it is definitely time and every place and it is the right place to discuss it and discuss it. Just six months ago, half a year ago, we had a rail transport strategy here, the development of railway infrastructure, meaning on a proposal in this House. Then, according to this strategy, 18 and a half billion kuna by 2012 is foreseen for the development of railway infrastructure, which we have also said is far too small for us, especially in that part of the use of European funds that are at the level of just one billion. So, we're just going to withdraw one billion of this plan from Europe, and we're going to finance 17.5 billion of what we are then, and we're repeating that it's unacceptable. With those 18.5 billion kunas, when you exempt the salaries, when you exempt everything we've warned you about, when you exempt the costs of the cold drive, we get that they can be remounted within a period of 5 years just 300 kilometers of rail or 60 km of a year. Or 100 km to build new stripes or 20 km a year, which brings information that it is a total of 80 km or renewed or new stripes and certainly too little. And I would personally be happier if, before this important European regulation, we had also received an action plan which we were then promised would be in the process by the end of the year. The action plan for the development of railway infrastructure, but on the basis of the strategy. I have to say right now, that I wouldn't be in the skin of whoever's going to write, whether you're Secretary of State, that action plan. Because with that wish list that's been made there, at 18.5 billion over 5 years, and we've heard what part, so maybe 8 billion will go on and on the basis of a collective contract on just an increase in wages and severances. I wouldn't write an action plan because it's something with that wish list that's very, very hard and very hard to do. I'd dare say impossible. Also, when it comes to the modernisation of HZ, unfortunately through this strategy we did not have what the strategic goals of the Croatian Railways were. The strategic objectives are measured in figures. In the world today, everything is measured in numbers. How many increases? How much of that? What will happen during this five - year period? I wish we had the strategic goal of becoming the leading land carrier in the Republic of Croatia and one of the three leaders in the region. I have a feeling that we are the connection, that Croatian railways become one of the three leading carriers in the region, lost. Unfortunately. I feel like we've lost that connection. I would like us to be able to increase passenger transport to 55 million by 2012. So I wish we had set that strategic goal and set an ambitious goal even if we didn't meet it, but that we set an empirical goal, that we set an exact goal. But that didn't happen. I would like to set the target of increasing goods to 25 million tonnes annually by 2012, but unfortunately that has not happened either. And we need to act more in this sector. Otherwise, cargo transport is profitable in every country. Cargo transport will complete... markets will happen that foreign carriers on our territory will offer goods transport services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Travel transport in every country is subsidized and means in the passenger section is something that in some way also means in modern world economies, in modern countries, it gives state subsidies to make it easier for citizens to get from A to B, because it is important for the development of a complete economy. However, cargo transport is extremely important and it is profitable everywhere, only with us it is not profitable. I also wish we had set an exact goal that we wouldn't have an 80km renewal or a new railroad a year, but 150. 'Let's set that goal double, 'let's see how we can restructure it, because unfortunately again I have to notice that we are a connection to be one of three, so Croatian railways, leading land carriers in the region, lost. From everything I said at the beginning, and again, the decline in HH revenue alone in this quarter of 4.5%, the decline in traffic, huge debts, a large number of layoffs, unfortunately I wouldn't want to find out here today that we're going to be. Croatian railways find a similar fate as a shipyard. We also heard a colleague, Caine, talking about 411 managerial contracts in a company that has 13.5 thousand employees, doing so at a great cost, and I would not want Croatian railways to have the same fate as shipyards. And that means creating big debts that can't be recovered. Once we enter the European Union, there are no more subsidies, no more this classic form of support and the same Croatian state will not be able to intervene in that part, especially if it liberalises the market until the end, and we are working on it because we are harmonising the laws. And finally, what is necessarily happening as a consequence, cheap sales of Croatian railways, so cargo transport and lay off workers. 13.5 thousand people 13.5 thousand human fates 13.5 thousand families would not want the drama of their families to look on the road and that Croatian railways that did not have a chance, and I hope they still have a chance if something was to stand up, stand on their feet, I would not want them to be hit by the fate of Croatian shipyards, and if nothing is to be done unfortunately, that is what will be the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17220	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17221	Mr. Vice President, I have to correct the incorrect allegations of a respected representative, who says, so we don't have any strategy. I'd go back a little bit to that railway history, but we still have it tied to somewhere in 1873, then a bloom there in the '30s when it was dominant over road traffic, and means capital investment in that sense wasn't up to this government which now promises in its programme and I believe it'll build this railroad again, is it shorter this same direction that also meant one swing for the next 50 years. I feel so much that this finding is incorrect, because today, in that part of the strategy, there is one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17222	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17223	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the process of harmonising with EU legislation, we are just ahead of the establishment of another agency as an independent regulatory body with the public authority of the Railway Safety Agency. The agency said the proposal will regulate, manage and oversee the rail safety system. So regulate, manage and monitor. So, the agency will also be said in close cooperation, better tell the European Railway Agency and other EU security authorities. Therefore, the role of the agency is very important and given the importance of rail transport, both passenger and freight. I believe that in the future this traffic in the Republic of Croatia will be much greater. The truth with this is that we are entering the right competition, we are actually creating further assumptions for the liberalisation of railway infrastructure, because by passing a new law, we are already on the move. I am convinced that this will benefit us in the long run, although at first it will create a series of difficulties. A bottomless pit needs to be rescheduled and abandoned. Here's a bit of a harder expression, but it's important. I'd say picturesquely that the bottom should be, if it has to be somewhere within reach of the hand, and not some sort of permit the abyss. Since the agency is an independent and independent public institution, the founding rights on behalf of the Republic of Croatia will be exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and will function in accordance with the Law on Institutions and Statutes to be adopted on the work. Therefore, as well as institutions, they will have their own administrative board and directors appointed and resolved by the Government, in accordance with the draft of this law. It is also noted that these appointments will need to take care of a possible conflict of interest, which is also good. Railway carriers will have to have a safety solution. The Security Decision to be issued by the Agency and the infrastructure managers will have to have a solution to security for the management of the railway infrastructure issued by the Agency as well. So these are all important and significant shifts. Of course, it will also be necessary to adopt certain sublaws and regulations by way of the entry into force of this law. This bill also provides for this. So another step is to improve, market competition and liberalisation of the Croatian Railways, which will bring us all positive shifts and I therefore believe that this law should be supported and accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17224	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on the Railway Safety Agency is proposed to ensure the rapid continuation of the process of harmonisation of the rail system with the regulations of the European Union, in accordance with the deadlines laid down by the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union, which has successfully begun the adoption of the Law on Railways and the Law on Railway Safety, and in view of the nature and economic significance of the railway and the need to ensure conditions in the domestic rail system for equal and competitive participation in the European Union's rail market and to enable rail transport to be safely carried out in accordance with the requirements of the European Union as quickly as possible with the integration of the Croatian Railways into the trans-European rail network. The process of modernising the restructuring and liberalisation of the Croatian Railways was initiated by the adoption of the Law on Railways, which created the basic preconditions for the further continuation of this process through the establishment of a new regulatory framework for railway safety through the adoption of the Security Act, in accordance with European Union regulations. This draft law regulates the delirquency and structure of the Railway Safety Agency as an independent and independent public institution with public powers, its work and activity, the management of the Agency, the material rights and other rights and responsibilities of the members of the Governing Council. Competence in the conduct of the Agency's work surveillance, the adoption of the statutes of the Agency by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Governing Council and other issues relevant to the functioning of the Agency as an independent and expert body. The Republic of Croatia plays a significant role in the functioning of the European transport flows as a transport and integrated part of Europe, which also sets out its development needs in the area of rail transport and its strategic objective of linking with the European environment and equal integration in European integration. As part of the new railway safety regulatory framework, the establishment of an independent safety authority by adopting the Law on the Railway Safety Agency with the basic task of regulating, managing and monitoring the rail safety system and establishing and overseeing the operation of the system of safety of infrastructure managers, railway undertakings and legal persons carrying out transport for their own purposes is envisaged. The proposed law will create a legal framework to enable the achievement of the functions of an independent railway safety authority with a view to better monitoring of the safety management system of railway operators, to provide non-discriminatory equal access to all participants in the rail market under equal conditions, and to ensure the professional and efficient management and surveillance of rail safety system management and control activities as a whole, as well as to public authorities, the organisation of the Agency as security authorities. I think it's necessary for all of this to be passed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17226	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17227	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The indisputable fact is that Croatia is a very territorially small country in the world and European frameworks, located in one and in its traffic position limited in such a way that it plays an extremely important and important role and a significant role in the functioning of all its European flows from those air, water, and those connected to the road, and certainly it is by the railway. Not from today, but through history practice has confirmed it, and it is undeniable that significant investments during the past period in the total transport infrastructure were one of the most important strategic elements of the Croatian Government, particularly in road and then through certain activities and in rail transport. The involvement of Croatian railways in the European railway network, therefore, is primarily done through the creation of certain preconditions, therefore, normative and legal conditions which they must achieve in order to make this inclusion possible. We also know, more or less, that today, all of us here in this Assembly speaker know that the normative process of modernising and restructureing the Croatian railway has started with the adoption of the Law on Railways in 2003 and 2004, thus creating assumptions for the establishment of a new regulatory framework for the safety of the railway itself. This was ensured by the adoption of the Railway Safety Act in 2007 and immediately here should also be noted that this Railway Safety Act is also in line with European Union regulations. This Law clearly states, therefore, that the Security Act speaks and foresees the establishment of an independent body which is responsible for security, which is precisely the adoption of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency and is accomplished with three basic tasks. This is under (a) regulation, under (b) governance and under (c) monitoring of the rail transport system, which is related to three segments, which are: the infrastructure manager of railway undertakings and legal persons carrying out transport for their own purposes. Therefore, it is clear and clear from previous exhibitors' speech that the ranks of the ruling and of the opposition, that the adoption of this law is positive and that there is no dilemma in it. I would perhaps, in the context of this speech, mention exactly the currentity which is related to the safety of rail transport, and particularly to the data relating to rail road transport. And today, or we know these last years that about 400 crossings across railway lines, across the roads, we have secured defenders and half-defensors, which means it's something below 40%, but it's interesting to note that on average, over 640 incidents that irresponsible road users, primarily road traffic damage to their vehicles, or in a way that improper behavior poses a question of their own life or the lives of passengers in the railway. So, I'm taking the opportunity from this constituency booth to appeal to the behavior of all road users, because the safety of rail traffic, but in this context, it's related to connecting with road users are extremely and day-to-day networked and, accordingly, this information tells me in favor of it. I can also say that today about 60% of the crossing across the railway line we still have only traffic signs, which means that from the safety aspect and in the context of further development of the railway network, absolutely one of the priorities of modernising and building new railways and all of what is related to rail infrastructure needs additional quality and in an adequate way to ensure other railway crossings in order to bring the safety of all road users to an even higher level or even more quality approach to preserve the lives of our citizens because on average, over 20 people die in direct car or other road traffic primarily compared to rail compositions. And an even bigger number like that is injured. So knowing that our people's lives are the most valuable, but we also know that this creates great material damage which further affects the work itself and the functioning of the railways as well as the state budget as a whole. Not wanting to elaborate further, therefore, I am taking the opportunity to pass this law, which is also what fellow predecessors have said and comply with the laws of the European Union can confirm that I will personally be in favour of the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17228	Thank you. A few replicas. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17229	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, in this presentation, colleagues point out the special value of the Agency's Law on Of course European Standards, European Laws. I would like here a nuance for us who are on the ground leaders of local self-government units pointed out as one of the great interests of cities, the municipalities of which is to adopt this Law on the Agency for the Safety of Railways because by establishing this agency we get one partner, one institution with which we can directly communicate as cities, municipalities interested in improving security in the field of a single unit of local self-government. So far, such a specialized agency has not existed within the Croatian Railways. There has been a lot of heavy communication about these parts of safety in rail transport in the area of individual units of local self-government. Today, after the establishment of this agency, all cities and all municipalities believe that with interest and interest, they will address their needs, their priorities in removing potentially insecure spring crossings, road crossings across the railways, walking crossings across the railways, and that in a short time they will receive adequate and quality answers and I believe that the agency staff will also have in their programme a tour of the terrain where they will be able to convince on-site about priorities, about the needs of individual units of local self-government and, of course, in a partner relationship that, in a given time, at least a priority, dangerous railway crossings will be arranged and the dangers of citizens, by drivers, will be minimised. I think that in this segment of thinking about security along with all these European components that are important to us in any case should be guided by this elemental basic component of citizens' interest and us who run local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17230	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right. My dear colleague here has led me to some other findings. It is indisputable that the large and largest number of major and smaller cities and municipalities are in a situation of intense development. In view of this intense development, it is indisputable that the biggest problem is precisely road infrastructure but directly related to this and rail because it is still in a number of cities as well as in my Zapresić, almost through the city centre passes the railway line with rail crossings and brushes or not, which suggests a new form of communication both in the time ahead of us in a high-quality and faster way to break it. And right through this kind of talker, and knowing as well as his colleague Brnadic said that there are over 13,000 employees in the railways today. We know that the railroad is still an insufficiently flexible system and precisely local units lately and... One of these is making an extraordinary effort to make a new step in solving these problems together with HZ, and here with the newly established agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one more thing I think I share the opinion of most colleagues sitting here today in this parliamentary representative as chiefs or mayors, and if they do not sit in these parliamentary benches that they are ready and able and with part of co-financing from their own budget as partners in such problems and addressing traffic infrastructure to give their contribution, so here I am finishing and just giving an emphasis on this partnership of local self-government and institutions to improve and solve all traffic-related problems and in this case the rail infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17232	Next replica of Mrs. Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is when a fellow Turk spoke in his debate on security at the crossings today we are friends surely faced with many accidents that occur at these spring crossings. Well, that's how I have to say it, too, and it's an opportunity for me to say from this pay phone I come from the 4th Bezovica, which has four crossing points. We're witnessing almost every year to make an accident happen. Most of that accident is with severe consequences, with consequences of death. So recently, two years ago, we had a serious accident at a spring crossing in the Demerje settlement. Here I would also thank the Croatian railways here and in this replica for when they were, when the analysis of these difficult consequences came to work to make safety at that transition. That the project documentation for the production of a transitional mustache has been made possible. Just by setting up this security agency we will certainly have absolutely at these critical points of transition more security and better organised transitions. Therefore, my colleague Turk, I fully support you in your debate just as you said that your Zapresic too has many of these spring crossings and I support the absolute establishment of the Railway Safety Agency. We will certainly have greater security both as citizens and as a whole people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17234	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17235	Thank you, Madam Representative. I'm going to mention something else here, how much traffic is really about the subject, especially the railway. I have no doubt that all of us who in certain bodies of local and self-government have come into a situation to fight, and related to the protected corridors of Croatian railways that I support. But in a large number of cases, there is a situation that these corridors are tens of years old and tens of years old, which puts them in the context of a time and space that is not adequate today, and yet I am speaking out of an operational approach because I had such a problem in my city that I needed part of a working compromise, and in accordance with the law, in order to be in a certain space with the transport infrastructure as the railways broke through and the roads, and in accordance with the law, we came to a solution. But I'm still talking about flexibility. And one more thing. We know that one of the developed European railways has Austria with a large number of hill and ine railways. These corridors often have in their strategic considerations some new directions for which we need to examine whether they will ever be or will not be, and for good part they are an obstacle to some other tasks and other development opportunities, so they cut some places, cities and villages and their strategies. But it is really questionable whether such a development will take place in some period of time. And here I see a new role of the agency that, as an independent body, will be able to give its impartial court. Because the fact that HH also works by cheering for himself and his corridors that are needed, that is, for future development. But they must be in line with all the overall needs of all transport and overall development in this Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17236	And the third replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Turk talking about security and the agency is convinced that the agency will take care of it in transitions. However, I would like to stress a little that the agency will normally take care of passengers, as all safety comes down to passengers. As for passengers and travel to the city of Zagreb, let's say I'm talking about a suburban railway that needs special attention, she needs to think carefully about how to improve rail, suburban traffic. Because here, a fellow Turkish mayor, Zapresic, is happy because finally part of the employees, and expects a significantly higher number of employees in Zapresic next year, has a railway, access. Here, and this area where I come from, therefore awaits the railway Subsident – St. Sunday – Samobor. Because I can tell you, here today the column not only towards Zagreb was huge, but according to the kilometre column was also on its way down from the highway. So it would be good to introduce as many suburban trains as possible. It doesn't matter the subway. I think Zagreb has a well-expanded network of railways to reduce the pressure on the city. Because I think it can and can at relatively small costs finally and this is a short track. Here Samobor has over 40,000 inhabitants, 42000 residents, St. Sunday, 20,000. It is 60 and a few thousand inhabitants, and from that large part goes towards the city of Zagreb and I think they create often unnecessary crowds which the railway can very much compensate for.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17238	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17239	Thank you, Mr. Markovanovic. You have touched another new topic here which is also directly related to suburban rail transport as a solution to the problem of a large part of the people and inhabitants of both the capital and suburban settlements in their settlement, primarily going to work and work. But that's what we contribute to. We are all witnesses, and today we are already an extremely large traffic jam in the city of Zapresic through its overall economic intellectuality. In this way, just through quality built, quality planned suburban transport we who are daily on the relations of the city of Zagreb and the suburban settlements. So that's where I consider that period, or that mileage to about 50 miles or so, we're creating an empty space to make that daily migration traffic jam of ours with cars and to cut it down. And we know that despite the high price of oil and transport costs, it is very often that we travel only one in the car, thus creating a new assumption of quality traffic development. But one more thing. Thus, in this way, the creation of suburban, rail transport in a significantly quality form we create something else, we create a new, further prerequisite for the development of suburban settlements and cities through the daily transport of the population, but also through that other segment of cargo transport of a large part of goods and services. Today, there are already two large logistics centres in the town of Prišić, which are now linked to the logistics of the transport of cars and thus the possibilities of other goods, thus contributing to the further overall economic development of the entire country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17240	At 10.44, it was time to apply for the debate for 10 minutes on this agenda point. Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17241	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. The European Railway Agency was established in April 2004 by Parliament and the Council of the European Union, and began its work on 16 June 2005. The main task of the European Railway Agency is to establish common technical and working rules that will coordinate the work of all national railways within the European Union. The foundations of harmonisation were therefore established by a project called "The System of European Railway Management", which aims to make rail transport safer and more competitive. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have today at the Parliament of the Proposed Law on the Railway Safety Agency. The Republic of Croatia plays a significant role in the functioning of European transport flows as a transport integral part of Europe, which certainly sets out its development needs in the area of rail transport, as well as its strategic goal of linking with the European environment and of equal integration in European integration. This law should create a legal framework for the work of the Agency which should ensure better supervision of the rail safety management system and effective regulation of transport and allow equal non-discriminatory access to all market participants. The inclusion of Croatian railways in the European Union's rail network can be achieved in two areas. Normatively, through the creation of legal and normative conditions for the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union, while respecting the conditions of the European Union, equating the conditions of business on the European Union railways. In the technical area covering infrastructure, means of transport and the organisation of transport. The objectives resulting from those Directives of the European Union, which are imposed as priority requirements, relate primarily to the modernisation and restructuring of rail infrastructure, the separation of rail infrastructure management and transport services, the guarantee of free access to rail infrastructure, etc. The process of modernising the restructuring and liberalisation of the Croatian Railways was initiated by the adoption of the Law on Railways, which created the basic preconditions for further continuation of this process through the establishment of a new regulatory framework for railway safety through the adoption of the Railway Safety Act in accordance with European Union regulations. Further amendment to European Community legislation to establish a single market for rail transport services and a common regulatory framework for rail safety imposed the need for further rapid adaptation of domestic legislation in the area of security and interoperability, as well as the adoption of regulatory standards that each country must meet on the European corridor network in order to achieve the European Union's interest in opening traffic routes and to ensure a high level of rail safety and equal, transparent and non-discriminatory conditions for all rail market participants. As part of the new railway safety regulatory framework, the establishment of an independent body that will be responsible for safety, which is the railway safety agency, is also foreseen for the purpose and objective of the adopted Railway Safety Act. The Agency's basic tasks will be to regulate, manage and monitor the rail safety system and to establish and monitor the operation of the system by infrastructure managers, railway undertakings and legal persons carrying out transport for their own purposes. This bill regulates the delirquency and structure of the Railway Safety Agency as an independent and independent public institution with public authority. Its work and activity, way of managing the Agency, material rights and other rights and responsibilities of members of the Governing Council, competence in the exercise of supervision of the Agency's work, the adoption of the statutes of the Agency by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Governing Council and other issues relevant to the functioning of the Agency as an independent and expert body. This law will create a legal framework to enable the achievement of the functions of an independent railway safety authority with a view to better monitoring of the safety management system of railway undertakings, to provide non-discriminatory equal access to all participants in the rail market under equal conditions and to ensure the professional and efficient operation of the regulation, management and supervision of rail safety systems as a whole, and to carry out operations with public authority, the organisation of the Agency as security authorities. This law will create institutional and functional assumptions for the harmonisation and harmonisation of the organisational and technical structure of rail safety in the Republic of Croatia with secondary legal regulations of the European Union, which regulate the area of security. To implement this law, it is necessary, as we have heard, to secure funds in the state budget of 2 million and 600 thousand kuna as funds for the start of the Agency's work. The founding rights of the agency on behalf of the founders of the Republic of Croatia shall be exercised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who shall be responsible for his work and for the Agency. For all these reasons, I will support this proposal for a law on the Railway Safety Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17242	Thank you. A few replicas. First, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17243	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here I feel the need to replicate to an esteemed colleague, Vrdoljak, who I absolutely agree with about today's bill of law that we are discussing. But I say, I feel the need to complete a part of the topic already started here, which refers to suburban transport. Namely, here is a very nice and constructive colleague of Turks touched the suburban settlements which are situated on the City of Zagreb, Zaprešić and its surroundings. I would like to touch this part of where my colleague Vrdoljak and I come from, which is the Dalmatian hinterland, i.e. the connection of our settlements with centres such as Zadar, Split, Sibenik and similar areas. And perhaps most of all, in context, I was offered something that I read in the press these days, so it touched me a little bit because I was directly hit down in areas like this. Therefore, the transporters, which carry the children on buses and, therefore, the people of the suburban settlements, are threatening to give up this transport probably because of the non-regulating of certain prices, etc., which are related to this, so perhaps it would be good to suggest that by a five-year plan, in terms of modernisation this topic extends to the region of the Dalmatian hinterland. We already have concrete examples in the relations of Ploče-Metković, Split-Kaštela, Zadar-Benkovac, Šibenik-Drniš-Knin, etc., and these are areas from which we come colleague Vrdoljak, you and I, so here in this context, so one part of this part may not be the time today, but I hold that it would be good to discuss and suggest that this too.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17244	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17245	Well, I thank my colleague Matkovic for the replica, and he said well that we come from such areas where the railway has a very large role, but unfortunately little is used in terms of passenger transport. Of course, considering the modern railway in other European Union countries where the transport of passengers by rail is taken up to about 100 km from the city center, it would be desirable, of course, that our railways also use that part and that, of course, people who are in such cities are increasingly using the railway as transport, because of course, there will be fast trains and everything, perhaps faster to reach their destination than other means of transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17246	Second replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17247	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the reason for the replica is often the mention of colleagues from Vrdoljak, Croatia's interest in Europe and, of course, in Croatia in this area of development and security and development of organised rail transport in our country. In order to obtain funds in pre-accession funds from the European Union and for this segment of the development of the Republic of Croatia, the importance of rail transport and investment in the territory of the Croatian Railways is proof that the pan-European corridor of Vinkovci-Tovarnik has already received grants from the pre-accession ISPA fund. This interest of Europe, which we are talking about, of course, for Europe in the development of the railways, opens up the possibility of still running for investment, projects in the pre-accession and future of the European Union's access funds, of course in a partner relationship with both the state and the Croatian Railways and the local communities, and I am sure that those billions of kunas are planned to ensure that the total of 18 billion kuna investments are provided from pre-accession funds that this amount will be far greater in the future. It is precisely because of this several times the emphasis of Europe on Croatian railways and of course Croatia for the inclusion in European corridors, the modernisation of railway lines, investments primarily with the safety of rail transport and equipment here in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is why it is real and realistic to expect far greater amounts if we prepare well, if the projects are at the level this has been run in the ISPA programme that it will be possible to participate in pre-accession and access funds with far greater resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17248	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17249	Of course, I agree with my colleague and that the Croatian Government is taking care of the railway infrastructure show the current investment in infrastructure capacity, which changes the system at an old river track of 500 million kuna, then 10 corridors where 75 million euros were withdrawn from ISPA pre-accession fund, then 5C corridor worth 750 million kuna and the conclusion of a figure line of 190 million kuna. So the Croatian government takes great care of the infrastructure capacities of the railway and naturally invests in the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17250	Third replica, Ms. Zastica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is colleague Vrdoljak, I agree with your debate, but I would like to point out and add to your debate, which is precisely by introducing a suburban railway transport, will certainly resolve the huge collapse of the approach to the City of Zagreb. We are today faced with an absolutely large collapse in the City of Zagreb traffic. I come from the southern part of the town of Zagreb, namely the rotor, so Savska and towards St. Mark. Sometimes I travel for an hour. It will certainly come through the introduction of this suburban rail transport discharge, because so far we see and witness that the City of Zagreb has absolutely done nothing about transport infrastructure. I am looking forward to sure that this will help Croatian railways, and I am sure that there will also be economic growth in these suburban and surrounding cities of the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17252	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17253	Of course I agree with my colleague Šolić, but the problem of Zagreb is not only suburban settlements in railway transport but I would also say in road transport. Like other major cities, we're just going to take an example of the town of Munich where there's a combination of U-Bahn and S-Bahn. Therefore, it is not only necessary to crash on rail traffic but it is, of course, connected both road and rail transport and should, as I said before, use the railway as much as possible in the suburban transports, because I say sometimes faster than other means of transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17254	Thank you. Next replica, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17255	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's everyone, of course, welcomes the establishment of the agency and it's said, the fundamental goal is to make safe and more competitive rail transport, but of course, even more important is the matter, better control and effective regulation of transport. Of course, in this area of surveillance is the most important spring crossings, and it is unacceptable that more than 20 deaths and deaths are at those crossings, that a large number of injured people are also costing a health care system unnecessary to speak. But on me on the replica, it associates the moment exactly of the spring crossings where the wrinkles are placed. It exists in many environments, each of them has an example of where it is regulated, where they are set up, and there is no regulation of efficient traffic. We have international railways, international trains that, of course, need to be trafficked quickly in that part, but of course there are roadblocks in local traffic, and there I am associated with the thinking of colleagues in Huška that everyone in their midst has such an example. Here is also from my county, specifically in the town of Križevci one is such a significant railway crossing, which should certainly have Croatian roads in that part to think about and all subjects remain from local self-government that could perhaps engage along with Croatian railways the necessary means to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17256	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17257	Well, thank you, colleagues. Of course, that is why the Railway Safety Agency is set up to remove all these irregularities and to minimise accidents at our crossing points. Of course, it is also important here to illustrate that 640 semi-defines were damaged in 2006 alone, which means that the railways were crossing during the period when the semi-defines were coming down or already down. There must therefore be one awareness of the whole social community about it, and this agency, of course, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia established, will help us to correct and be as secure as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17258	Next replica. Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17259	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I would like to say that the safety of rail transport certainly depends on these railway crossings that are certainly not all regulated. So the most fatalities are caused by rail traffic on those roads where road crossings across the railway line cross where they are not marked by any semi-defines, bumpers, but only by signs. The marked signs of traffic take place in such a way that people, often with their carelessness and guilt, suffer at these crossings and local self-government, as in the County of Virovitica-Podravska, decided to multiply funds with the County Road Administration in order to ensure new road crossing technology. And so, in this year alone, five new semi-defensors with light signals were placed at the crossings and five contracts concluded for the next road crossings to make road traffic safety in our county as high as possible. It means that you can and needs as much joint investment, resources as possible, with the modernisation of the railway line, as well as anything that seems to make rail transport as safe as possible. It is necessary to continue to invest and protect railway crossings so as not to suffer and lose lives and on them. Security certainly depends on the good part of these very railway crossings, which are only marked with signs, and do not have defenders and semi-defines. And I also welcome this establishment of an agency that will certainly contribute to some new opportunities and speeds of rail safety management.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17260	Replication response. Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17261	Well, he would partly agree with his colleague Djakic because it often happens and that at those railway road crossings where there are devices, traffic accidents happen exactly as I said, because of the unconscious behaviour of road traffic participants. And in order to arrange a railway, road crossing with its signalling somewhere it is necessary to invest about 300 thousand euros and of course the railway and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are trying to invest as much as possible in the segment. But I would continue to appeal to all traffickers to adhere to the signals and not to cross the train road crossings if the ramp is down or if it is in the descent phase. Therefore, all transport participants must respect traffic signalling and thus reduce the number of accidents that occur at our railway road crossings.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17262	And the next replica. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17263	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Vrdoljak pointed out the importance and importance of this proposal for a Law on the Railway Safety Agency and, more or less, no one contests it, but he also touched on the needs of the development of railway transport and this also encouraged me to report for this replica. I mean, there's a lot of talk about how we should have fast, low-level, flat-rate, and I don't know which stripes. I absolutely support it because it speeds up and fucks up transportation. However, someone mentioned, and I would strengthen this, the need for rail suburban transport to develop as well. I was present at one presentation in Split on suburban rail transport from Trogir to Omis. It's one big conglomeration, it's about 400,000 inhabitants, it's almost half of Zagreb. And we are now investing and building a bypass, a road crossing from Omis to Trogir, and we are investing big money, but a large part of that bypass is actually going to be city streets, because there are so many settlements and houses around them so that everywhere and we are not going to get rid of the best traffic jams. That is why I would really support it if it were not to give up that solution, to continue to consider and see in the foreseeable future, and to elaborate further on the integration of suburban railway transport from Trogir to Omis, which I say I have seen in my own time certain presentations. This is where the city of Zagreb is proved in railway suburban transport with its surroundings, the least crowded it is most needed. And as much as we're building new roads, more and more new cars are coming in, which is fine, but we need to find solutions for as little traffic as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17264	Replication response. Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17265	I thank Mr. Nenadic for the replica. Of course, we've already talked about the use of suburban transport via rail transport, but many European metropolis introduce so-called. ecological rentals and thus force people to reach the centre, Plata amounts to about 30 euros. Well, it might be good to think in that direction if we too were to encourage as much and as much of the use of rail transport in suburban settlements as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17266	And Madam Representative Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17267	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I would just like to take a short look at the exposure of colleagues I fully support, but I think when we talk about the establishment of the Railway Safety Agency, it is also very important to mention people with disabilities. In doing so, I would like to commend Croatian railways that have adapted several passenger cars for the transport of disabled persons. This I also expect from this agency that she will be a partner with roof organizations of persons with disabilities who will, as part of their large gathering, be held every year called... who also speak to Croatian railways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe they will call on an agency that will be very happy to respond, and in order to improve the quality of transport of persons with disabilities and their safety together, and that is only possible if rail transport is accessible to persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17268	Replication response. Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17269	I thank my colleague Lukacic. I would also point out here that people with disabilities should be a constant concern for the entire social community, so of course we are talking about the railway and railway safety agency here and I am convinced that this problem will also be taken into account when the agency comes to life and when it starts with its work and that it will find the best solution for both of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17270	Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17271	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. In the process of joining the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adapt its legislation to the acquis of the European Union. According to the 2004 Directive on the safety of railways, each Member State is obliged to establish a safety authority whose task is to regulate and monitor rail safety. This body must be independent of railway undertakings, infrastructure managers, applicants for authorisation and authorities relevant for supply. The proposal for a Law on the Railway Safety Agency is established by the Railway Safety Agency as an independent and independent public institution. The objective of the European Union is to create a single rail system. Since each Member State must establish its national safety authority and ensure their cooperation at European Union level, all national safety authorities must have the same tasks and responsibilities. The Directive lays down minimum tasks to be entrusted to the national safety authority. The Agency is therefore in charge of issuing, extending, changing and abolishing a solution on the safety of railway undertakings, infrastructure manager and legal persons carrying out transport for their own needs. The Agency shall continue to issue an authorisation for the operation of the structural subsystems of the railway system, the supervisions of the components of the structural system, the subsystem in accordance with the basic requirements, the authorisation of the test shares, the authorisation of the use of railway vehicles, the issue of a licence for the management of railway vehicles, the validity of the registration of the rolling stock. The Agency shall also keep a register of railway vehicles. The Agency shall also participate in the development of a regulatory framework in such a way as to participate in the development of the proposal for sublegal regulations necessary for the implementation of the safe course of transport. The Agency shall monitor the security management system of the infrastructure managers of railway undertakings and legal persons who carry out and transport for their own purposes. The Agency shall report in its business to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and shall submit the work report to the European Railway Agency after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. The proposal for a Law on the Railway Safety Agency addresses some issues that have not been regulated by domestic legislation so far. It is thus determined that the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings are obliged to establish a security management system. The existence of a security management system shall be demonstrated by the infrastructure managers and the railway undertaking by a security solution. The authority to issue a security solution has been transferred from the ministry to the Agency by a proposal for this law, which is consistent with the acquis of the European Union. As the tendency for security solutions to be issued in one Member State is recognised, it is important for other Member States to ensure mutual cooperation between the safety authorities. As one of the minimum essential tasks of the Agency, the issue and approval for use of railway vehicles have been prescribed, the Agency shall issue approval and occasional approvals for the use of the prototypes of railway vehicles and the authorisation for the use of serial or individual railway vehicles imported or leased from abroad. Given that today my predecessors had in the debates it was most often a subject of railway safety, it was also said here today that railways very little or almost as we heard nothing invested in new investments, and since they are fully financed from the state budget, I would say it is not true, if we know that in 2006 for new investments there were 886 million, 2007. 680, and the plan for 2008 is 900 million kuna. Of course, rail transport has a very important role in our society, and with the development of the economy and our society as a whole, it is certain that rail transport, as in other parts and other countries of the European Union, will gain one great importance. We are now seeing how much of these improvements on the railway if you want to in the northern part of where I come from, then on the railway towards Rijeka, according to Split, which is very important for our ports, because I believe that the state of Croatia will in time do everything to ensure that the Rijeka port and the Ploče River are important and important ports for Central Europe. Of course, our construction infrastructure that has now been concentrated by the wave of highway and road construction and we know that Croatia has made one of the biggest shifts in Europe over the last 8 years with this plan, the national plan and the strategy for the development of rail transport that we have adopted, that it allows me to have one remark that today may have been too little, as my predecessor Huška said, and the funds from European funds, I think that in the coming period there would also be a big and a lot of work for the construction operation in that part. Also with the development of entrepreneurship zones that we know have become the main backbone of the development of entrepreneurship and economy in the Republic of Croatia, it is very important to design together with local self-government and railways and local self-government and regional administration, to make projects, to make these zones fully connected wherever possible in the Republic of Croatia, to be connected to the rail system. For what? Today we have examples in the countries of the European Union, mostly Austria, I am often up and I see that they and this road traffic, in large part, these big trucks, freight trucks and helmets are transported through Austria, and their terrain configuration in Austria Croatia is certainly not the same and the railway there has a very large and important factor in their economy. So, both those tow trucks and trucks are being transported by rail, which certainly contributes a lot to cost reduction and on the other hand is a big thing for ecology. So, for all of what I've been saying today, I think that rail transport has a very important future in the Republic of Croatia, and just in time to adopt these development programmes that we will know, therefore, that our government will know in time to use these great resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17272	We have a few replicas. Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17273	I know it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but I'm going to use this replica, it's really sad to look, and I'm going to listen and see that most in the Parliament, this right-hand side is afraid to discuss the next item that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17274	No, please, Mr. Representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17275	And that's the report...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17276	Mr. Representative! Please, it's not a replica! Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17277	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague... Listen carefully, listening carefully to the gentleman's exposure, can I, Mr. President? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Carefully listening to the gentleman's exposure... I have to react further in a way that when we talk about this agency but especially about rail and railways as a whole, and not doubting that I share the opinion of the largest number of our representatives, regardless of whether they sit on the left or on the right of the pay phone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is the best way to say it is a very comprehensive, high-quality, even surprising good debate at yesterday's afternoon session when we came to a common conclusion on the Medvednica, in a way that cares about environmentals, and environmentals is an important segment of the work and life of all our citizens and members of this Parliament. Respecting and passing on this quality debate from yesterday's session, I can comment that in the framework of the railway development we did not honestly say that the development of electroleas and electrologouss that significantly reduce environmental pollution is something that this government and the railway government gave priority to, and so we, through strategic development plans over the next four to five years, where we have a good share of these railways precisely in this way, in order to have a better, better transport with a lower price on the one hand, and on the other hand, by showing an additional environmental awareness of all of us sitting in this Assembly, thereby sharing the opinion of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17278	The answer to the replica, Mr. Representative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17279	I thank my fellow Turk, I was just talking about it in my debate and if we achieve some of those standards that are now in force in ours, we are not neighbouring, close to the European Union, Austria, we will do a lot for environmental science in our area, so I say what was said yesterday in a small segment of the Medvednica that it will be then and throughout our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17280	Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikić next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here I would like to replicate the honourable representative... It's essentially up-to-date, said that this is one of the European laws that we're all making and we've all been across Europe, so we've seen what suburban well-delivered traffic means, mostly rail traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since I come from Karlovac, a city that is the traffic hub of the Republic of Croatia, which is the sixth largest city in the Republic of Croatia, it is very important that it connects with the City of Zagreb, while we work with good connection to the decentralisation of Croatia what we all advocate in this assembly. I am therefore surprised by my colleagues from the SDP, that they are not interested in rail transport, that they are not interested in the development of Croatia as a whole. I will tell you, you said in your speech that they invest very much in the development of the Croatian railway, there is a railway station, a passenger station in the city centre and in the strategy, not in the strategy but in the project and there is a two-way line to Zagreb and the citizens of the city of Karlovac will be in the square of King Tomislav in the centre of Zagreb in two years, so 2000 cars will come to Zagreb less. Our students will have no need to pay tenants' rooms for several hundred euros, our workers will come to work faster and simpler, and I think these are the topics to be discussed by this House in order to ensure that respected colleagues take care of it rather than politics. And therefore, the citizens of Karlovac know what they are getting with the fast track and the connection with Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17282	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17283	Here I would agree with my colleague Strikic, I will just say that the recent introduction of the train Čakovec-Varaždin-Koprivnica-Zagreb, students from Varazdin traveled for an hour. Imagine that we arrange what Mrs. Šolić said before me that this is suburban, and then suburban traffic extends and stands more miles from Zagreb. It would certainly be a huge discharge of the city of Zagreb and three-quarters of parliamentary representatives who live and live in Zagreb today would surely travel to their homes every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17284	Next replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to the replication of fellow Mihalic more encouraged me by our conversation here in the bench and replica of Mrs. Lukacic. When we talk about special categories and groups of our citizens, in this case disabled people, I would touch one category and these are our youngest citizens, they are children. And this morning when I went to work here in my town in Pakrac at a crossroads, on traffic lights, on zebras, in front of primary school, there are traffic police from primary school, traffic police trained and trained to regulate traffic, of course, along with large adult police officers where children learn about behavior, in this case mostly on road traffic. Because today children are pedestrians mostly, today children are bicycle drivers, and tomorrow children will be motorcycle drivers, car drivers. I am sure that this agency will provide an additional education to our children, our youngest, youngest citizens in this area of traffic behavior, in rail transport. During the crossing of the spring crossings as pedestrians, behavior as a cyclist at the railway crossings and the children remain, the children remember well and will surely remember these basics for the future when they are motorists, motorcycles and cars. Well, here's a suggestion that according to this youngest category of primary school students, it works well on the road that one such education is also going towards rail behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17286	Reply to the replica Mr. Agent Angelko Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17287	I thank Mr. Huski. I personally think it is very good to run one of these impartial agencies and that there will certainly be more order after that and in this field than Mr. Huška has now said. There was a lot of talk about traffic security long before I did. I am a witness at least in the northwestern part of Croatia that, the railways that have done much in particular in cooperation with local self-government units but in any case still insufficient and especially for this category, including children and students where they will need to pay even more attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17288	Next replica of Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I really think it's equally important to discuss ecology, traffic safety and rail transport. I'll tell you why. I come from a city where the railway line arrived in 1862. First line of the Wallen Bridge Sisak. Sisak thus became an important hub for both road and river transport and rail transport. We've been traveling this railroad for years and only now is it experiencing its complete reconstruction. That is, I am all in favour of what my colleague Mihalic said that we are equally concerned about the local almost suburban railways. Croatian railways will invest around 170 million kunas in the reconstruction of this railway. Here I am fortunately able to confirm that the last stage of this railroad is being reconstructed and that it will indeed become secure. In this regard, the reconstruction is also experienced by one of the oldest railway stations, which is the Sisak station in which 19 and a half million kuna will be invested. Here's only 3 and a half million kuna this year, and all for the safety of passengers right now, because low-floor trains will be possible to drive right on that track. Up until now, these trains couldn't get into the city of Sisak because the platform wasn't adjusted. And there's something else I have to say. Speaking about how much the local community invests together and together with Croatian railways is trying to ensure that the great safety of passengers can say something else to continue the problem of Sisak city in another station, the newer station in the suburban settlement or in the part of Sisak-Caprag, it is about one famous pasararel, so a spring pass which is the cancer of that station next year will experience a complete reconstruction. Just how important it is to invest in these railways and how important it is to establish an agency that will take care of all these adjustments and train safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17290	Reply to the replica Mr. Agent Angelko Mihelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17291	I'd just like to tell Mrs. Roxandic these problems are not present. They are much bigger in Sisak than in other cities. Believe me, in other cities these problems are present, and since Croatia is a tourist country and we know that we want to be a tourist country, and in this direction, believe me that it is safe and especially after the adoption of the National Railway Development Programme, it will not take long for us to adopt these standards from the European Union, and that on our borders trucks will be loaded on the railway track. It should be imperative, on railway cars, it should be imperative for all of us and especially for the people who run this policy in the railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17292	Next replica of Mrs. Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17293	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, here I would like to take a debate from my colleague Mihalic and I would like to say the importance of the adoption and what the National Infrastructure Programme for the period 2000 to 2012. In fact, the relevant segment of the national programme would say here and what is important to hear and that is that it is covered by this national programme, counterpart Mihalić, a thousand 32 transitions that will be implemented within 15 years. And their estimated value of the entire program is 886,5 million kuna. It is therefore very important in what I said about these transitions that they are insecure. And it's also important to say what's in relation to the previous five-year period and the intensity of the resolution will be to say couple, solve and what it brings us. The total number of rail road traffic will be reduced by 2.24 times. The number of railway road traffic will be reduced only by 2.64 times. The number of rail-road transports secured by devices will increase by 3.35 times. Gentlemen of the SDP, you are absolutely not interested in the development of railways. Same as [[Don't talk to me.]] But it's important to say... [[Subject: MPs replica]] They shut me out. [[/Intruder: There you are, here you are.]] He won't hear the truth. You're not interested in the development of railways. But it has to, just like Bezovica, the development of Bezovica. [[Intruder: Mrs. Šolić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17294	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Mr. Agent Angelko Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17295	Thank you very much. I think that this national programme is, and we've already talked about the figures on one side today, and we've talked about it for security reasons, and what makes it important is that it's just as important for the fact that our domestic construction operation has to be adjusted in the next period and in a way that it will be able to do all those jobs that will need to be done in the construction or reconstruction of existing or construction of new rail routes. It is of crucial importance once again that my opinion, of the crucial importance for the development of Croatia, will also be the development of rail transport in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17296	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić next, last.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17297	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleague rightly argued that there are those in this assembly who want to challenge investment in the development of the railway system in Croatia and he well noticed that they actually want to hide the truths and facts about these investments. In fact, it's almost unreasonable for someone who sits in this assembly, who gets a budget in front of him, to say, in that regard, false types that nothing has been invested in the past. In 2006 and 2007, over a billion and 500 million kuna were invested in the railway system. So a billion and five hundred million kuna is nothing for some MPs in this House. If it's nothing, then I really don't know what we're talking about. I rephrase to my colleague, Mihalic, who rightly claimed that individuals in this House's debate were false and said that nothing had been invested. He's really right about that. It is forever an attempt to place such thesis in public to degrade the work of the Croatian government. The colleague also claimed that there is a great chance that a certain type of traffic such as transport transport is primarily heavy trucks to switch to rail transport and not only is this a chance for Croatia, but it is something Croatia has already joined, and there is a project Marko Polo, which just a few days ago Croatia has joined which we will certainly use for the development of rail transport because we will also be subsidized from this European Community project. We therefore see the opportunity and development for Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17298	And a reply to the replica Mr. Representative Angelko Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17299	I'd agree with my colleague, but I'd say one more time. What has been the construction of highways for our economy for the past 8 years and the roads will certainly be in the next 7 to 10 construction of railways. I once again say from this pay phone I am a construction worker and I know that we have to work on building firms, and since our construction is here today, as we are today after these constructions in Croatia highways today, our companies are performing and appearing in competitions both in neighbouring countries and in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in other countries where we made a good trade. After that, I hope that the same case will be with the construction of railways and railway infrastructures.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17300	State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Branimir Jerneic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17301	Thank you. I'm going to go back to the beginning of our debate at the club fair here for this pay phone, so I'm going to try to give answers to a few questions that have been asked here. But also to clarify, crystallize, and to correct certain things that are said here. A lot of debates today took place on the National Railway Infrastructure Programme adopted by this distinguished House in early March of this year. It is a continuation of the document of the Transport Development Strategy, which was also adopted in this House in 1999. It is often accompanied by epithets as good or bad. I must say that this is the operational financial plan for building railway infrastructure exactly as prescribed by the European Union legislation, and it is certainly not a wish list as it has been said here several times. It clearly sets a strategic goal, speeds up construction dynamics in railway infrastructure and sets new goals in safety and quality of rail transport. It is incorrect to talk here about the dynamics of building 20 km of new railways annually and 60 km of reconstruction and reconstructions of existing ones. We're talking about far larger numbers. Those amounts are double. We're talking about 50km of newly built railways and 80km of remonts a year. This is what adopted this esteemed House, which is precisely on HZ infrastructure as a manager of infrastructure that manages and public goods in general, that in the next 5 years it realizes everything in order to achieve greater quality of passenger transport, greater quality of freight transport, but also safety of passengers and goods. It was also said through this document that it was not clearly stated what the strategic objective was, and there was a sign that it was necessary to set a strategic goal for 50 million passengers transported in 2012. I'll say we're not happy with that. We achieved a 25% greater effect last year. According to passenger transport, after a 36 per cent increase in the number of passengers transported in 2007, 63 million passengers were transported. So I don't think anyone here has connected the space and time we're talking about in the National Railway Structure Programme. Our goals in this program are far greater. As far as freight transport is concerned, often the thesis that revenues in railway freight transport are falling. Freight transport in the railway is directed in a way that HZ Cargo as a national railway operator becomes a leader in the region. Today, it achieves all predispositions in this direction in a way that already today the HZ cargo in the total transport of goods in Croatia has an effect of approximately 9% which is above the average of European rail freight carriers. So this company is also directed in another direction. I wouldn't talk much about liberalising the rail market. It has been in force since 2003 when the Law on Railways was passed. The law also opened access to other railway operators on the service market in the Republic of Croatia. What we are facing today is the accelerated modernisation of rail carriers, but also the adaptation of infrastructure for future needs. The deep debate on the railway that was being conducted, I would only like to correct it as perhaps an incorrect quote throughout the Croatian Railways system in which HZ Holding plus four companies that are legal followers of Croatian Railways and more than 15 dependent companies operate. There are no 400 and some managerial contracts. Management contracts have only been awarded to company administrations and there are 10 of them in basic HH. In the part of the safety of rail transport under consideration, it is also important to note another fact, which is an accelerated investment at railway and road crossings. But also some statistical numbers that refer to us call them extraordinary events or accidents at train-to-road crossings. There are about 1,500 railway crossings in Croatia. We aim at the National Railway Infrastructure Programme, and in which this agency will have a large function on the safety of rail transport, which will approve the use of individual devices, as well as devices that provide train-road crossings on the railway network, an estimated one number of several hundred rail-road crossings has been abolished. This will also reduce the number of road crossings and railway lines and the possibility of an accident. However, what worries about Croatian statistics is over 600 attacks of personal vehicles on downhills at rail-road crossings, which causes major material damage and also more than 45% of traffic users suffer precisely at train-to-road crossings that are secured by light, sound and bumper, and somewhere around 48% of the total deaths in these accidents are happening at these crossings. So, the basic thing, and this should also be the goal of the Railway Safety Agency, but also of all the actors involved in rail transport, is to raise the level of awareness of all traffic participants that just when we encounter train-road crossings, regardless of whether it is secured by an Andrija cross or some technical means, we pay extra attention. Black statistics are also such that about 13 people die annually at train-to-road crossings. Generally, I would also like to say about the Railway Safety Agency that this is an independent, independent institution dealing with the administrative segment of rail safety in terms of issuing a solution, clear regulation of minimum safety standards for rail transport, and all in order to improve the rail safety management system in the future. This agency will also become and join the work of the European Railway Safety Agency after its establishment and establishment, i.e. The European Railway Agency and we expect it to get even better results in this segment. Here, in that first part of the address so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17302	Thank you. Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17303	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. I believe that all the MPs who come from Brod-Posavina County will agree we counted quickly, I counted it on us 6 coming from Brod-Posavina County. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Croatian railways, it is a very important segment of the economy of the entire Brod-Posavina County and I can say that within 180 kilometers of Rajic, a significant pan-European corridor of the Brod-Posavina County passes all the way to Strizivojna and Vrpolje. I would also like to add that in Slavonski Brod for a few years will celebrate 90 years of work, exactly 87 years of work of the first factory, then called "Trailcar Factory", today as part of the "Djuro Đaković" maintenance programme, which today is called the special vehicle factory where there is a profession and quality and workforce that not only works on the Croatian Railways mobile capacity programme, but also works on the tank and program of today's fighting vehicle Patria, which the Republic of Croatia has written off. I must thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia when this 500-employee factory was in great difficulty to get a contract of 300 wagons before the deadline and today they end the contract and I think the other contract will be executed and handed over to the Croatian railways before the deadline. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made an effort not to lie about this point, here is paper, I would not like to read it, but I have a complete investment in the infrastructure and mobile infrastructure of the Croatian Railways since 2004 until 2008 and the programme until 2012. I would like to say that this was our freight or passenger wagon coming out of the factory "Djuro Djakovic" that it has passed by the quality of the Croatian Railways framework and that, not that it could, but it is a Croatian product which is interested in both German railways and other railways of the countries of the European Union. Therefore, with some cooperation on a business plan and other factories such as "Gredelj" could successfully operate both companies and work specifically on exports. There are 60 new freight wagons in preparation, and I believe that the horror of it will be done in special vehicles "Djuro Djakovic". The preparations have arranged for the modernisation of 15 passenger cars, today the modernisation of 10 electric locomotives worth 92.5 million kuna, signed a contract for 2 of these preparations for another electric train. Preparation and procurement of 15 new multi-system locomotives of 550 million kuna, etc. I don't want to bother you with those numbers right now. But I also wanted to remind myself of representatives of the Croatian Railways and everyone who cares about this system that in Slavonski Brod a super modern car wash is built tanks worth 67 million kuna and I stress here that it does not work full capacity, that it is open just a year ago and that it could also find its job around, according to me 35 to 38 new employees. Another problem that plagues the Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod, which is the overpass in Osijek Street in Slavonski Brod. Osijek Street is in the categorization of Croatian roads and I think the joint forces of the Croatian railway and Croatian roads should be able to build whether the overpass or underpass. We in Brod-Posavina County ordered a study, the study says that there should be an underpass for reasons of safety and passenger and cars and trucks and pedestrians and all those involved in the traffic and secure the eastern entrance to the town of Slavonski Brod because then there are 5 kilometers and longer columns at the entrance to the city and on the exit from the town of Slavonski Brod. And something very important that we need to be prepared, which is a low floor wagon called RoLa. Two well-respected fellow MPs talked about it, I think it is the future that truck transport that spends on these corridors of large amounts of euro diesel and diesel, and that they would really be on the way into Croatia and in other countries where this pan-European corridor passes, loading on wagons and driving the path of the heart of Europe, thus saving our environment, thus saving on a very expensive energy, which is oil and of course that transport would be the cheapest transport after water transport. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to modernising passenger cars, I stress that this segment can also be done at Djuri Djakovic. And something that came out of this debate, I would take a quick look at it. When it comes to modernising any corridor, I think we have to work parallelly on the security of these crossings through the same and when we work and invest large funds in modernising these rail corridors, make the security crossing over the same, not that we ignore that security segment. And another proposal. In cities like Zagreb and Slavonski Brod and Sisak, which the colleague pointed out, through a section of the city where the railway passes, I think you should provide pedestrian overpasses, and also keep that part of the railroad through the city so that it is in the wire and does not cross anyone who wants and where and where it wants to cross the railway if it is about pedestrians. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also support the proposal for a Law on the Railway Safety Agency in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17304	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17305	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear colleague, you've said a lot about our city and our neighborhood, in something I'd agree with, but what's the core or the essence of the replica, I must say that you've said well that there used to be a Slavonic ship in a rail vehicle factory. However, you well know that Djuro Djakovic produced trams, and you well know where the most modern ship's designs for the most modern tram existed back then. Furthermore, it is not only the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to say co-operation with Djur Djakovic, which is the only one that Patrija has done business with. She did business with Slovenia, too. So Patria also has a contract with Slovenia. So there's no such thing as our great virtue or quality. As far as the car wash is concerned, you know well that last year this most modern car wash, one economic car wash, I would say "Obrovac" of Slavonski Brod spent 100 kuna of water for the past year, not 100 kuna. That's how our train wash works on Slavonski Brod. And the biggest problem you forgot to say, which is that in Slavonski Brod the status of railway hub was unjustly lifted. Now that's what the Brodjans and the Brod-Posavina County hurt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17306	Thank you. Mr. Shime Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17307	I would like to reply to my colleague, dear colleague Boris Grubisic, and that when special vehicles were made, it was a major crisis programme, which was 6-7 years ago, when Croatian Railways' mobile capacities were not invested, that 500 people, 500 jobs, exactly 490 in special vehicles were saved and 490 families had secured the existence, and that the profession had not sat down, that it had contracted new capacities in terms of tank remonts and new capacities in terms of military production of a combat armored vehicle together and had all the essential certificates that this special purpose programme could be carried out in "Đuri Đaković". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17308	Mr. Nedeljko Strikic also replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Sima. In the last debate, we spoke little of what was the role of the railway in passenger transport in connecting suburban settlements and cities, and here Šima touched the railway's role in the development of Croatia's economy. So I'm going to say what it means to be an example of a town, a town of Karlovec from which I come. We know that in the last century, Karlovac was a shopping centre, and it was for the reasons that he had river and rail traffic and now the development of entrepreneurial zones that we had in the Republic of Croatia and the town of Karlovac went to develop an entrepreneurial zone and you know what investors first asked us when they were coming, even though we were well connected with Rijeka and Zagreb, whether this business zone would have a connection with the railway. This is what they first asked, and I would like to express my gratitude to both our mayor and the mayor, but also to the Croatian Railways Project Bureau who had the hearing and our business zone, the business couple Karlovac is connected, will be connected to the railway because it is designed with the railway line, will be connected to Rijeka, meaning to all of Europe. This is what we have to discuss, what we must take into account and partnership of the county, city and state institutions in this case it is the Croatian Railway, when this is synchronised, then it is seen on the ground, people recognize it. And I'm going to tell you that here for almost two years the existence of our entrepreneurial zone, the carlovac business park, it is no longer available at this time, and indeed a large business zone is just part of it thanks to the fact that it will have access to the railroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17310	Thank you. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17311	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's of course that the agency, this agency will improve this important area and we're obliged to make it a safe transport mainly by rail, but we're also bound to preserve the environment. Since we have a very well-preserved environment within European frameworks and so we are obliged to leave it behind for generations and in that part I was encouraged by the replica of this car wash in Slavonski Brod. Of course, this laundry will also contribute to the conservation of the environment, and I would also mention that we have on Botova in Koprivnica-Kristevnik County the rehabilitation of the former laundromat so I don't know how, in what proportion and functioning the existing laundromat in Slavonski Brod if a colleague could explain it in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17312	Answer, Mr. Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17313	In my discussion, I also pointed out, and my colleague Grubisic confirmed that 67 million kuna was invested in this car wash in tanks that could be used to wash trucks, from the budget of the Republic of Croatia and that 67 million kuna was placed inside and released into the test room super modern technology without polluting the water flow and pollution of the environment and air, but that the factory does not work at full capacity. And I also said that to the representatives of the Croatian Railways and the Secretary of State and to all those in charge who care in that segment, that there is a reason why to stand dear God untapped, why not take full capacity and employ up to 38 employees. Citizens of Brod-Posavina County and I personally expect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17314	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17315	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Mr. Djurdjevic is with his theme, so with what we have heard here today about the road crossings which are important and important, I must also stress that the topic and area of work and this workshop, but also others that are located elsewhere in Croatia, as well as with me. I come from the Primorje-Gorski County, where there are two workshops. True, not for production, but also for repairing and repairing what I have to say is very important for traffic safety, so that, after some area as well as in road traffic, repairs are done. I must also point out here that those who think there is no interest in this topic are wrong. I have to tell you, I come from an area where at some point in time the railway was a very important segment of the economy, where most of the inhabitants, because they were built by the railroad, were important. And today when we come here, they ask me so I can claim that someone is certainly following it right now, that a lot of people are interested in living next to that railroad. In particular, especially with me, I am now restoring a section of the railway from Moravica to Rijeka where about 500 million kuna is invested, so a part of the infrastructure is changing, it is working on traffic security. But also, which is a little bit at the time when the new railroad was being talked about, it was a question of what would happen to that railroad, so we're now giving an answer. So, the railway is being restored, so the railway is needed by Croatia, so these are certain jobs. So, the interest in that part exists, and I'm telling you that many of us in that area are now looking at and following what we're going to say so that with what the agency is going to solve. Therefore, it is very important that the colleague mentioned manufacturing workshops, but also for the renovation and refurbishment of railway vehicles, vehicles, railways and lower machinery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17316	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17317	A respected colleague, through history, not only in the Croatian state, but also before, it is also evident that the importance of investment in railway infrastructure in you from where you come from, that in Moravica, I could not now say how many years and there is a secondary railway technical school where personnel are educated for that part of Croatia, through Knin, Split and for the purposes of that part of Croatia. And I haven't pointed out yet that the important hub, which is Strizivojna – Vrpolje, is that it was made to remount everything and the customs crossing all the way to Slavonski Šamca where the railway leads across the Bosnian Šamca, Doboj and all the way to Ploč. And it's also a significant corridor across Djakova, Osijek, all the way to the border of entry into Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17318	Thank you. Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17319	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I was moved by the replica of Mr. Djurdjevic's thinking of new investments in Croatian railways that should, of course, lead to increased security. But I would go back one step to the past, so I might ask my colleagues here if they knew what happened in 23.9.1988, and it's important in the history of Croatian railways in Pakrac. Probably not. The last steam locomotive from the traffic has been withdrawn, and it's right in the city where I come from, in the town of Pacrac. So regarding the project that is announced in the Croatian Railways, steam locomotive as a tourist train that will be launched soon, I hope that just where the historic moment in the Croatian Railways ended that right in the city, meaning in Pakrac, this project of the tourist train steam locomotive in the Croatian Railways as one tourist attraction will take place. Regarding the new investment, it was particularly pleased to see in the Croatian Railways programme in the long term to invest and plan to invest 11 million kunas in the optical cable on the railway, along with the Banov Jaruga-Lipic-Pakrac-Virovica railway line, which will, of course, provide even more quality traffic conditions, bring even greater safety at the railway crossings and, of course, exclude the stories from the beginning of this century which were, that this railroad vertical Viruvica-Daruvr-Pacrac-Banova Jaruga is shutting down and that it disappears from the Croatian Railways system. This is a confirmation that this is not happening, and surely the investment in that optical cable will lead to even greater security on that rail line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17320	Thank you. And the replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17321	My colleague, I have a question for you, and I would like the President of the Parliament to answer that question for me. What does your debate with which I agree in a good way, concerning intermodal transport, on the modernisation of railways, the car wash has to do with the Final Proposal of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency? ... Mr. President, according to our Rules of Procedure, the speaker can only talk about the subject at issue. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] This law does not mention the influence of railways on this or that, towards the development of railways, the importance of intermodal transport or which is a strategy of modernisation. You didn't say a word about the law, so I'm curious because I didn't realize what your discussion had to do with the Law on the Railway Safety Agency, which is just being set up by that agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17322	Answer. Mr. Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17323	Dear colleagues, you have not followed closely what I have said. It is true that when it comes to modernising and producing mobile funds for the Croatian railways, it is up to 4,5 thousand people in my Brod-Posavina County, but that the programme is certainly connected to this agenda point in terms of security. Every kilometer of the renewed railroad and every car that passes that track certainly is the safety of traffic for people, goods and all else. And it's very important that I say about laundry, distinguished colleagues, so isn't it normal and natural that when it comes to laundry that there's big protection, big investment in safety and environmental protection?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17324	We have another replica. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17325	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I don't think it's unusual that the debate on the establishment of this facility, the agency that primarily aims to make rail transport safer and more competitive, is developing and that we all want to transfer from our local backgrounds something good and something bad. In his debate, Đurdjevic mentioned a segment that I also touched in that replica, which is either overpasses or foot soldiers across the track. In Sisak, I must now because I did not arrive in the past replica is pointed out, the biggest problem on Sisak-Sunja track which is very frequent, which is also a railway not only for passenger traffic, but also for freight traffic very important, because it is located primarily in the southern industrial zone, so in one business zone for which railway infrastructure, as my colleague Strikic and colleague Djurđević said, is unusually important and the safety of citizens, pedestrians, students for 3 major schools in the area, and that is why Croatian railways and here I have to thank the Croatian railways, realised that this railway crossing or overpass is so-called. pasarela, popularly called in Sisak in Sisak-Caprag, is very important for the further and road crossing of future roads, as well as the railway crossing and is invested 3.5 million kuna in reconstruction. Now she's currently locked up and it's impossible to go through with her. As important as it is, it also speaks for the fact that the City of Sisak has joined this investment and I hope, frankly, the Secretary-General has supported this project, that next year we will finally walk this pasarrel, has Croatian railways made the main project. So, everything's prepared for this project. I hope fellow Djurdjevic that what you pointed out in your debate about the other overpasses, that this example will also follow in other cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17326	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17327	Because it's very important to secure a good transport across the railroad right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17328	Thank you very much. It's been a while. Thank you very much. Let me, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, agree in principle with Mrs Lugaric's remarks on holding a business obligation to hold a topic when discussing a particular item on the agenda. However, I have already warned from this place many times that we are sticking to the topic of the agenda, because there is no topic that cannot be discussed and called upon by the fact that we are breathing the same air here in this assembly. Well, that's a common subject. But that should make sure that it's always ours to say so, our commitment. That's why, in time, it was an initiative to trouble the replica inside the club, if you remember. But sometimes it suits someone, and then we leave it behind, and the second time, it doesn't suit them, so it wouldn't. So this is about some of the principles that we're going to have to agree on in order to make Parliament work more efficiently. Let's get it up to speed. In order for the Parliament to be efficient in its work, so while it's like this, then we'll work like this, when we change we'll do something different. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's Mr. Agent Antom Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17329	Mr. President, Secretary of State. I think this topic deserves importance I'm not experiencing it, I'm experiencing it very important, I've already said because of it from the area where I came from when it was much, much more important maybe than today when road traffic developed. But in the introduction, however, to say that the establishment of this agency, therefore this proposal of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency with the Final Proposal of the Law, should certainly be supported because it addresses a lot of issues. It is not only formal support for this agency because we will now fit into the European rail system or we will have to accept some normative about the safety of our wagons, vehicles, means of transport. This proposal of course aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union and a declaration of its compliance with the acquis of the European Union with the rights of acts of the Council of Europe. What does this law really have to do with? My colleagues were already talking about it before me, so I'll just say that this law regulates the detour and structure of the Railway Safety Agency as an independent and independent public institution. The Agency must have this board of directors, we know who is setting it up and what are the responsibilities of the Governing Council. This law will create a legal framework for the achievement of an independent body that will be responsible for the safety of rail transport, so the Agency should enable all participants in the rail market under equal conditions, hence their operation and work. The Agency must also ensure the professional and efficient performance of the regulatory tasks. I would say, however, that the reform on HZ, i.e. on the railways, started on Croatian railways, that there have been significant investments in the past period, including on the premises, so there, which was once the main railway in these areas, so even at the time of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. But I'm not just experiencing the establishment of the agency that it's one way of saying it. However, when we analyse this law, then we see that when we discuss the activity of the agency, which is its business, I would not state all of it, because there are actually 17 said sub-members about it, but in one part of it is already spoken about today. However, I must stress something that is very important, which is being solved through this article, and which is not mentioned today in this debate. So, the Agency's activity, I will list several of these articles, so it provides solutions on safety for rail transport and legal persons carrying out transport for their own needs, then conducts a technical review and provides a solution for the operation of the structural subsystems of the railway system and the infrastructure subsystem. This is what counterpart Djurdjevic spoke about earlier, meaning very important production, therefore, of workshops that will be available to maintain traffic safety. So in the area where I am, where I live, there are two such workshops, so to repair such funds. Then, there's a technical review, you see, it's very important, so it's not just a formality, so we're setting up an agency to satisfy European laws. An authorisation is granted for use and maintenance, temporary use, therefore, in the area of ours comes cars from other countries, these vehicles come, and, of course, if this were not followed, it would have occurred as in the past to certain damages. Then approval for use and reconstruction of railway vehicles and approval for use of railway vehicles shall be serial and other. But in my view, too, one important segment is the register, but I also find it very significant, you see here the human resources are also mentioned, so people are mentioned, which, in my opinion, are very important, therefore, important segments and security. You see here it is mentioned, which we have not heard so far in the debate, so I would point out, so, you see, he is conducting expert exams and verifying the knowledge of executive workers, issuing convictions with a professional exam, and he is leading an eyewitness on the issued beliefs. I would, however, like my colleagues and those who worked and in school, point out that this was an education and so far was specific, that the final exams in schools and we have how much we know about the four schools they have in their composition, in their structure and rail traffic, so from Moravica, Zagreb, Ogulin and Split. The roads, of course, have a lot more. You see, and specific ways are being carried out, so the final exams and the final exams and those that end it must also take a theoretical part of the expert exam, and only then after a certain practice. So, you see this agency, the establishment of this agency will, in my view, be very, very important, one important question, therefore, people who are being educated or who are already in that system, that they will have to be continuously educated, that they will have to take exams, that they will have to be perfected, therefore, and that I see a chance for these schools that through direct decisions, they will set up certain conditions for those who will go to those schools, which are bound to see one specific occupation where you can't come to another area of economy with that interest but therefore, in one way by me and restricting the enrolmentment or that the agency is counting on those who are currently going to schools or colleges due to tomorrow's employment and job insurance. Because if that didn't happen, so, over a certain period, the one who completed such a program will forget, therefore, part of that profession, and simply won't be able to fit in if there's too much time to go back to that work world, so, in railways. So that's where I see one seriousness, and I wouldn't just go over it. So, the people who are going to work in that system, so, and who have to have that kind of education and therefore, I also see a chance for these schools to gain greater importance, to be more significant, because as a safety factor of rail transport, they will certainly make their contribution here. Furthermore, through this bill, therefore, we must also say from this activity that these questions are also being asked about who will lead the agency, therefore also one high level of expertise that is needed, therefore, in terms of the management of the agency, therefore, to verify security and the rest. I would also point out here that we can't look at this law and this agency just as a railroad. Already here before me someone pointed out, connecting actually road and rail transport, so it's like an integral transport, or maybe a door-to-door service where a colleague has already mentioned how it is in Austria, I believe that the same will be done in the development of the railways and in us. Here, in the end, it should also be pointed out that through this agency and the approvals for the use of railway vehicles will be said what is very important, as I also see significant funds for the development of Croatian railways as well as for the work of this agency being provided in the state budget. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17330	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17331	Thank you very much, Mr..../The speaker has shut down, so he's turned it back on.... thank you. So after more than three hours of discussion about this bill proposal and the establishment of this agency I've been wondering all along, what this agency is for, why... Now I get it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am now sure that after the establishment of this agency in HZ cars in summer we will no longer have heating and in winter cooling and that I am more sure that they will never repeat what happened recently when a mother with a child, about five years old, tried to get out of the car near Zabok as a passenger, so the door could not open. So then the conductor intervened, who also couldn't open the door, and when the door started, he pulled that emergency brake, as it was called, and the train didn't stop but stopped after 10 km in the woods. So again we continued the ride to the first station when they managed to stop the train to get the passengers off and waited two hours to return to the station where they wanted to get off. It's also the safety of rail traffic, I believe that this agency will solve these problems too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17332	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić is also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17333	Thank you, Mr. President. So the colleague also pointed out with the right that one of the most significant or significant activities of this agency will also be to educate people who are in the system, educate people who are in the system, however, the Agency's tasks will not only be that, but also in some way communicate with the public. Well, today we have a case that we only have in one year more than 600 car crashes and other vehicles on the lower ramp, only in one year. Then it shows, quite clearly and clearly, both the driving culture and the consciousness of certain individuals who thus risk their lives and the lives of their companions who are with them. And it is obvious that the agency will have a significant role to play in communicating with the public, and I am sure that this task will be known and fulfilled. In fact, the loss of life at marked crossings is indeed signifiable and should be reduced to the least possible measure and I really see the important role of the agency in this. Except for the one you rightly pointed out, educating people in the system itself. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17334	Thank you. Answer Mr. Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17335	Here I thank a fellow who, of course, has seen in this article 6 as well as I do, that this education is very, very important, that the human factor here that is present in the work on Croatian railways is also important and that through this segment must be ensured and therefore the implementation of these programmes which I still little must be recognised than in other vocational schools, because there are also certain specific knowledge being sought but also the conditions that come beyond that, in the insurance and that employment but I must say through these segments of security whether it is the road crossings, whether it is the maintenance of signal-safe devices that will certainly contribute therefore to the safety of rail transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17336	Thank you. It's Ms. Nevenka Marinovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17337	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, regardless of some debates at the beginning on the reduction of the importance of this topic but also the lack of interest of some colleagues, I believe that the Republic of Croatia plays a significant role in the functioning of European transport flows as a transport integral part of Europe, which also sets out its development needs in the area of rail transport and its geostrategic goal of linking with the European environment and equal inclusion in European integration. This is achieved primarily through the creation of legal and normative conditions for the functioning of the domestic railway in a way consistent with the operation of European railways on a close legal basis. The process of modernisation, restructuring and liberalisation of Croatian Railways, as said by the State Secretary and fellow MPs, began with the adoption of the Law on Railways in 2003, which created the basic preconditions for further continuation of the process through the establishment of a new regulatory framework for railway safety through the adoption of the Law on Railway Safety of 2007 which is in line with the regulations of the European Union. Further changes to Community legislation in order to establish a single market for rail transport services and the common regulatory framework for rail safety imposed the need for further rapid adaptation of domestic legislation in the area of security and interoperability and the adoption of the regulatory standards that each country must meet on the European corridor network in order to achieve the European Union's interest in opening traffic routes, but also to ensure a high level of rail safety but also to ensure equal transparency and non-discriminatory conditions for all rail market participants, which enables the establishment of regulation to monitor the implementation of the set targets. To that end, the proposal for this law provides for the establishment of an independent safety authority responsible for the adoption of a Law on the Agency for the Safety of Railways with the basic task of regulating, managing and monitoring the rail safety system and establishing and overseeing the operation of the system of safety of infrastructure managers, railway undertakings and legal persons carrying out transport for their own purposes. So the basic issues that are being settled are the following. It is, this law, this proposal of the law, which is part of the circle and structure of the Railway Safety Agency as an independent, independent public institution with public authority, its work and activity, the way of managing the Agency, the material rights and other rights and responsibilities of the members of the Governing Council shall be responsible for the exercise of supervision over the work of the Agency, the adoption of the statutes of the Agency by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Governing Council and other issues relevant to the functioning of the Agency as an independent expert body. Furthermore, this legislative proposal will create a legal framework to enable the achievement of the functions of an independent railway safety authority with a view to better monitoring of the system and the management of safety of railway operators, but to allow non-discriminatory equal access to all participants in the rail market under equal conditions. The proposed law and application will then continue the process of harmonising domestic legislation with that of the European Union through the adoption and implementation of secondary legal provisions of the European Union which regulate these issues, which are a directive of the European Community on the safety of railways of the Community and amending the Council Directive on the licensing of railway undertakings and the European Community Directive on the allocation of infrastructure capacity and charging of charges for the use of railway infrastructure. Furthermore, the aim of this law will be to create institutional and functional assumptions for the coordination and harmonisation of the organisational and technical structure of rail safety and rail system as a whole in the Republic of Croatia with the secondary legal regulations of the European Union which regulate the area and security and interoperability of rail transport, and by defining the responsibilities between railway undertakings and the establishment of a body of safety authorities will achieve a further degree of safety of the railway and easier access to the Republic of Croatia's market, rail transport services of the European Union. We see that the means are provided and significant so that the implementation of this legislative proposal can go as planned. So what it would mean is, I think by providing these funds, that it would be enough to do the quality of all those tasks that are foreseen in this, which are provided for in this legislative proposal. I will support the proposal for a law on the Railway Safety Agency because I am sure that its adoption and the establishment of the Agency will ensure that the process of harmonising the rail system with the European Union rules is speeded up in accordance with the deadlines provided for by the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union, but also that the conditions for the national rail system to participate equally and competitively in the market for rail services in the European Union will also allow for the management of rail transport in a safe and interoperability manner in line with the needs of the Republic of Croatia first and the requirements of the European Union. But faster inclusion of Croatian railways on the trans-European railway network. Here's why I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17338	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas I hope short as well as short answers. First Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17339	Thank you, Mr. President. So on the replica, I was offered a debate by a colleague, who said at one point: "equal security to all rail services users". I would like to say that unfortunately not all train users have equal safety from one particular aspect. From the point of view of the vicinity of mine suspected areas, the corridors of railway lines in the war-torn areas. Just from one such war of the lost area I come from western Slavonia from the area of the town of Pakrac where when you ride the train through our railroad through the window you see warning tables on mine suspected areas. So I would like to ask and suggest that the Agency has in its priorities the demining of the wider corridor of mine suspected areas around the railways that at least passengers, our domestics are already used to mine suspected areas of course, but passengers who drive but are not from that area do not have to be faced visually and also with potential danger from mines which are still unfortunately near the spring corridors. Of course, this activity can and should be implemented in cooperation with the Croatian Mine Action Centre and local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17340	Thank you. Mrs. Marinovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17341	Here, thank you, colleague Hushka. This is the area, I'm glad you mentioned this area. I've dealt with minemining in Zadar County for many years. But here's a good thing to remind you once again how huge the funds are to this day are invested in demining and in the safety of these and spring corridors other than roadways. However, a still significant area is still a significant area of mine suspicion, and significant funds are still being invested in these corridors. But I'm going to use this replica and say that everything that isn't, everything that's mine-suspecting is marked by the boards of a mine-suspecting area and that we should stick to them, send one appeal to the public. Sticking to means also in these conditions signs of danger and continuing demining. I think that in the Croatian Railways programme there is still room to continue demining in order to secure this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17342	Thank you. Replica, Mrs Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17343	Thank you, Mr. President. I was encouraged by the replica that she was a colleague of Marinovic coming from the city of Zadar. In her debate, she said that one of the objectives of the safety of rail infrastructure management is the aim of the agency. So if this agency had existed before, there would certainly not have been a construction of the railway line on the route Knin – Zadar in the town of Bibinje where the railway passes literally through private courtyards and gardens. That is probably why this railway is prepared for reconstruction, or better said for moving and for the safety of locals, and very, very insecure railroad with several spring crossings. It has come to pass that the track will have to be moved over the next few years. That's a lot of expenses. If there was an agency like this that we're talking about today, and we think it's irrelevant to talk about it, and yet it's important that the agency would probably react in such a way that it wouldn't be allowed to build a railroad literally through private gardens, or almost a meter from elementary school. The children could have touched the train through the window in the old school building.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17344	Thank you. Mrs. Marinovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17345	Here's a thank you, colleague Roxandic, for reminding me of the problem here. I hope the agency has a role to play in this part anyway. However, here I would say that the Bibinian waiting has finally come to an end. We talked to them recently. So, moving the railway line from the very place that literally intersects the entire Bibinje into two parts one coastal beautiful little place touristically. They'll move. Project documentation has been made. Thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the programme has entered the four-year plan of the Croatian Railways, which they are naturally very excited about. This project will literally change the very visor of the village of Bibinje, and certainly the safety of the locals who have lived and crossed these railways for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17346	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17347	Thank you, Mr. President. The replica did not encourage me that Mrs. Marinović from Zadar, but that she noticed the indifference of some colleagues, and I am surprised that in 193 minutes this debate was not mentioned in the railways by the islands, so I will mention it. Of course, there are no miles of railroads on the islands, but that doesn't mean that the islanders don't want to ride the railroad. Well, there's one problem with that, though. Mr. Secretary of State, from Split to Zagreb we have 3 trains a day one morning, one afternoon, one evening. This morning's train leaves at 7.37 and no islander can reach it in the morning because the ferry in Split comes between 7.30 and 7.50. If possible, and I believe that this would not cause global problems on the world market and in rail transport that first train moved in half an hour to allow that part of the citizens to use Croatian Railways services I would be very grateful to you and believe in the name of a large number of islanders. And regardless of what some of the debates we're turning into, here's how I hope this is how we solved the parking problem, because from now on we're all going to start coming to the Parliament on how long this debate on the Croatian Railways is going to take.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17348	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17349	... And I noticed that there was, that I challenged you and that you were talking about this topic. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17350	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's move on. I hope we'll do a little bit of what I say to reduce the width and length, so here's Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17351	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The government has submitted to us the Final Proposal of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency which should create a legal framework for the work of the Agency as an independent body. Since the Republic of Croatia plays a very important role in the functioning of European, transport flows as a transport integrated part of Europe, which sets out the development needs of rail transport, but also the strategic goal is to connect with the European environment and integrate into European integration. In fact, the last body that we need to establish in the process of joining the European Union when it comes to rail transport is a railway agency. The adoption of the Law on Railways in 2003 governing the structure of the system, modes and conditions of transport, infrastructure status and conditions of access to the railway infrastructure, which is the system of regulation of this rail transport activity at that time, means that the adoption of this Law on Railways has already begun the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. The process of modernisation, restructuring and liberalisation of the Croatian Railways was therefore initiated by the adoption of the Law on Railways which created the basic conditions for the further continuation of this process through the establishment of a new framework for railway safety by adopting the Law on Safety in Railways so that the establishment of the Agency is surrounded by a legal framework which is in line with the legislation of the European Union. What does the agency law give us, and what are the tasks of the Railway Safety Agency? The Railway Safety Agency will, among other things, bring security solutions for railway undertakings and legal persons carrying out transport for their own purposes. It will deliver security solutions for infrastructure managers, carry out a technical review, make solutions for railway test sections, conduct a technical examination and issue approvals for the use of railway prototypes, run a railway vehicle register, monitor the validity of the registration of the rolling stock, carry out expert tests and check the knowledge of professional workers, issue licences for the management of railway vehicles. Therefore, the new agency should ensure better supervision of the rail safety management system and effective regulation and allow equal and non-discriminatory access to all actors in the rail market. This draft law regulates the organisation of the Agency as an independent and independent institution with public powers, its work and activity, management, material rights and responsibility of the members of the Governing Council, competence in the exercise of supervision, the adoption of statutes by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other issues relevant for the functioning of the Agency as an independent and expert body. The agency will be headed by the director of the board of directors who will be established early next year, and will be elected by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Law on the Railway Safety Agency opens the door to the liberalisation of railways, the first step for the entry of foreign railway undertakings into Croatia. In Europe, it is already agreed that all countries open their rail infrastructures and for carriers from other countries that Croatia is currently in negotiations on EU accession, and this law falls within the package of European laws. The Agency will worry about meeting the requirements on rail safety, which means that the Croatian railways will not be able to transport a single carrier that does not have a license to transport in its own country and which does not fully comply with European and other international requirements. Croatia has a significant role to play in the functioning of European transport flows, so the inclusion of our railways in the European Union network is essential, above all, on the close legal basis. Harmonisation of legislation is very important because of the economic significance of the railway and the need to ensure conditions in the domestic rail system for equal participation in the rail market in the European Union. It is also important to include domestic railways more quickly on the trans-European rail network. So, I would like to conclude, the establishment of the agency will create a legal framework for better supervision of the safety of railway operators, but in the end, I would like to conclude with one proposal, and since many in the area where I come from are emotionally bound to one train, therefore the entire Cetinan landscape is emotionally bound and nostalgia remembers the blue river and I propose in this modernization of railways that will be in the next 15 years, so to find places because it will be not only tourist attractions, but also those who have seen the sea for the first time will now be able to use the transport of products from the Cetin region to the Dalmatian coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17352	I thought there'd be a further supplemental proposal to extend to Vrlika, then on. ... Yeah, it's always been a big morning, whether it's afternoon or night. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First of all, Mr. Vujic, I don't know if you got the word maybe? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've been commenting on that before, I don't know if you've been when I've been commenting on it, too. [[Intruder: But you've already commented.]] So let's really, let's hurry. Boris Matkovic give up? It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17353	I didn't give up. Anyway, the replica refers to what my esteemed colleague, Rebic, has just mentioned. In fact, my replica just referred to it, I think Article 6 for those who do not want to listen today is talking about the Agency's activity, so it is certainly a question of railway development at all. And the question that Niko spoke about was certainly the question that should be discussed in this House because it has been discussed so far at the level of the Split-Dalmatia County Tourist Board, which is this famous project of resuscitation for the tourist purposes of the Sinj Rera. Why are we talking about this, why are we supporting a colleague of Nick here because I was going to say something about it? Resuscitation of tradition is clearly linked to the offer offered by the Cetina region is certain to indicate if anything else, then to think, and certainly something else, and that is when it comes to the project then it means new jobs, i.e. new types of tourist offer. And finally, by the way, there is something else to say, which is that citizens and people who have discussed this topic clearly ask the question whether it is possible because we have a project near us here in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has already come to life and is therefore talking about the programme of the return of "Cire". Ciro already works in the area towards Herzegovina, offers various offers. Why wouldn't that be the subject that this House would discuss, and certainly, at the level of development of railways, citizens certainly expect, is it possible in the five-year plan and discuss it?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17354	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17355	I thank my dear colleague for asking. In the Homeland War, I don't think anything's as bad as the railroads, the stations, the crossings, the tracks. So, there hasn't been a time yet, and that's why I think now is the right time because this is the first government that has really developed a strategy for rebuilding rail transport, so that will take place in the next 15 years, and this is the right time for one proposal for our son's rera to extend it to Vrlica and Knina, so it would be a nice ride for all those who love nature, so they love this wonderful Dalmatian end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17356	This is still out of the agenda. Mr. Grubishic, you can't rephrase the line, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17357	I didn't know it was a replica. I thought it was a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17358	Here's your chance, Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17359	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I think that some discussions and some replicas previously referred to from the left-hand side in any case mean, or perhaps not accepting the sign of conversation today in this House on this extraordinary subject or perhaps through those incursions we can also understand some other attitudes and level of thinking on some issues. But we can talk about it at some other level as well. As far as today's topic is concerned, I will join my predecessors, colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community club, who will absolutely support this proposal, because we understand that the issue of safety in rail transport is certainly relatively high today, and in any case I would disagree with some previous exhibitions, especially at the beginning, I would disagree with a colleague from the Croatian People's Party club who said that today the safety of rail transport is almost catastrophic. It is therefore certainly relatively high in particular if traffic safety is compared with other transport, or other traffic. However, the railway is in Europe and so the national carrier of the Republic of Croatia is going through one restructuring process in which the infrastructure management function is separated from the function of providing transport services. I think that is also a very important issue, and in this process it is necessary to maintain the level of security achieved, and preferably increase it. The basic objective of this is certainly when it comes to the establishment of a railway safety agency will be significantly improved and will contribute to the improvement of rail safety in general. The Agency, which is spoken of, also has its responsibilities, and it concerns issues that are very diverse, but also significant, such as the issue, extension, change and abolition of the safety solution for railway undertakings, infrastructure manager and legal persons carrying out transport for their own needs. So already through this segment and part can be seen what is the signification of the topic, i.e. the bill on which this House today discusses. The Agency will also issue approvals to start the operation of the structural subsystems of the railway system, to monitor whether system parts, test shares, to issue licences for the use of railway vehicles, to issue licences for the management of railway vehicles, to monitor the validity of the registration of the rolling stock, etc. So the topics previously discussed, which some considered irrelevant, are very important beginnings and technical maintenance and vehicles and education, etc. etc. They are clearly indicated here. The Agency shall also participate in the development of the regulatory framework in such a way as to take part in the development of the proposal for sublegal needs necessary to carry out the safe course of transport. The Agency shall monitor the security management system of infrastructure managers, railway undertakings... legal persons carrying out transport for their own purposes etc. This Proposal for a Law on the Railway Safety Agency addresses some issues clearly which have not been regulated by law so far, and which are necessary for the functioning of this Agency. I personally clearly believe that the security management system will determine the distribution of responsibilities for traffic safety and how to ensure control at different levels of management of this structure. I therefore believe that the five-year plan that we have in Croatia for the democratic community will become more modern, more secure, they will fully participate in the transport of the European Union as well as in their own level and in all directions equally, both east and north, south, which will in any case contribute to us because we know what position strategically in any case in all modes of transport, i.e. transport infrastructure has a Republic of Croatia. The issue of a solution as one of the security issues for the infrastructure manager and railway carrier has been in the ministry's jurisdiction so far. However, the proposal for this law transfers that competence to the Agency. The Decision also on the security of the infrastructure manager and the railway carrier demonstrates that they have established a security management system and that they meet the conditions for the safe movement of railways prescribed by domestic and international laws. What I would also like to say in the end is the same answer to some, so just in the beginning, that this is just a dead letter on paper. I can answer that it is not a dead letter on paper if we have closely followed and read but rather something that will certainly contribute to the overall development of rail transport by means of a five-year plan. We in Croatia are optimistic, so we will certainly support this Final Proposal of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17360	Thank you. We have a replica. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17361	Dear Mr. President, there are several claims that my colleague Matkovic would be replicating. For example, he says the level of safety in rail transport is high. This may be true if it is only seen from rail rakurse, but when the overall context of security is taken into account in the Republic of Croatia for which the minister of police is responsible, I think this safety story is relatively relative. Furthermore, the establishment of the agency will contribute to increasing railway safety. It is possible, but I think the overall security in the Republic of Croatia will primarily contribute to the replacement of the police minister. Then he goes on to say that not accepting the character of the debate on this subject is a very interesting thing. Well, there's probably a reason why you don't accept the signification of this topic and you don't recognize it. I guess because for two and a half hours a debate has been stalled in front of the Croatian TV cameras to prevent the Croatian public from finding out what the opposition means... /The speaker turned off, and then turned off again./... this turns off the microphone, it is another method used by colleagues from HDZ. What is the surprise then that we do not recognize the level of signification of this topic, when the issue of security in the Republic of Croatia is much wider than the topic of safety of the situation on the railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17362	I agree it's much wider, of course it is. Imagine if we spent this much time on all aspects of security, we wouldn't spend in a month. Answer, Mr. Boro Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17363	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Beus Richembergh... Don't turn it off, I'm on, there's no need to do it because I'll tell you anyway what I think, no matter what. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] You obviously didn't listen to what I was saying and what I said. I said that safety in rail transport is relatively high, especially if traffic safety is compared to other transport. Therefore, you did not replicate, responded in the sense in which you needed to because you did not listen to me. However, I have to answer you in this replica in another way, and it is a shame to me that even one parliamentary representative elected by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the voters is talking this way when we talk about the safety of traffic or the safety of citizens in general in railway transport. Go replicate in a way and talk about the Director of Police and talk about it that way, and here we talk about the safety of every citizen in transport that relates clearly to transport, in rail transport and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17364	Thank you. Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17365	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's what I'd like to say about this proposal for a law on the Railway Safety Agency. This draft law regulates the delirquency and structure of the Railway Safety Agency as an independent and independent public institution with public powers, its work and activity, the way of managing the Agency, the material rights and other rights and responsibilities of the members of the Management Board, the competence to exercise supervision over the work of the Agency, the adoption of the statutes of the Agency by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Governing Council and other issues relevant to the functioning of the Agency as an independent and expert body. The Croatian legislation as far as the railways are concerned began by harmonising with the European Union as early as 2003. The process of modernisation, reconstruction and liberalisation of Croatian Railways began with the adoption of the Law on Railways and the Law on Railway Safety. I will now look a little bit more around, as I come from Zagreb County on the other side of Zagorje, on the problem I am sure that this bill will solve anyway. And in the beginning, I must commend the Croatian railways when we talk about investments, so I will say that this year is in Zagreb County, i.e. in the Municipality of Brdovec Croatian railways went in the reconstruction of the railway from Sava Marofa to Harmica in the length of cca 5 km was invested cca 40 million kuna where a new track was built, where three railway stations were built, where a complete infrastructure with crossings was arranged, with everything needed to ensure the crossing across these railway routes. And in any case we should be commended because I think when we talk about Zagorje, we have that Zagorje booze, you've all heard of it, it's very popular in Zagorje. And in that part of us, rail traffic was of great importance and interest to all those who live there. What should be said and commended that the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure from 2008 to 2012 entered and that it is going with the reconstruction of the railway line from Zapresic to Zabok for which cca 50 million in the budget is provided means for that period. Because I think it's one of the most important directions of the Northwest Croatia bar as far as passenger traffic is concerned, but also freight traffic. In that area of Zagorje, on the side of Zagorje along the railway line, there is no big business zone, so I have to say that there is one in Zapresić of a million squares, with me in Bistra of two million squares, without speaking further up the municipalities and the city of Zabok and all that happens next to those railways. It is commendable and I hope that this project will be realized as well. What I would like to stress, in any case, is a major problem that occurred in 2001, and colleagues from the SDP most likely remember it, the railway that went from Zapresic and through Harmica mountain Vukovo village for Kumrovec was abolished in 2001 and was even restored. I hope so too, and this has also entered the program, cca 38 km length of the railway, which is one link meaning from Zapresic, from the town of Zagreb, Zapresic and over here is the Kumrovec mountain and towards Slovenia. I hope that problem is solved. The information I have is that there are problems on the part of the Republic of Slovenia because the railway is passing through parts of Slovenia and is returning to Croatia, so there is a problem of publishing and authorisation and all that is needed to put the railway into operation. I don't need to talk about the importance of these railways because I think that for the end of the track that was once in operation until Kumrovec, the extension of the Slovenian border, even to Celje, is of great importance because the same economic here is a bit of a start to resuscitate, especially when we know that now here in Kumrovec is the iron cylinder that this railway is necessary for easier transport and faster transport. As for this corridor from Zapresic, Zabok, Varazdin, Čakovec within 100 km, I don't think it should be with those sections that go towards both Krapina and Stubica, I don't think it should be too much to say how important it is for the development of the whole of Zagorje. And I'm also glad that it got into the program, the National Programme of Railways, and that's where it's planned to be provided, there's 260 million kunas secured. Here, I'm from Bistra. Most of you heard about it, and it's probably the most famous train station, it was in that former Yugoslavia, they called it the Clear Desert. This Clear Desert is always used as some synonym of some sort of backlog or something, it's one station that was between the Desert and the Bistra, and it was of terrible importance for the whole area, because it was the only transport that the citizens could use, so I hope that since we have a station and we don't have railways, that maybe we in the Bistra get the track one day, and then really that station has a name and a function. Here's that I don't take too much time, I think it's important that here's the vote of this Law on the Railway Safety Agency, because I think that, as in previous discussions, it's said that this will solve a lot both in terms of transition and everything that's important. And I could also point out that rail transport is particularly important in our region of Zagorje on the economic side because of passenger transport. We now unfortunately have cases where HH has to organise bus transport, where it is not profitable anyway, and I think that by reconstructing those railways that I have stated would certainly solve it for the benefit of all those living in the area. And as for the suburban railroad, all praise. Here by opening that stock to Harmica, I think that the whole end of the Sava Valley has won its value, and also to its citizens who use that suburban train, it must be much easier to get to the very metropolis with which, thank God we are all closely connected, given that school, is that a job. Here's to all of this, I will in any case support this proposal of the Law on the Railway Safety Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17366	Thank you. We have a replica of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17367	A fellow Gulić referred to the state of railway and railway transport in Zagreb County in his own words, unfortunately I have to say that there are some serious problems. For example. Croatian railways have been advertised for years on a requirement to form a railway station in Lower Lomnica. Similarly, HDZ administration and key people in the Ministry of Construction and Croatian highways have for months prevented the design and arrival of a light rail vehicle in Velika Gorica from the direction of the Homeland Bridge. Therefore, I would not have forged all this in the stars, especially in the context of the situation of Secretary Roncevic's responsibility for overall security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17368	Mr. Gulic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17369	Well, here's the problem, Gorica, I wouldn't exactly agree with that, and it's being put in context again, I don't know Minister Roncevic. I was going to say that yesterday's discussion, the debate when we had all afternoon three and a half now I think it lasted on Medvednica Nature Park for every praise. And it should be commended that such a debate yesterday, and it was kind of encouraged by our opposition, should be commended, but I also think that today's debate on the problem of railways and safety in transport and infrastructure, I think it's just as important, nothing less important than yesterday's debate. Well, I hope that this item of the agenda that you're always talking about will come today and after the break in order, and we'll certainly discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17370	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17371	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I think it's a lot said today about setting up an agency, so I'm going to try to be as short as possible to get the next item on the agenda as possible. But it seems rather unreasonable to me that he is trying today to challenge the importance of this topic in certain debates in the order of opposition deputies. The topic on the agenda is the agency that will take care of rail safety in a way that will regulate and manage and monitor the rail safety system. The rail safety system cannot be efficient without modernising the same railway system. And that's what we're talking about today. Of course these are two related things, of course they are closely connected, because the agency itself in its tasks commits itself to improving the security system precisely through modernisation and through education, and through various monitoring activities of both persons and the entire system of machinery and all actors in the rail transport system. It is therefore truly surprising that some do not care to discuss the system in which the Croatian state will invest 18 billion Croatian kunas over the next 4 years. 18 billion kuna will be invested in the next period based on the national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, so in this period from 2008 to 2012 and from the opposition lines we get statements of type, it is not so important, it is important to discuss the next item of the agenda. Your all points of the agenda would otherwise not have come to the debate at the Croatian Parliament. Every point that comes to the Croatian Parliament is very important to the Croatian public, otherwise it would make no sense to have it on the agenda. If someone doesn't care how and how they invest 18 billion kunas from the state budget in one system, then the question really is, what is important to these people, what is really important to them. If they don't care about the safety of all traffic users, especially citizens, especially rail users, then the question is what matters to these people if they don't care that 600 passenger cars run into ramps every year at different crossings, then the question is what's important. Is this more important or a political approach perhaps to other topics? It's obviously more important to them than this. We need to do this first. It is more important for us to make this rail infrastructure as high as possible, as best as possible, to achieve it at European standards and that is what this agency will worry about. This agency will make sure that all railway actors reach and reach European standards, and we all know well that we have traveled to the railways of Europe, we know how nice it is to travel from Paris to Strasbourg, 500 kilometers in 2 hours and 15 minutes by train called TZB. That's our goal. And I cannot understand that some club representatives today are making statements that Croatia lost its connection to Europe, that it will not be able to become a regional leader because it has not invested anything in the railway infrastructure in the past period. In addition to this decision to invest in this four-year period of 18 billion kuna, we have invested in the previous years, and only the last two of us have already said that we have invested a billion and a half kuna in the railway system. Is that nothing? And secondly, we do not give up our ambition to become a rail leader, in this part of the region because our geostrategic position is extremely important and usable. In this sense, and certainly Croatian railways and the entire railway system will benefit greatly from the strong integration of the Croatian system into the European system. I would point out that it is extremely important that what someone has touched in the debate and it has been related to ecology and the fact that today the European Union, or the European Commission, which is actually the government of the European Union, encourages exactly rail transport in a way that trucks that are really very much on highways across Europe, reroute them and that these trucks are actually transported by rail. This is extremely important, extremely important for Croatia as Croatia is indeed a transit country, especially in this part of the truck transport, we all know that... The highway, the fastest route from Western Europe to Asia, and that it will become very intense, will use especially with Croatia's entry into the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is our job, in fact, to invest as much in this transport system as possible, to ensure as high quality infrastructure as possible to respond to that task as it is in our interest, in the interest of our future, because it makes no sense to bury Croatian highways with trucks. We see that the highways in Europe are already narrow, when you go to Germany today, they spread in all places possible highways on three lanes on both sides, precisely because trucks are taking up two lanes of complete traffic today. These two systems are extremely connected to each other and therefore I would in some way support what is in the national strategy, which is the future and integration and Dubrovnik, the southernmost part of Croatia with the railway and infrastructure of Croatia, here already said something about Sinjska... I wouldn't talk about her, there is, and in Dubrovnik he was once... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] but I think it is extremely important to integrate this Croatian south, to connect it if anything else, at least to part of the 5C rail corridor infrastructure, which will be very soon and developed, and that is the corridor that goes from Ploč to Hungary, towards the Baltic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in this sense, we think that the Croatian South should also connect in that part, of course with that highway that is already being built towards Dubrovnik today, to contribute to the future development of the southernmost part of Croatia. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17372	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17373	Mr Matusic, I understand, but I am sad that you do not understand why insisting on the responsibility of the police minister is contextualised and in the subject of safety in rail transport. In fact, whenever a rail security incident happens, you know, it's not the first agency that comes to you, but first it's the traffic police, the crime police. Namely, that Luka... killed on the train, if Mr. Radenovic had been beaten in a car, if Mr. Galinec had been attacked in a car, the police would have just come out on the spot and then we would have come back to Minister Roncevic and his responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we talk about safety in rail transport for God's sake, let's be aware of how much the area is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17374	Answer Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17375	Well, I understand you very well, my colleague, because the politics that comes from your ranks is very, very well understood, no one is afraid of the debate we will be very happy to discuss and very deeply discuss the successes of the Croatian police but also not solved cases. I'd love to. And we will certainly, together, work very well. But you do not seem to understand that the importance of safety in rail transport is exceptional and that it deserves the attention of the Croatian Parliament and all MPs. Obviously, you who do not see the importance in the fact that 18 billion kunas will invest in the Croatian railway that you obviously or do not want to know about it or want to politicise exclusively in one political way as you have done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17376	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17377	I listened to Mr. Matušić's statement and it is clear that everyone here is clear that investment in the railway is 18 billion kuna and that has passed the investment that was very important for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and also for the parliamentary representatives. But it's very indicative today, but as yesterday when it came to government regulations that there was one chess match, or party exactly in connection with the next item of the agenda that's being conducted here. What you're saying to us, I'd say a little bit maybe roughly, demagoguely, you're explaining that it's very important, etc., we see that the debate actually came down in the local patriotic railway debate. And as for corridor 5c, which I wanted to especially correct, it starts in Kiev, or Kia in Ukraine and ends in the Tablets. Not in the Baltic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17378	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Matusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17379	Thank you. First of all, no one has ever limited anyone in the debates, nor have we agreed on how long it takes. Secondly, I personally care about this subject, which is why I called in for a debate and I told you what I had to say. Apparently, other MPs are calculating in some other way. Obviously. But that's really their thing, and I don't want to talk about it. Of course corridor 5c goes as you said, however, when you talk about the system that we connect to Hungary then it is quite clear that that part of the direction towards the Baltic is also included in the entire system. Therefore, it is absolutely certain that the importance of this corridor is exceptional for the Croatian south, above all for the town of Ploče, but also for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for Eastern Slavonia, for the entire Croatian economy. And in that sense absolute support. After all, that investment is still going on. Investments in corridor 5c are 750 million kuna, they are ongoing. They're in progress. Therefore, I am quite sure that this system will certainly benefit all of us in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17380	Thank you. In the name of the club... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17381	I ask you nicely on behalf of the club, before these final debates take place in the clubs, I would like to tell you that, and remind all of us, that it has been five months since the SDP Representatives' Club asked to conduct a debate in this House on the security situation in the Republic of Croatia. For a full five months, it seems everything, on your part, and today here is the complete HDZ club that this debate does not come on the agenda or that it will come at a time when the Croatian public will not be able to monitor the debate. I have to say that all morning the phones at the SDP Club are ringing as much as I can see in other opposition clubs and citizens protesting this kind of work of Parliament because today, the Croatian public has not been able to listen to a debate on one of them an extremely important topic which does not dispute that this agency is an important topic, but the security situation is definitely something that bothers every citizen of this country. So on behalf of the SDP Club, I'm asking you to speak to HTV leaders for up to 3 hours as someone who is at the head of public television and should be very important to the public and therefore their right to hear debates in this House. I ask you, through your discussion and the authority of the President of the Croatian Parliament, to provide the afternoon debate of HTV when we will finally discuss the safety report in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17382	Thank you. For the past eight months since I've been elected to this new duty, I've never called television, so I won't call today. So my principle is that I don't call television in anything. Not to rush anything, not to avoid transmissions. So I'm acting in principle and principle, and I don't want to rat anyone out or talk anyone out of anything. That's one thing. Secondly, the SDP club asked to move the agenda item to the police minister's report from the 56th place where it was originally lined up to 27th place I did the first time. Second time this morning from third to second. The issue of the importance of the agenda item is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure which I normally adhere to as much as I can and also by subjective assessment which point is important which I will not engage in. If I didn't think it wasn't important this item on the agenda, I wouldn't have appreciated your suggestion that it move forward and come on the agenda as soon as possible. Just before in my intervention and comment it was about Ms. Lugaric's remarks that we were moving away from the agenda point because at this point in the agenda we were discussing issues that had no direct connection with the agenda point but with... The debate, I agreed with her. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I agreed with some others, or I warned them to return to the agenda because they had extended the subject many times and I did not look to the left or the right, but I warned MPs to stick to the agenda. That's why... In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, proceed with the work of the session at 15 hours after the end of two other clubs of 5 minutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as I'm concerned, all the TVs can be included and transmitted if they want to, but not under mine, through my intervention, because that would be the first time I've intervened and I want to stick to principles. After all, television doesn't even have to listen to me if I intervene. Why would he in this case, and not in someone else? So I'm staying in my principled position not to call television about what they're going to carry and what they won't. And now I give my word to Mr. Boris Grubisic for five minutes on behalf of the HDSSB Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17383	Mr. President, colleagues, few colleagues and colleagues, although Croatian television viewers would prefer to watch another Slavonci here, I believe and think so and therefore, instead of Minister Rončević from Našica, this time I am the representative of the 5th electoral unit from Slavonski Brod. This debate on the Railway Safety Agency which should be based on this law, the bill is all that is actually today, which is not actually spoken of today. The superstrategist of this bill is quite another thing and this debate turned out to be one, I said to a railway patriot, one railway local patriotic debate and suggestions to a future agency based simply on what it should do and where it could help and where there are problems or interests to help such an agency and from its powers which are actually in this bill and written. So then we evoked memories of... , narrow stripes and other things that actually have virtually nothing to do with this law, and then it obviously implies that something else is involved, like the SDP debate yesterday, exclusively on government regulations at a time when the Parliament does not sit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in fact, in some sense, I join the debate and express my dissatisfaction where I live maximum, which is that it was abolished without reason by political fact by some decision, by a decision of the administration that is being replaced, come and go on the railroad like on a film tape, and then the film speed disappears from the Slavonski Brod node, which has all the conditions to be a railway hub. So there are even today when it comes to the port of Brod, when it comes to the border crossing, when it comes to the future bridge over Sava and so on. Unfortunately, there is no mention of that strategy we discussed in the spring. Here are mentioned narrow stripes and we have the Našice-Caglin-Pletternica track which is completely, I don't know if it's even drawn there on that railway map but, which is completely abandoned, it was abandoned and in wartime there was a vein of housewives as you like to say, not you, but as you like to say deliberately eastern Croatia but actually Slavonia and Baranja. Because I can't stand that expression in eastern Croatia. In Slavonski Brod, in addition to the fact that there is a railway crossing, which is neither the railways nor the Croatian roads, and I have discussed this with Minister Shuker where there are conditions for European standards, so the number of passenger cars or cars passing across the railway line is important. They were listed last year in 15300 in one day. The European standard is 10,000 vehicles. 15300 vehicles at that train crossing at Osijek Street in Slavonska Brod pass in half the city daily with 45 ramps. No one in this country, and unfortunately none of the local officials care about that either. So there is no vertical authority to resolve this transition once, and this is the lifeline of the city, the fifth city, we are responsiblely claiming in the Republic of Croatia, which has 80,000 inhabitants. And those praises about the car wash, which is actually an ecological question, and which also about the representative vehicles of the rail tram, is simply the product of Đura Đaković, the wits of Đura Đaković disappeared or appeared once in some, in another factory and today a nice ride is made by these new, low floor trams driving around Zagreb. And that's the work of engineers from Slavonski Brod, and you don't know that. But many Brodjans know how it came and left Slavonski Brod. So it's not about the railroad. But speaking of building a railroad 50 km per year and 80 km of construction, then I would really have to say that there is an inequality of regional, in a regional approach. Although the 10th corridor passes through Slavonia trans-European and passes the fifth corridor both in part and in the fourth corridor trans-European. It is certain that Slavonia and Baranja were cut off in that part as well as in the roadside. If we were to sum up the money that is being invested, then when we withdraw the refund that we would say under monetary investment in all these reconstructions, the construction of new railways would certainly be able to see a significant difference in that amount of money invested in the region of Slavonia and Baranja. So, for the railroads. I'm not talking about the region as a region, compared to, therefore, the railways from other parts. And besides, someone was talking here about the Sunja Strip – Sisak. Well, what about the extension for the unicensed line? Well, it's like a appendix now. If there's no track to the Volonja in vain. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Ten ramps to Bihac I pass every summer. Don't, please. I would, having finished my red so that I wouldn't be longer and I wouldn't take a break precious to my fellow MPs, and I don't have much to thank them for their patience in the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17384	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17385	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'll say a few minutes on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. So, after the adoption of the Law on Railways adopted by this High House, the Law on Railway Safety, this is just another law that the Croatian State and, above all, the Croatian Railways are approaching the European Union, the legislation of the European Union, and this is just the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union, which we all strive so hard to do when we speak informally. And when we're supposed to say formally, then we're looking for other people, so I'd say local patriotic and political reasons. I'll try to say on behalf of the club something that no one else here today in the Assembly has said in spite of the debate of four, five hours, and I think it's a big role for the agency when it comes to rail traffic, about the safety of rail traffic. First of all, in my court, this applies in the present way of diversity on Croatian railways, and there have been since the former Yugoslav railways. This is diversity, diversity in tow vehicles, rolling stock, diversity in our power supply system. Well, we're one of the few countries in Europe that has two power supply systems for electric locomotives, electric trains. We've got 3,000 volts of the same direction. We have a monophasic 25,000 volts. We must be one of the few countries that has diesel electric locomotives, diesel locomotives, diesel hydraulic locomotives, which has shinobuses, and at the same time has tilt trains. There is no such diversity anywhere, and surely a good part of Europe would envy us, because we can indeed organize tourist routes and with steam locomotive, with a shinobus and with a tilt across French trains. Why am I saying that? I'm talking about the fact that there was one regulatory body, regulatoryly, that one agency would certainly not have been there. There would be no such diversity that burdens the taxpayers of our country, as Croatian railways are financed with their own resources around 20%. The rest is our assets. Imagine what a storage facility it is, which is a material asset that is invested in spare parts so that this one locomotive is capable of having spare parts, and the difference is that I don't speak. Imagine what a burden it is for the staff. Well, staff must be trained for all those locomotives. So I'm telling you that Croatian railways are one of the most educated in Europe. There must be elements for that. Imagine a man who goes to work, and he doesn't know, he knows he's going to drive that train, and I don't know if he's going to go to a hydraulic locomotive, to a diesel locomotive, that he's going to go to a monophasic, to the same-way engine, to which the locomotive is going to go. Well, a man changes his car, so he's unusual, and we're asking a man to go to work, to drive 100 miles, and he doesn't know which locomotives he's driving. It is this agency that will regulate and certainly not be in the future. It's bad luck, too. My colleague's partly right. When there's been an accident, an accident, and people, unfortunately, are bleeding somewhere, you don't know who's going to do it first. Will the internal rope control, HZ, be the police, the police. Who'll be the first to arrive at the crash site? You didn't know. It wasn't regulated. It's this agency that's about to do it. Therefore, all congratulations to the ministry on these materials and the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17386	Thank you. And finally Mr Branimir Jerneic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Structure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17387	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. Here I am going to make an effort in the end to be brief, but let me stress again. This is one of the last, if not the last law we're with in this honored home. It has been rounding up the entire work and the Ministry of Transport and People in the Croatian Railways since 2003. After the adoption of the Law on Railways in 2003, there was a small delay in administrative coordination, but the work was initiated intensively in 2005 and from that moment on the Law on the division of Croatian railways was adopted. It also preceded the adoption of all the regulations that the Law on Railways had long since been laid down in 2003. In 2006, a division of the Croatian Railways took place when the Government of the Republic of Croatia made decisions on the division of Croatian railways, their shut down and the establishment of 4 new legal successors and HZ Holding, to which it later passed on the business stakes that were created in newly established companies. During that intervention in 2006, the Ministry of Transport worked to prepare the pre-accession strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the railway sector and was also adopted together in coordination with the European Commission and the IPA pre-accession strategy. In 2007, the Law on Railway Safety was adopted in this respected home and the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets. But I think a big step has been made, also by amending the Law on Railways. Just today, when the debate often had regional frameworks, it touched Zagreb, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovac, Varazdin and some other cities or regions in the Republic of Croatia, I must stress that in 2007 the Parliament adopted amendments to the Law on Railways, which he said was the construction, modernisation and maintenance of railway infrastructure of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Not for Varazdin, not just for Slavonski Brod, not just for Zagreb, etc. The national programme of railway infrastructure which you also had the opportunity to see here, discuss and adopt the weight of 18 billion kuna, of which 12 billion kuna of direct financial investment in the railway infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia is also prepared in a way that the basics and backbones of the investment is reduced to corridors and connections to the Adriatic ports and ports on the inland waterways. It is the only way to build the future of our freight carrier, which already has a 9 per cent share in the total transport of goods in the Republic of Croatia. And finally allow me another sentence to say about the Law on the Railway Safety Agency. It will create a legal framework to form an independent body responsible for the safety of rail transport that will help better monitor the safety management system in the railway sector. We are in line with this law with Directive or the European Union Railway Safety Guidelines 49 of 2004. Finally, I would like to say that three amendments have been tabled with this law, which we will show ourselves about when we vote, namely one amendment will be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17388	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Break till 3:00. At 3 p.m., we will proceed with the agenda item Internal Affairs Minister's report on police affairs. I want everyone comfortable. Fifth, Final draft law on the Railway Safety Agency, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 154. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the HSS Representatives' Club and the SDP Representatives' Club. I'm asking the motionary's representative to Mr Branimir Jerneic, State Secretary. Here you go. This is the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17390	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17391	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Second, Article 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17392	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17393	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The third amendment is to Article 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17394	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17395	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17396	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17397	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And finally the SDP Representatives Club on Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17398	The amendment is not accepted. The Agency for the Safety of Railway Traffic for its Business shall be responsible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, in accordance with the law. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall appoint members of the Board of the Agency and, accordingly, they shall submit a report to the body designated by them on their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17399	On behalf of the club, Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17400	The President-in-Office is therefore the establishment of a Railway Safety Agency which is an independent and independent public institution here. Such are HERA in the field of electricity. That's the Agency for Electronic Communications. The fact is, between Articles 2 and 5, there is no... The fact is that there is no directive between Articles 2 and 5, so there are no articles that comply with European regulations. [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]] So it's about the legislative systems of its own country. So in certain countries this system is presidential. It's in a certain prime minister's office. He's the way he is with us. So also in Article 6 where we are asking for this report to be submitted since it is about the regulatory national agency and the highest home of this country to the Croatian Parliament and by respecting extremely high insecurity in transport. So we're facts and we're witnessing various car accidents that have been happening, and so we think it's important that we take the debate here and that this report comes to debate here. And as a contribution to that, I'm just going to say that we all witnessed together yesterday a long-term debate here on rail safety. And I appeal because at least 20 of them have shown great interest in the safety of rail transport yesterday, at least then I ask them to vote in favour of this amendment so that we can discuss this security once a year when that report comes. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote with hope. that those who disputed and supported. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17401	Thank you very much. Who's for this amendment, Mr... From the SDP Club? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law on the Railway Safety Agency. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Restraint? I find that most votes; 102 votes in favour, against 2 and with 5 abstentions, have adopted the draft law on the Railway Safety Agency together with the amendments adopted. Gentlemen, we're starting work. We move to the point - Internal Affairs Minister's report on police performance Proposer: Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. The Minister of the Interior submitted this report on the basis of Article 7. The law of the police. The proposal for an act was sent to you by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Home Secretary, Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17403	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on police as Home Secretary has been filed by this honorable House by a written report on police conduct. This report covers 2007 and the first five months of this year. The report is an objective demonstration of events and occurrences in the field of security, but of course only in the field of work and the work of the Croatian police. I am convinced that this House respects the fact that security is a broader concept, that in the preventive part of this area, many authorities of the state administration, institutions, legal persons, families, individuals work or need to act. In the field of detecting and processing of criminal offences, other than the police, the judicial authorities also act and participate in the broad and narrow sense of the word. I believe that the report in question objectively and exhaustively dissipates the state and movement of certain forms of crime during the observed period and represents a real person for an objective assessment of the state of security in our country. The decline in the number of criminal offences reported in 2007 compared to 2006 by 6.41%) and the continuation of this positive trend in the first five months of this year compared to the same period last year by 7.4% and the constant retention of the percentage of criminal resolution at 65-67%, places the Republic of Croatia at the top level of the security of European countries, and our capital is one of the safest European metropolis. Of course, the situation can always be better for us in the Croatian police, the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian government will never tell us that we will not do everything possible to make these results even better. But I am fully aware of the fact that certain crimes such as murders, beatings, etc. in public creates a momentary and enhanced sense of uncertainty. I consider it a normal human reaction to the events they've seen, events they may have experienced, an event they've heard about. What our public needs to know, although it is often forced by other conclusions, that the resolution of such crimes cannot be expected in a short period of time. Resolve these crimes requires a lot of field work, gathering a number of information and assembling these tiny pebbles into a large mosaic solving the crime. Of course, the active cooperation of the damages and victims of the crime, the provision of legal and legal and complete and timely information and the assistance of citizens as possible eyewitnesses, from a great help in resolving each individual offence. It is our task to do everything to detect the real perpetrators and their employers if the circumstances of the crime refer to them which, with sufficient evidence, would be forwarded to the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia for further action. It is very important here to say, for the sake of the Croatian public, that there are no crimes committed during some earlier period and on which the Croatian police do not work. So here I will say that even today, Croatian police officers are working equally actively on some equally sound criminal acts, beatings that have been committed. For example. Mr. Bozo Prka in September 2002, Mr. Ante Simleša on January 9, 2003, Mr. Denis Kuljiš in November 2003, Mr. Čaleta December 2003. Although these crimes have not been resolved to this day, I am here in front of parliamentary representatives and in front of the Croatian public responsiblely saying that police officers continue to work to shed light on these crimes with the intention that perpetrators and employers with sufficient evidence should be taken to the Croatian judiciary for further processing. The special area of security and the work of police officers I have assessed to deserve the attention needed in this opening address is the area of road safety. I am going to say openly here that unfortunately all of us road users are slightly neglecting or looking at this area as someone else, unfortunately very often with the wrong eyes. People who would never think of committing an offence, let alone some crime, knowingly or unconsciously violate the provisions of the Road Traffic Safety Act, completely forget the fact that here they can cause more serious and lasting consequences than in a large number of crimes that we sometimes perceive as socially illicit behavior. But the new law is in initial application, it's still too early to make any firmer conclusions, but on us, traffic participants are left with the possibility of being respected today even when there are no police officers nearby. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let a few words say about our main problem in work, and that is currently an insufficient number of police officers. We're equipped today with the most temperate police technique. We respect and work with the most modern methods that all European and world police are doing. However, the current number of police officers is insufficient. Not now entering the causes of individual decisions in previous times, the fact is that we were faced with the interruption of the continued reception of new young police officers. Going to a well-deserved pension called The war generations of Croatian police officers and insufficient fill-up with the shutting down of the Central Police School have created an objective problem for us in our work. That is why I am convinced that the process will begin with a tender for the reception of 1200 police officers in 2007 and 1400 this year will give the expected good result. Respecting this technical equipment and the application of new technologies, I repeat, the basics of prevention are, however, the direct work of a police officer on the ground, on the Croatian road, in Croatian cities and Croatian villages. I am convinced that the systematic and consistent management of both personnel and material potentials in this ministry will give a good final result, while the objective opportunities and results of the work of the Croatian police will be at the top of the European level. Support and objective and analytical thinking and conditions and the causes of this situation can only bring us closer to our goal. That's why I'm proposing to this House of Commons to accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17404	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17405	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. I would correct the wrong assumption that this report is objective and as it is said, an exhaustive dismembering is actually the work of the police. It can immediately state that there are neither the number of murders nor those security events, there is no distribution and crime, we do not know what is happening in other police administrations but later I will be able to explain it but using exactly the argument about the downfall of the number of crimes but I must warn Mr. Minister that, apart from the police administration of Istria and then the second worst according to his criteria of criminal acts of Sibenik Zagreb, nevertheless in the third place by the number of criminal acts per 100,000 inhabitants, we cannot tell everyone in this work that it is the safest city, or the safest metropolis in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17406	It's, it's a valuable claim, one claim on another claim. And I'm going to ask the MPs as they report for corrections to the wrong quote, to state, to correct that and that false allegation. You said this, I say that. It's a correction to an incorrect quote, the rest could be replicas. Let's move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17407	Thank you. Respect once again for all Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the report by the Minister of the Interior on the performance of police affairs as a parent body. In his opening statement, Mr. Minister of the Interior noted that increased police work and good co-operation with the state's attorney's office were visible from the report. Also, as far as the state of security is concerned, it is evident that the number of crimes being prosecuted and under official duty and such acts in 2007 was 6.41% lower than in 2006. As one of the major problems, he pointed out the lack of police officers on the ground who represent the primary prevention of crime, and the same is that the reception and education of new police officers is ongoing and ongoing. A small number of accidents have been reported for the state of security and traffic on the roads, but with a higher number of people killed, he noted that it is not possible to accept the attitude of citizens to follow the law only when a police officer is behind them. What I can also point out from this debate is that different views have been made, on the one hand, that the report is comprehensive, complete and quality and that there is a visible reduction in crime, but also investment in equipment and personnel, and the other point of view suggests that there is no way to accept the above mentioned in the report as if nothing dramatic was happening because the entity does not feel the security of citizens shows the opposite. It also expressed its opinion that structural changes as well as better staffing are necessary. Not to repeat from an individual debate, you have all received this written material on your benches, but what is important and what is pointed out is that the picture of the public on the work of the police in view of certain actions dealing with corruption and organised crime is given in some way priority without sending positive messages on the work and quality of police work. I would also just point out that in the discussion it is precisely about the media that they are creating a perception of security, that is, the uncertainty that they often call the police because of brutality and that they rarely appeal to citizens to respect their obligations. As regards these allegations, the minister, in the opening statement of reasons relating to too few officers on the ground, pointed out that there is an urgent need to re-establish what is relevant to these requests, Mr Minister replied that the structural management project of personnel carried out in cooperation with the French Republic is under way. At the end of most of the votes, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security adopted a report by the interior minister on police affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17408	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17409	President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, in order to assess as objectively as possible the report of the Minister of Interior in the performance of police affairs, it is necessary to look at the system of the Ministry of Interior with all its essential definitions as well as analyse the processes and development of the system itself. Keeping in mind, and in line with the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Interior has carried out a number of measures and activities aimed at improving the efficiency and promotion of its activities on the way of the creation of the Croatian police, which is of course permanent at the service of citizens. In the context of the implementation of the Police Action Strategy in the Community proactive, instead of the reactive action of OSCE missions in the Republic of Croatia, the main OSCE Office in Vienna rated the Croatian model as the most successful in the region. As part of this process, 970 police officers were trained, information centres for prevention in Zagreb, Varazdin, Bjelovar and Karlovac were established. At the level of the unit of local self-government, 29 prevention councils and other significant projects were formed. A strategy for integrated border management with the Action Plan and the Schengen Action Plan has been adopted in the area of strengthening the security of the state border. The Law on the Control of the State Border has been amended, a mobile unit for the exercise of state border surveillance, which is very successful at the border itself, but also in the depth of the territory, performs its tasks. Cooperation agreements have been developed to monitor the state border with neighbouring countries as well as contracts for the surrender and acceptance of persons on the illegal stay in the Republic of Croatia. All of this has contributed to better control of the state border and a significant decline in the number of persons found in the illegal crossing of the border. In the area of raising police standards and respecting collective contract rights over the past years, nearly 460 million kunas have been paid for interest and the main outstanding claim of employees by court because they did not respect collective contract rights in the period 2001 to 2004. The MAP invested significant funds in IT equipment, technology, procurement and... 2,000 cars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Introduction of a new digital radio communications system... Introducing a new system for automatic fingerprint identification,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and a citizen reporting system has also been introduced through SMS messages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A programme of secondary education for the occupation of a police officer has been developed and has been launched to complete around 1400 students. While a new generation of 1400 students is currently under way, the school will end in 2009. The reform in police education was to be implemented for the reason that a high-school police school was abolished in 2002 and a nearly completely neglected police education system at the Police Academy. In parallel with this, over 3,000 police officers were placed at the disposal of the then government, which significantly destroyed the police system and the security system in the Republic of Croatia. The consequences of such management of human potentials are still felt today. One of the strategic priorities of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the MUP is to approach membership of the European Union. The Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia negotiates for Chapter 24 – justice, freedom and security before the opening. So far, more than 50m euros have been agreed from the pre-accession European Union funds used to educate and strengthen human capacities, institutional strengthening, but also to obtain the necessary techniques for performing police work. Police officers of the Republic of Croatia's MUP are essential factors and international security mainly through participation in peacekeeping missions from Kosovo, eastern Timor, Cyprus, Afghanistan, Jordan, Haiti etc. for which they are particularly praised by the receiving countries, but also by international institutions and associations in whose missions they have worked. All listed to a lesser or greater extent affects the state of security in the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia during the observed period of 2007 and in the first five months of 2008, we note the decline of reported crimes in the general criminality segment, drug abuse, economic crime and organised crime. However, more police activity in the detection of criminal offences and perpetrators has been reported in parallel with this. It is especially important to highlight the great resolution of the most serious crimes such as the crimes of murder. The overall resolution of these crimes was over 90% between 2001 and 2007, and over 96% in 2007, with some previous-term murders being solved. Organized crime is part of the crime that every police force and the police of the Republic of Croatia must pay special attention. Although the total number of acts in the organised crime chapter falls, special attention during the course of the proceedings is focused on the repression of the forms of criminal offences involving groups or criminal organisations. A number of activities have been highlighted in the repression of these acts related to the smuggling of persons, trafficking in human beings, production and smuggling of weapons, tobacco products, counterfeiting of money and smuggling of motor vehicles. In an analysis of the state of crime in the Republic of Croatia, it is essential to highlight information on trends in some other European countries. In 2007, police officers totalled 65%, 76% of crimes, which speaks of the effectiveness of primarily criminal police while data for other countries are as follows: Denmark 17%, Belarus 55.4%, Germany 34.3%, France 19.42%, etc. For the sake of real comparativeity and the extent of crime among certain countries, the crime rate in Croatia in 2007 was 1673 crimes on 100,000 inhabitants, while the figure in Denmark was 6816 crimes, in Belarus in 1936, in Germany 7647, in France 6103, in Italy 4740 etc. By observing data at crime rates, it can be concluded that the Republic of Croatia is one of the safest countries in Europe. One of the important segments of every society and also Croatian is the safety of road traffic. The security of road traffic in the Croatian Republic's MUP paid great attention. Statistics show that there was an increase in the number of road safety indicators during 2007. These indicators should be observed through an increase in the number of newly registered vehicles by over 100,000 and about 20,000 mopeds and motorcycles. Of course, the number of drivers increased by about 45 thousand and 18% in the summer months. These trends were partly continued during 2008 with a reduction in easy and severely injured persons, but unfortunately with an increase in the number of fatalities. Of course, this requires the need for additional engagement of all the competent ones in order to find a solution to the better situation. It is equally expected that the application of the new Road Safety Act and its consistent application by police officers and other bodies of the state administration, interested entities, as well as judicial authorities will bring greater discipline to traffic participants and a more favourable state of security. From all of the above, it follows that all the fundamental indicators of the state of security in the Republic of Croatia are moving within the 10-year average, that most trends record positive shifts, that the Ministry of Interior and Police system is particularly focused on those segments that show negative trends, which is road safety, which is why it has proposed certain solutions through the Road Safety Act adopted by this House. It should be concluded that the state of security and statistical indicators in the Republic of Croatia are moving within the framework of the state of security of the European Union countries. Furthermore, it follows from all of this that the Ministry of the Interior system is making efforts together with other competent services to improve the state of security in all its elements. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club accepts and will accept this report by the minister on the state and on the work of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17410	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17411	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Five months ago, the SDP club called for a debate on this subject, referring to Article 7. The law on police, which is that the Minister of Home Affairs is obliged at least once a year, will now mention the word to the Croatian Parliament of Representatives a written report on police affairs. Why do I mention House of Representatives? Because it is only clear how long this provision has been in place and after the end of the existence of the House of Representatives is so old, this is the first time that we are in a position to face the situation in the Croatian Parliament to report. Therefore, we are talking about, regardless of who is in power, it is obvious that it is not pleasant to come and actually face what needs to be discussed on a regular basis and it is a security situation in the Republic of Croatia. We felt that the security situation in the Republic of Croatia was significantly worse and that was why we launched the initiative, and unfortunately it was not a legal assumption, but we had to collect the signatures, but more than one third of the parliamentary representatives to do so on the agenda and then we saw in what way that point was actually treated, but finally here, we are now in a position to talk about it, so I am not going to waste time on the explanation that actually the railway is breaking out of Medvednica, which systems we all have to serve in order to come to terms, so that we can really talk about something that I think should be of first interest to all, regardless of the political colors and where we should talk about something where I will try it in one sentence, I am absolutely sure that we have every citizen of the Republic of Croatia interested in having the best police regardless of which government at that moment. What's important in the introduction is in my report that I have to say that I couldn't agree at first, and that is, there are exactly those figures that would support these lines, which is the prevalence of crime, the lack of numbers on the number of murders, the lack of numbers on confiscation, the lack of anything that could in some way and the parliamentary representatives could help keep or praise such a report and give them an objective picture. However, the most important priority in countering crime is listed and there is a special emphasis on organised crime, corruption, drug abuse, juvenile crime, domestic violence, violence against minority and vulnerable groups. It is there that lies the biggest problem of what we have been listening to lately and in the previous debate we could hear, which is commendation for the downfall of the number of crimes. I think there's the biggest trap, everything we're talking about, and that's a decline in the number of criminal cases, and it doesn't necessarily have to mean better security. That's what I'm trying to keep saying because at the moment when we have a 4.72 in economics for 19.95, in juvenile 7.31, in an organised fall of 6.99, it says that police don't get in enough of the dark area of crime, and that's the area in which police work can actually be assessed best. Here lies the problem of what we should be satisfied with, absolutely yes, by falling the number of crimes, but we must not be satisfied with what the number of acts in the dark area of crime falls precisely in what is put into the report as a priority, and that is how standards regularly measure police efficiency. As regards the consequences of the non-selective structure of the 2002/2003 mandate. The year that produced a major personnel deficit, as well as the abolition of the Central Police School, I have to mention it in one way only to make it very bad, if it takes six years to actually wait, if something was possibly seen as a mistake to correct it, it's unacceptable. And secondly, the abolition of the Central Police School has never been made, but a new situation has already been made, and this means requalification for the occupation of a police officer, in a way that instead of a police academy, in terms of boarding and arriving in a semi-military militarized system, a man achieves a general culture, a general education in high school, ends at that time a military term, then undergoes health exams and goes to a one-year situation, requalifications, ie education for the occupation of a police officer, what he does today. So that thing stays regular. About the number of people who left the Ministry of the Interior at the time, I will only specify one piece of information, which is that, of the 2,500 officers we had in the special police force, 330 of them were reformed in 2002, all the others were turned into blue, intervention police officers based on what day they help and work on me as one of the best solutions to police administrations on the ground. He also plays with statistics numbers very often knows how to fool. The other day I was able to listen to Mr. Buconjic's State Secretary, who says we have an average of 50,000 crimes in Croatia, Mr. Minister says we have 75 thousand 875, the minister says that the fall of 6.8 or 6.4 is the state secretary on TV talking about a 10% decline. So I think it's easy to get into these statistics even though it's very clear that statistics and naked statistics themselves will not create a better or better impression of the police. In the first five months of this year, as we can see, we have an additional drop in most of these parts of which I was talking about the dark area of crime. What I want to point out is precisely because of Mr. Minister some illogicalness which should be corrected why the law on police should be amended. We have a situation today that the minister submits a report for a period during which he was not a minister but much more important than that he actually submits a report on the conduct of police affairs done by the chief police director and the minister as a political person should not, in fact, be the figure to give an assessment of such a situation and I think it will be necessary to do exactly what the chief police directors and police directors or chief of police become persons who do not depend on the will of any governing structure but to be as we have the director of the anti-intelligence agency or head of headquarters in a way to be elected to office. If he has rights and responsibilities, that means he chooses the personnel he needs to do all his work. What's evident is that it's actually exactly humanizing where the minister is taking part or even the Prime Minister's replacement. The question arises as to why the commissioners are being replaced if the results are good. In fact, we did not get that answer, so in Sisak we had a situation that the public did not even know that we had no chief of police administration for three months and that in fact he who was appointed as chief of police administration in Zagreb, as it was later said that he was only a temporary solution. In the criminal police, now the anniversary, or year, that we don't have the head of the criminal police sector. The FBI is talking about a very, very precise unit that should be specialized and that there is no person on her forehead who should be. And all the time when it's actually looked at, that's exactly the kind of personnel resistance, that's the part of the problem I think it's creating additional problems and confusing the police, and I'm sure it's causing problems for people who need to do these jobs. In an attempt to give a positive shift, the goal here is to discuss how to fix the security variant. In that regard, we actually performed, and we want to talk about it. We have 60 agencies that sort of represent a repressive apparatus. I can't count them all now because I'd lose time for this debate, but what's evident is that there are no coordinators or there's no person who would be over those agencies, all those inspectors, or anyone who's doing business that's certainly contributing or their work doesn't contribute to security in this country. For this reason, it is precisely the place of the Deputy Prime Minister or the person in charge of national security that should give a new step, or something that would make the situation better in coordinating all those agencies involved. The basic factors that enhance the work of crime are primarily negative social factors. That's what makes it clear to anyone who's actually looking at the reasons for the increase. And what I think is one of the main causes that is happening with us is the absence of general criminal prevention. That means a person who even gets caught or gets caught doesn't necessarily mean he's going to experience a judicial epilogue. And that's why even the cops give up their own job, because the person they report for two days is lucky on the street, and this one literally threatens them so that at that point that this absence, which means punishing and bringing justice, really has an additional impact on the quality of police work with the right epilogue. It is good that, although it is now trying to mention that these developmental processes that started with the 2000, 2002, since criminal and intelligence analysis, the TETRA, AFIS, the Department of Cyber Crime, the Ethics Code, the 2001 Department of Special Criminal Affairs, which is a pretext of the story of today's unit that is popularly called the FBI, then the functions of Interpol 24/7, the adoption of the Witness Protection Act, the police in the community, the crime of prevention. All this together is good to continue, it's done by police officers, I repeat, no matter the power. This is about the answer, because during the time I was headmaster, there were no days when I wasn't asked about the murder of Levar, the destruction of the monument of folk heroes, or any other event that was made public at that time. This is kind of attributed to a certain government, which is completely wrong because I hope these cases have not happened during the conduct of one, second or third minister, are not cases that need to be forgotten or tied to a particular political option. So I hope that those 28 unsolved mob murders before 2000, and these four beyond that, I hope they have the same treatment and that it won't be forgotten. I also have to mention in the report that one of the examples of how it actually skips and you're trying to be given one segment. There's an "Fenix" action set out there as the only one that's actually listed as a special operational action. Here you see, let's say, it's been going on since 2000, then 373 possible locations were explored by 2003, 148 exhumed, 267 bodies were removed, and 298 were found not to confirm the existence of postmortem remains. I don't know why it's singled out, I have to be honest, I guess for some reason, but it's probably the minister who's going to explain it to us. What I think is important, and I will later be able to respond to this, a global strategy to combat organised crime is based on the confiscation of property benefits acquired by criminal acts, the repression of corruption, the penetration of criminal associations and criminal intelligence. These very last things are missing from the Croatian police. I think it is a problem and it is something that should be seen as a well-intentioned message, which is that this kind of breakthrough can make a significant step forward in terms of the conduct of the Croatian police. What's true, which is that only 1% of criminal acts arouses the public's interest. But by solving these 1% Croatian police will strengthen their reputation, there will be a situation where the assessment of the state of security can then be said that it is never good enough that it cannot be better, but at that point we can say that the situation is satisfactory. The naked police statistics themselves, I will repeat, about crime will not convince citizens of the good state of security, and what is very important to me and, as an example, to try to avoid this political story, right in the 2004 programming guidelines until 2007, better not to read because it says nicely that the Ministry of the Interior needs to be rationalized, that we need to sum up and that we have 10-15% more police officers. I hope you know who signed those programming guidelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17412	Thank you. We have an amendment first. Mr. Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17413	Here, counterpart Ostojić said that the minister was not comfortable coming out of this House and alluding that the point was treated as well and that therefore there was no open debate on this report. The climate is also created to avoid debate. And the truth is it's 9.7. This report was sent to the Croatian Parliament and was not scheduled until 24.9th session of the Committee on National Security with a agenda debate on the report of the Minister of the Interior, the conduct of police affairs, which is a prerequisite that a plenary session can discuss this point at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17414	Thank you. Correction number two. Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17415	Thank you very much. Well, a well-respected colleague misstated, I quote, "the security situation in the Republic of Croatia has deteriorated because the decline in the number of crimes does not mean better security." But he didn't look at page 15 in Appendix 1, not the number of crimes, but the percentage of the resolution of crimes, which is proof of the success of police work. So let me remind him what it says. For the murders, the rate of crimes resolved by 20007 per 2006 increased by 5.5 per cent. The percentage of resolved outlaws increased by 5.2%. The percentage of resolved alienation of motor vehicles increased by 3.3%. So let's not abuse statistics, she's inexorable here, and she points to better police work than you're showing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17416	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17417	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Benko, gentlemen of the Parliament. It is clear to me that this debate will pretend that it as such and turns into a controversy, whose police structure is better, is it from 2000 to 2003 or from 2004 to 2008? Let me tell you right now, it wasn't a good one, it wasn't this one. It is also clear that everything will turn into a controversy, is Croatia a safe country or are we an insecure country? I say immediately I will answer this other question, that we are still a safe country. However, I dare say that even the number one Croatian problem is not the efficiency or ineffectiveness of the Croatian police, it is a huge problem, but the number one Croatian problem lies in the inefficient and unworthy Croatian judiciary, and when it comes to normal war crimes and compromised politics. For a moment in this country, when it starts, I don't know "Index", "Peace", "Maestro", "Grunotovci" etc. Man thinks, well, there's something going to be, when after 15, 16, 17, 18 months, all these people see that they're free. It is also clear, Mr. Minister, that this detention in Croatia cannot be turned into a prison sentence, but it says that often the police and the State's attorneys may care more about some spectacle, but rather about the work done. I dare even say that this Index was on its way at the time when the Constitutional Court, in the case of the tape, released several more finally all indictees. In one word, I guess that's what happened so that the anger of Europe wouldn't collapse or collapse to the State's Attorney's Office, so it meant something had to be done, but this is now the problem of the attorney's office not the police, but the problem of our State's Attorney's Office is something else. Notifying journalists to attend the very act of arresting, bringing in an investigative judge, and so on. You can't do that. I claim what happened recently, it's corruption a couple of exellance corruptions, especially if the news only goes to one media house. Why? And at the end of the day, 80% of those who are dedicated to the media to incredible attention whose careers may have been ruined, are then released and so on. The truth of corruption is all present. When it happened in the judiciary, as I know, from criminal failure to the assignment of tourist land from Istria to Dubrovnik, it even dared us to say it wasn't so bad, when the corruption occurred in health care, you ignored it, when it happened in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, regardless of what some cars were flying into the air, we'll say it, but now this last one in the case of the university, it kind of freaked us out not because of this systematicity as the media describes us, as much as the fact that almost all the institutions of this society are affected by this plague. From the judiciary means to the executive authority, from public companies what I know to health care, from local self-government to administration, from the police maybe even to the State's Attorney's office, although I assure you that it is not spared public television, or the media, or civil life associations, unfortunately, or a good part of the citizens who are clearly willing to give something to get something also across the line. So it's her that always needs two to dance. Of course I'm talking about segments, I'm not talking about globally, but where the police are here and where in that case the safety of Croatian citizens is. Four beatings have been mentioned lately. I dare say that we are even good, that good that some maniac, like recently in Finland, doesn't fall into some class and that's where he kills ten of our students as long as there are weapons left behind from the Homeland War in our homes. And on the other hand, we see that Finland, I guess one of the least corrupt countries in Europe, clearly the case of "Patria" has taken the Janša out of power, we'll see what's going to come out of it. Finland is probably one of the richest countries on the globe, it's socially one of the most sensitive, it's one of the most tolerated of other nations, etc. And yet it's the second case of such a mass deprivement of life in Finland, it's in England, it's in Germany, and in America it looks like a good morning. We have four cases of these beatings, the result is always about the same, but the leads and the orderlies are somehow different. The Miljuš case, there's obviously a victim. He's been beaten. Why? For man hath come to a man by his writing, and it is a shame that unto this day these perpetrators are not revealed. If he had slept with the underworld, and there was one among the journalists, journalists, that he had haired the facts probably wouldn't have happened to a man. But he was his own. The case of Radjenovic, says I read one of his statements, says, my family has lost 50 kilograms in the past few months, and says my client enjoys wealth, and Zagreb roads all remain in the same positions, and apparently, the police know better than I do, and you know who he's alluding to, and the expert now says, there's been an easy physical injury, and it's still well gone by Radenovic that he's not himself in half a day, someone's going to say, beat up with some rod, etc. The Galinec case, the truth man was beaten and he was half-white days, probably the batinators wanted to show that for them there was no difference day, night, I don't know where he came from, I have a story about that case, because when that same Galinec with 30, 40 guards despite the judgment of the Municipal and County Court in Pula, he broke into the Long Cove Hotel as a cowboy, they all kept quiet, then they changed the locks like we were in the Wild West, occupied one tourist facility or I don't know what to call it, a settlement, and no one, and nothing. And that's why I don't know in this case I'm a little booked. It is true, as the minister said, that these beatings have been undetected since 2002 or the third year. I don't know Chalet, etc. I would also dare say that regardless of the efficiency of the Croatian police has never impressed me, that perhaps even more has been done since 2004, here, than by 2003, regardless of these wartime years, etc. etc. For the war almost it was normal in this country, I don't know a Serbian raised house in the air on the loose were the Rabbit family murderers released. We have a unionist case in this house. Killers from the Paki plain may have been walking around free today that no one was doing anything and that I was not counting further, and when I expected that something would happen after 2000, nothing happened. Of the 3,000 destroyed Partisan monuments, clearly, there is no need to spend a word of it even though everything is known who did it, but the police don't want the perpetrators to find out, I don't know, the public. What happened then? I think that's when the people at the Ministry were in 2000 scared, scared. The underworld was never more carefree than it was then. We were saying we had the best chief of police because he wouldn't let anyone get arrested. The system didn't work inside the police, and why? That's what I'm gonna say. In those three, four years underground, war profits legalized a good part of the job. Today, they upgrade it quite clearly, and no one can put an end to it. Why didn't the system work? Because then, I don't know, we all preferred each other. We couldn't even solve Gotovina's case with an ad act. And had we not had the president of the state a question, President Mesic, what would have happened? The police were then one big HDZ machine and today it is. The workers then obstructed the leadership of police who unfortunately failed to impose their authority. And that's the biggest problem for the police yesterday, but it looks like it's going to be the biggest problem for the police tomorrow. And that's why you need one maximum professionalization. If we have a man, I absolutely don't call anyone, at the head of a police force that can't, he shouldn't be Sarkozy, impose his authority on the police will be a bit of a guide. And employees in that police force will be more unions, more involved in their social and other rights, absolutely they should have the best standard possible, than they will deal with the situation on the ground. The soldiers in this country see it, they will accept every civilian as head of the army and it will operate almost impeccably in Croatia, but the chief of police must be more than a civilian and more than just providing money for his employees in the state budget. I haven't run since 2004, a few big jobs have been done here. Cash, even Zagorac, which would be best if I put it that way to be a penitent and somehow find out where all that money was going, so who was using it? How are the roads the same? And so on. We believe that we will also get answers to those questions asked by Ferdinand Jukic, I don't know, about those diamonds that he allegedly said the former cardinal delivered to the president of the state who were certainly in possession of Jews who died in the Holocaust and so on. But let me go to this report now. On page 5, there is a resolution of the crimes where it is said that there is a resolution of as much as 65.76% in Croatia. It is more than in Germany, more than in any such European country. But what worries is the reporting of drug crimes Mr. Ostojic spoke of, minus 4.72% compared to 2006 and is increasingly in the country of drugs. Or 7 thousand 952 cases, in one word, I guess by that progress the more drugged the less reported it is. For corruption minus 19.95% compared to 2006. For organised crime minus 6.99% compared to 2006. That was in 2007, and in 2008, I'm talking about this report in those five months, that, that trend is still present. In drugs, the decline was 22.3% compared to 2007. In organised crime, 37.4% fell, but therefore the increase in economic crime and corruption reporting plus 28.7%. That's three thousand 18 cases in five months. It's not that small, by the way. If we go like that, I don't know, there'll be 7,000 applications by the end of the year. It's an impression in public when we watch TV that banks rob everything at 16 and the drop is 70%. Of course we should talk about that and so on. There's also a fall in burglary. Negative 13.4%. The drop in the robbery is down to 13, 11.3%. Clearly, one such case is too much. They're down and stealing minus 7%. So these are also works, we have to admit, which by the logic of things are reported. There can be no statistical errors. She's zero. So the robbery, the burglaries, the thefts are in decline, and the crimes against life and the bodies are growing, and it's clearly scaring too. Now, is it because of several cases of beatings and Croatia's insecure country needs to be solved. I claim that we are not yet threatened by violence but that there is organised crime in Croatia, that it is increasingly networked. It's also a big truth. It is also clear that it should be fair that these qualifications are constantly, Croatia is a terribly insecure country, a country that is 20% of gross social products derived from tourism, gentlemen I assure you. Why is this increase in crime the largest in Istria, Zagreb and so on? Well, because these are the environments that have the greatest absorption power to attract the population. In one Zagreb, there are 5.6,000 people living in Zagreb annually. In five years it's 25, 30 thousand people. It's one of the new police that should be formed there. Of course there are always people here. All in all for the end, Mr Ostojić said that in Croatia some 60 agencies dealing with crime or against crime work. There are 32,000 people in one police force. In the secret police department, I don't know, two thousand. The security guard might have five, six, seven thousand, I don't know. We got an ex-cop here, officer. Every 50 people have one, one cop or intelligence. So by these numbers, Croatia should be the safest country in the world, and unfortunately we are not. But I'm still going to say the same thing, we're not a country that should be afraid for its own safety right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17418	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have two corrections. The first is Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17419	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of a colleague who was not based on anything in the report that we received in 2004 that there was a fall in general crime and crime. On the contrary, just the other way around. In all groups of general crime, there is an increase in these years and it would be good not to take for the base the previous year but rather to take a look at the trend. We heard the information last night in 2001. Two thousand 600 people were in prison. Four thousand seven hundred right now. So they're overcrowded in prisons. It's obviously not about the fall of crime, it's about the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17420	Thank you. Correction Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17421	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said the first incorrect quote. He says "it was almost normal in those times to raise the house of the Serb". Neither is it normal today, nor has it ever been a normal house for anyone, whether a Serb, whether a Croat or any other member of the national minority. So, to anyone. Second. It's not true that the police are HDZ's apparatus. It wasn't, it wasn't today. Maybe you're saying that from experience when you were in power from 2000 to 2003 when you put people in the police by political standards, so you put police chiefs without any police experience. So it's your experience obviously, but it's not true. Still, if it were true what colleague Cain... to go to the Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17422	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17423	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We're discussing last year's report on the work of the Ministry of the Interior. So, about the period during which the Home Secretary was Mr. Kirin. But we're discussing in the shadow of what's been going on since the beginning of this year until today. So, in the period of Minister Roncevic, it is inevitable. It may not be fairest to the report itself, but it is fair to those who chose us. Because those who chose us expect us to contribute to the security situation, the conditions of police work, the organisation of the police are improving. And in that sense, Mr. Minister, you and your associates when you were compiling this report, it would have been better if you hadn't started each chapter with a sentence as to what a decline in the percentage of the crime rate for this or that area. Because that's why, I'm telling you, as a partner in the ruling coalition, you set it up with statistics against the harsh facts that we experience every day. These harsh facts are true to the media for their own reasons, but it's another topic that we here in this House might also be able to discuss. But if I were in a situation, which I wasn't, but here I am now saying that as an agent I would like to receive a report from the MUP, then certainly that report should not begin with this drop in criminality so much in general crime, the fall in crime in the fight against corruption so much, the decline in crime as a percentage when it comes to drug abuse so much, etc. Why? Well, because it won't diminish the fact that we, which we all know more or less. Someone based on facts, someone based on intuition, someone based on experience, which is that in a series of these things the situation is not good. The fact that we have or we have to record some kind of decline in crime when it comes to intoxicating drugs and drug abuse, so it won't diminish the fact that unfortunately this situation is alarming in our society, no matter what type they're intoxicating any of it. He won't. And when we discuss next year's report, I'd like to simply have a report in which the police do what they do, when you send a police officer, you don't send it out armed to the members of Mr. Minister, but you send it, you don't send it well, you send it to the headmaster, you send it to the commander or commander or leader of the group. He sends him, directs him to a problem, to a source of crime and sends him armed with skills and technical means and powers he has, not statistics. And it turns out like we're armed with statistics and the police are fighting statistics against crime, so don't be angry that I can't be satisfied with the way you present it either. I know you didn't do it in a bad way, but it's not a good approach. A good approach is the one where we focus on the problems we have, and we do have problems. The fact is that what Agent Cain says is that police, like I said on the Committee on Internal Policy, record a rise in professionalism, record an increase in efficiency, record and increase of a better structure. But that's still not what we should have. And we're here to help you, to have everything you need at your disposal so you can have it. The fact that in certain areas, the number of unsolved crimes is particularly prominent, not only in the past year, but also still organised crime, corrupt crime, among ethnic incidents. Unfortunately, these are areas where some kind of still insufficient police powers are being maintained to deal effectively with the problems that exist. And now I'd like to say one more thing. And even in some cases, it's not about the police, it's about us. If we were by chance, and we weren't a coalition state, then we'd be the way the police are. But since it's the other way around, that we're a democratic state and democratically elected politicians, then the police are who we are. And each of us should consider both party and certainly different how much real influence it has, how much real interest it has in increasing the professionality, efficiency and ethics of the police in personneling and solving cases. Not only us MPs, but our colleagues, our fellow councilmen, our fellow chiefs, our colleagues and fellow mayors. It is an area where police should not enter, as it should not have entered the university, but had to be resolved by the regime of professional ethics and was to be resolved by the suspension regime of those who abuse the situation. But that goes for us, too. That goes for us, too. And here I'd like to say quite the end of something. When it comes to seeing a problem, some colleagues have shown that there is a problem. The public said there was a problem. I'm not talking about tabloids and their need to make problems bigger than they really are. Then reasonable people just say yes, this is our country, this is our people, these are our children. Let's go sit down and figure out a way to work this out. And that is why the SDSS's proposal will be that, with this report on which we will vote, we will adopt the conclusion that the government, within 3 months, submits a report on what specific measures have been taken to combat minor forms of conflict and crime, organised crime, interethnicly motivated conflicts and, of course, especially these forms of robbery that look and leave in some way the most dramatic images in the public and if we do so, and I think this government is capable of doing so. We are willing to vote for this report, but only if that conclusion is followed by a vote on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17424	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17425	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Director, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Contrary to what could be heard this morning in this assembly, the opinion of the HNS Club is that this is one of the most important topics this Assembly is discussing because it is one of the original reasons for the state to exist. If I didn't go too far in history and theory, believe me, one of the reasons for the existence and establishment of a modern state was to increase security, i.e. to reduce the uncertainty in society from Hobbs to here. Therefore, guaranteeing security and monopoly on the violence that the state has through the military and the police is one of the prerequisites for the functioning of each society and, of course, one of the fundamental reasons for the existence of the state and that is why we consider this topic, and through that, of course, this reflects on just one of our main tasks here in Parliament and in control of whether the state is working at all and whether it is doing its job at all. Security is measured in different ways, security is among other main factors in constructing feelings of social inclusion or exclusion. When you measure the sense of social exclusion, security is one of the key factors, and according to research in Croatia, the sense of social exclusion is growing, not falling. Therefore, it is also one moment or one factor that should be kept in mind and in my opinion in some way and this report itself, the way in which contributions are made to feeling insecure, not because of what it mentions in that report, but because of what it does not mention in that report. It is clear that in all things, especially in such an important matter as the issue of security in society, so the police and the interior ministry as one of the key segments of the executive government. And on the other hand, Parliament said it was a working dynamic relationship. We must have communication on what happens at least, insight into what is happening and how our executive authority in this case, how the Ministry of Interior, and then the police react to what is practically happening in society. And that is why it seems to me that this report, the way in which it shows the situation, pours out certain uncertainty because nowhere in any way, or even in the introduction of this topic by the Minister here in Parliament, does not mention what is on our minds and all the citizens of this country in mind when it begins to talk about the functioning of the police and security. And that's what happens in the case of Milush? What's going on in the case of Radjenović? What's going on in the Galinac case? What's going on in the Luke Ritz case? These are the topics that are now on our mind. What you have learned from what you have been doing or what you report for 2007, which in any way helps you or is the basis for solving Miljus-transmitters, Radjenović-transmission, Galinac-transmission, Ritz-murder. What have we learned? Is it possible to conclude from this that these cases will somehow be resolved? Until today, they're not solved. Nothing happened or at least the public knows nothing about it. What do we know, and somehow slowly and sinking into marginalization or oblivion, is very specific what in the case of Gasparac? You remember the case where police inspector Gasparac filed criminal charges against Mark Perkovic Thompson and the unknown perpetrators because of the emphasis of Ustasha symbols and inciting this type of iconography that was subsequently suspended. What happened? Yes, both the experience and the job and the statistics that you have listed, which is worked and described in this report, can draw some conclusion that such things will no longer happen. Whether there is some basis to say, that these cases will all be cleared up, they will be driven out to clean up the whole problem and the perpetrators will be identified or at least the suspects will be identified. In this report, there is no answer in any way whatsoever, any possibility that from what has been done so far in any way these cases are resolved, and believe me that is what creates a sense of uncertainty and that is what is reflected in research, a sense of social exclusion, these are concrete cases that destabilise society and, of course, create an atmosphere of uncertainty. And that's why it's important that the police also have the Ministry of the Interior have answers to those questions. Directly something that is a question, so I would say in the front row for the interior minister, and only secondary to the police is the issue of implementing the Index action at the Zagreb university. It's a question just for the minister because it's primarily a political issue. Allow me a few introductory sentences. What is the purpose of fighting corruption? One of the fundamental purposes of fighting corruption is to preserve institutions. So excluding those who, by their behaviour, operate on the basis of corruption rather than on the basis of the best interests of the institution, collapse and stability, integrity and social reputation of an institution. So that's why we're fighting corruption, not for those institutions to destroy. In order to destroy their reputation, their reputation among citizens is a relatively bad situation in terms of institutions. Therefore, in the case of the Index action, which aims to declare a fight against corruption at the university, and believe me, it is a safe area in which I, since I come from the university, am particularly sensitive. In its implementation, the Index action, where police were acting in bringing in university teachers and employees, primarily university teachers for whom it has not been clear yet and for whom it is not clear whether they will be charged, whether there is a reasonable suspicion that they are being charged, bringing them to journalists' cameras and journalists, has destroyed not only prominent people but also the university itself. All they can agree is that, of course, the university should have had these universities and only the university had to act before that and the various internal measures to act, it is a special debate. It's a debate that's not primarily for the interior ministry and the minister and the police. But the debate that is for the police is what the point is, which is why when we're so careful in all cases when it comes to suspicion of a war crime, that no one would be found guilty before the court condemns him or at least accuses him, why in the event of the arrest of university teachers by the police was done in front of journalists' cameras, published in the newspaper, of course, as far as the newspapers are concerned, surely, that they are interested and come everywhere they know that there will be something that sells the newspaper, we don't need to doubt it. So that's exactly why the Ministry of the Interior and the police's responsibility to stop it and that's not how it works. Because when you do it in front of cameras and publish it in newspapers, then you de facto people who haven't even been charged yet, you've convicted. You have condemned them through the public, you have condemned them by portraying them as people who are university teachers and at the same time corrupt. It may occur that in five minutes through the second door let them out, they will never wash their cheeks again. I don't need to explain it to anyone here and tell them, of course everyone at the Ministry of the Interior and the police knows it. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, why did you bring people in front of cameras? It is also an issue of the protection of institutions, it is also an issue of effective fight against corruption, not condemnation through cameras. I know and accept, of course, and I think it's a problem that there are low wages in the police department, that there is a problem with education. I'll be the first Mr. Minister and Mr. Director to fight with you together for better wages in the police, because I think it's important and contributes to security. It's something that needs to be done from here, too. We also know that it's hard for the police to consider the problem and the lack of functioning of the judiciary, the problems we have in the judiciary, and where the police do their job, and then the people who set up the other door come out. That's also the problem. And this problem should also be discussed here in the context of a police report. However, these topics, gentlemen of the government, need to be opened by you. We're opening them here because you didn't open them, but you have to answer these specific questions that we've asked you here. You must at least answer us what is from this report and your work that you described in the report that is before us, the basis to respond to the case of Miljus, the case of Radjenović, the Galinac case, the case of Ric, the case of Gasparac and the action "Index". In light of what I've brought here, unfortunately, the HNS club will not be able to support this report and will not accept this report on police work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17426	Thank you very much. At 16 and 17 minutes, it's past registration time, 10 minutes. We have a few corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17427	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague incorrectly said that the Index action is political issues. It is neither a political issue nor a political issue, it is exclusively the result of the work of institutions that are fighting corruption. The other thing is, the police are not responsible for publishing names or photographs in the daily press or I don't know any. It is also necessary to respect laws, and it is clear that those who are even editing that part, should take care that it is not good to publish the full names and last names of persons who are potentially suspects. They know that very well. There have been arrests in front of cameras and in your time and large arrests in front of cameras and publication of names, and there's even been a statement that the parties are under investigation, to remind you of that fact. So when it's incorrect that we're only interested in cases with the very respect of the victims to the gentlemen you've listed, we're interested in cases as well. And God of the Cross and all the others, and that's what we want to bring. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17428	Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17429	It's incorrect what my colleague said.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17430	Excuse me. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17431	Your Honor, Mr. President. Article 210 is injured, i.e. when someone from the agenda as you gave me a warning earlier, I would ask you to do the same to Mr Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17432	The greatest advocate of not admitting myself to anyone first place in front of me. I keep saying let's stick to the agenda. But obviously everyone has their own vision, which is keeping the agenda, right? But we'll try. Thank you very much. Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17433	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of a colleague who said the police are guilty of arresting people in front of the cameras who may not be guilty. Who proved the police guilty? And what if it wasn't the police? Could she have stopped the action or been able to join the arrest of journalists? And what would you say if the police had joined the arrest of journalists? I'm saying it's not the police's fault, so let's wait until the investigation is complete. And don't be a judge before court.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17434	Thank you. Mr. Boris Matkovic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17435	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the same applies to my correction to this assessment, or to my colleague Pusic's false claim that this action was conducted in front of photographers to accuse people of being questioned after 5 minutes to bring the police into question, etc. I argue quite the opposite of my colleague Pusic, which is that "Index" is the last in a series of anti-corruption actions and that it, like all previous ones, contribute essentially to the discouragement of corruption throughout society and that a total national loss of 6 billion after a certain period and actions that will be carried out or disappeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17436	Thank you. Correction Mr. Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17437	A colleague, Pusic, listed several cases that rightly excited the Croatian public and said nothing happened afterwards. That's incorrect. There's been police actions from informed conversations, search for perpetrators, of course, until the perpetrators, perpetrators, contractors, and when it's going to be dependent on a lot of things to match up for a case to be concluded. So the police are doing their job, and when they are supposed to be, the police can't work towards their feelings, but according to the law and what it means is that certain procedures are conducted at times faster and sometimes slower.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17438	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17439	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Director, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that I will seek to eliminate certain political content and objectively point to this content and report. At the beginning of our debate, we in HSS want first to commend all members of the police and civil servants and staff of the MUP as well as all those who care for the safety of the Republic of Croatia, its citizens and tourists in the tourist season, and we especially commend members of the police who participate in peace operations and other activities around the world. We believe that this report, which we are discussing satisfactorily, covers some important problems, challenges and tasks that the Ministry of the Interior is facing, and especially the police of the Republic of Croatia with the management and management structure as a whole. During our debate, we will look particularly at some perhaps open issues for the reason that we live in a time when a colorful range of security challenges or appearances from the police district should be opposed. Therefore, in itself, the need to adapt police capabilities and respond to new challenges is imposed. From the data presented in the report, it is evident that the police are doing well in the tasks set out in the police law and that it is also true that the police play a significant role in the security of the Republic of Croatia, but is not the only and most responsible for this situation. Namely, security depends on the behaviour of each individual, security and structure in the community, and all of them, together, and we through the debate today as well as tomorrow in everyday life can and we believe that we contribute to the increase but we are not sure whether this report fully covered the position and attitude of police affairs with other parts of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia. In the content of the report, we expected to process, or at least in more detail, some of the following issues concerning the development and exploitation of citizens' self-preservation, material and technical equipment, training, training and training, international cooperation, some preventive measures that we think should be implemented as well as disciplinary measures, and perhaps some other issues, because all of this has more or less impact on the state and strengthening of the police's overall ability to do their jobs. In the next report, we would like to see in statistical data, and we hope that there will be as few crimes as possible, especially for minors and children. We are particularly concerned about the increase in some crimes in 2007. We're thinking first of all about the category of criminal acts of minors. Murder in an attempt to see an increase of 200%, a physical injury and an increase of 274%, participation in a fight increases 200% as well. Due to frequent robberies and attacks on monetary institutions, banks, exchange offices, betting stations, gas stations, the question arises whether police are taking all necessary preventive measures in cooperation with the owners of these institutions to prevent the perpetrators from committing a certain robbery? We do not know what the Ministry of the Interior is doing to prepare for the organisation and exercise of civil-military character on the topic of combating terrorism, normatively and plannedly, this area. Because of the system's normative and planning irregularities in such exercises, workers who are not in the real situation will often participate in the training sub-positiones. Following the presented club, the HSS hopes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Ministry of Interior, in cooperation with citizens and relevant bodies, will achieve and maintain as high as possible the overall level of civil security in the coming period. Also, given the country's opportunities, no one can expect a radical turning point in a short period of time. However, the State is obliged to carry out and take all necessary activities and measures to achieve all security functions. The safety function must be effective. It must achieve a fundamental objective to achieve an adequate and as high a level of security as possible. It must rightly respond to modern security phenomena and eradicate them, prevent and prevent their harmful actions, as security is a key prerequisite for democratic economic development and for every improvement of the community. Given that the report is comprehensive in a satisfactory manner, as I presented in the introduction, the work carried out by the HSS Police Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17440	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go after the club show.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After the presentation of clubs, only a few briefer references to the views given by individual representatives of clubs. We did not arm ourselves with statistics but we submitted a report on the conduct of police affairs but I admit that statistics and an easy defence mechanism are against those attitudes that, from certain cases, as traumatic as they are, we were unwanted in trying to create a general negative picture of both the state of security in Croatia and the work of the Croatian police. I will only warn of the fact that the OSCE completed monitoring of the work of Croatian police in June last year because it has estimated that Croatian police have reached high professional standards and that it is completely depolitical. I cannot answer to the honourable parliamentary MPs, Mrs Pusic, what everything and specifically the police are doing in these 4 or 3 cases which are subject to her increased attention because it would thus endanger the results of the Croatian police's work on these cases so far. But I'll tell you only in harsh numbers that, in light of the circumstances of beating unfortunately the deceased Luke Ritz and Mr. Paul Babic, the police administration has conducted the processing of 62 people through its criminal officers so far. 41 recognitions have been made. That a number of polygraph tests have been carried out and that nearly 1100 informed talks have been conducted so far with citizens who might have knowledge. And so in every case. I will absolutely not respond to any additional measures here, regardless of what I know, because of this, I will not cause enthusiasm for you, but my job is to ensure that Croatian police officers are able to perform their jobs uninterrupted and even when demands come from such a respected and high place. The rule of the profession is here in the first place. As for Operation Index, a positive anti-corruption measure welcomed by all the Croatian public. The action was attended by police, USKOK, State's Attorney's Office and the County Court in the area when search warrants were issued for apartments, offices and cars. And I wonder why so much certainty that information about that action has come out of the line of police? I'm not pointing fingers at anyone. We're going to do a joint decomposition of this action. I agree that it could have compromised the investigation in her beginning. I totally agree with that, and it can't happen, but why is the finger going straight to the Croatian police officer? We're not sinless. We're not virtual cops and we're wrong, but we also sanction people who make mistakes. In 2007, the Ministry of the Interior conducted 600 tight procedures because of various suspicions that our officers committed either illegal acts or did not comply with the rules of the profession. Tell me, what government body had the strength to do the same? It's a Gaspar object. I repeat again. The suspension against police officer Mr. Gaspartz has nothing to do with Mark Perkovic Thomson's concert at Jelacic's square on 30 May 2008. You know very well who is the organizer of this concert and what the organizer has done to ensure public order and peace. But what he says is suspended because the competent authority has led him to suspect that he has sinned against the rules. He threw a chair at a college and acted inappropriately. Are you telling me that's why I should interfere with this strict procedure? Give a message that it can be done? We can have different attitudes, that's why a college is being held, but we can't throw chairs. This strict procedure has not yet been properly completed and I will not comment further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17442	Mr. Vujic, correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17443	I am correcting a precise incorrect quote, which Mr. Minister said the Index action was welcomed by the overall Croatian public. The "Index" action was not welcomed by the Senate of the University. The "Index" action did not, the President of the Republic commented that it was maestral. You know what that meant. The "Index" action was not supported by the person who at this time is leading to say Croatian negotiations higher than the Council of Europe. So this is not true. I don't support her and a good part of these clubs. He doesn't support a good part of the media except for those media who actively participated in it, Mr. Minister. I hope I can say more when I continue my own discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17444	So it is not necessary to support anything if it is in accordance with the law and it is irrelevant who supports who does not support something that is in accordance with the law. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's Mrs. Milanka Opačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17445	Well, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, you said here earlier that you were using statistics as a certain defence mechanism, and I think it would be much better for Croatian citizens and for all of us that you came here and sincerely talked about the problems of the security situation in the Republic of Croatia that are visible and that we should try to see together how to help to increase the security situation to a much greater degree than we have today. Security is not measured by statistics. It is measured by the fact that citizens feel safe or not, and it is evident that citizens don't feel safe and can't feel safe when every other or third morning you get caught by long pipes somewhere on a city bridge or some city street because a bank has been robbed or some post office. I can't feel safe if people get beat up in broad daylight in the middle of town. Last case before the Ministry of Economy. You know what people say? All they have to do is beat you in Mark's square in front of the government. The way we're going, that's not off. People can't be sure of what's going on among young people. Anyone who has a child really gets scared on Fridays and Saturdays when the kids go out because they don't know if the child will come home alive or come back in a coffin. On behalf of these children, on behalf of these parents, we are still a little more seriously obliged to approach this debate here today, because we have brought ourselves into a situation in this country to have someone kill your child on the road for a clean meal, for pure entertainment. I can't agree that it's normal and I can't agree to say that that's how it's part of some of our statistics, but it's not so much black. I can't agree with that. You also said organized crime that has literally been intact in this country for years. You said organized crime was called an inter-social relationship. Well, you know, organized crime gets people's heads down, the economy gets hurt, there's a lot going on in organized crime. After all, the country itself suffers because it is one of the biggest cancers of every country, and you call it an intersociety relationship. If that's what you call it, not the threat and danger of this country, then it's really hard to believe that you're willing to deal with that problem. Those who warn of an alarming situation in some segments so you call our security a politician. That's not a good approach either, Mr. Minister. That's not a good approach either! A good approach would be to come here and say let's go together and see what to do, and not immediately assign the label and say you're all politicians because you dared raise your voice and warn at all that we don't feel safe in this country. Well, we don't feel like it, Mr. Minister! We can't feel it. We don't feel as long as people who have been beaten just because they either wrote about organized crime or warned about some racketeeres, so some people who deal with criminal acts end up beaten up and no one is responsible for it. There are no responsible ones, and there are even fewer who have ordered them, who are the employers who make them all neatly. Today one, tomorrow the other. Maybe tomorrow someone's gonna get beat up too, 'cause he pointed a finger at someone. All these people say you're information from a girl in the system. And I ask you what the message is to Croatian citizens, because there is no fight against corruption or crime without cooperation with citizens. Which we sent to the citizens, to say something, point to something, you have a chance to lose your head. What do you think tomorrow someone will dare say anything? He won't. He won't. We create in this country a climate in which silence is only safe and only good. That way we can't solve the problems we have in the country, we just can't. Therefore, it is our task, or yours, because you are currently in power and because you are acting as Minister of the Interior to create all preconditions and to enable indeed all perpetrators of criminal offences to be found, not to create the affairs that were mentioned here earlier. I'm just going to mention here some very so you could say the indicative connection between some actions. For example, in 2006 when several days before the publication of a Report on Croatia's accession to the European Union, we had the spectacular arrest of Doctor Ognjen Simic in Rijeka. I must admit, it was a terrible thing to see a doctor being brought into handcuffs, also with the media, with media attention. So, 2 days before that report, Mr. Ognjen Simic, who is currently in the neighbouring state, was arrested. With the "Maestro" in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the government took action in June 2007 just before the European Council meeting in Brussels. It's very interesting that just then we responded to the action "Maestro" was also very pompous, the media, the police, the arrest of people. Today we have a situation that two prisoners have been released from prison that have sued the state in front of European courts, as things will go further, we will see. I'm afraid there's nothing going on either, but some people have been in jail for a year and a half, some of us have been publicized, as counterpart Pusic said and none of it is, but it's very interesting again before the meeting, so in Brussels. Afterwards, Mr Sanader said it was a spectacular action and that, as he said then, a strong step forward, a strong message to those in Croatia who in an unfair and criminal way are trying to serve public goods and state property that will be prosecuted by all means of the rule of law. Well, he had a nice show of those means of persecution. Two were released by the Constitutional Court decision and sued the state for being illegally in prison. Not to mention that those who organized it all, this is just being done, those who organized it never came to justice again, and it won't be. It's very interesting, and this last "Index" action. And she kind of coincided with Prime Minister Sanader's departure to Brussels. In the evening he's there, tomorrow morning we have an arrest here of over 100 and some people. I agree with everything my colleague Pusic said. It's a huge blow to the university, and I have to admit, it was hard for me to listen to Hannes Freedom who somehow gave us lessons and said that it was a blow to the end and to the reputation of a country. Because hitting such an institution in such a way as we did is simply something that is not good for any country or for Croatia. I wish we could do all the actions in Croatia because of ourselves, because we live better and better in Croatia, that we feel safer, that we have less or that we have no organised crime at all, that we do not have people who beat themselves up on the street, that is, if there is, then those who do and order are sanctioned. But I don't like it when it's done in a superficial way just to say in Brussels or anywhere else that, here we are fighting corruption. It's irresponsible to us, to our country and to our citizens. And that's why she can't go on with it. All the actions were made superficially, they were made spectacularly with the media to show that we were doing something. In a year, two people show that there is nothing of it all, but some people are dressed, dirty, and really can't clear their names anymore. And in the end, I will end up having a hard time believing that this government is really going to do something serious in the fight against organised crime and the increasing degree of crime in Croatia when Prime Minister Sanader, the key person who should do things in this country still says this way: "I was just in Washington where the degree of crime is higher than in Croatia and nothing." What does that mean? That Prime Minister Sanader and HDZ are beating, murder, robbery, organised crime is a normal phenomenon. If so, then we can hardly expect that something will move to the better in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17446	Thank you. 2 corrections, Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17447	Thank you very much. Well, from a series of inaccuracy due to the shortness of time, the colleague says it would be better if the minister had performed here honestly, etc. Mr. Minister has performed very sincerely in order to preserve the dignity, independence and political independence of the honorable police profession doing its honorable work. And that's the correction of an incorrect quote, I quoted which one. She said the minister should have acted honestly, he did what he wanted to do in order to protect his integrity. I don't know what this is, I haven't seen it before in Parliament. Please explain to your colleagues, it is rare in the Parliament that there is a Rules of Procedure here, a colleague of Milanovic. The second correction to the incorrect allegations is, says actions are working ahead of the Brussels meetings and before Prime Minister Sanader's travels. That's not true. Meetings in Brussels are every week. Prime Minister Sanader is working on a diplomatic offensive, and he's on his way all the time, we know for what reasons. So what we're going to stop police work is incorrect because politics is the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17448	Second correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct this last incorrect assumption that Prime Minister Sanader and HDZ are the normal appearance and beating and killing and all of these phenomena are negative that you said. It's incorrect, trendy and truly amazing that you said something like that. But when you say something like that, then you might ask the question of what these phenomena are to the SDP. Perhaps the answer to that question would best be given by Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17450	Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17451	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry another man had to be brutally beaten and Prime Minister Sanader and you acted. The fact is that moving this agenda point from a very high, or low 58th place as seen today is the consequence of what happened some time ago, which is the last brutal beating in the city of Zagreb. Because when we in the Parliament are alerting ourselves to the state of security, almost daily beatings, robberies, non-real cases, then you irresponsibly referred to statistics, Prime Minister Sanader sat there and approved it, and I don't know if he knew whether or not you told him what you wrote or signed in the report, in conclusion, so I quote: "Citizens of their sense of security and quality of protection provided by the police are forming on the basis of information published by the police and from personal experience. We are convinced that this report shows that nothing dramatic is happening today in the Republic of Croatia on the public security plan and that there is nothing that we have not experienced in more or less than 10 years." It's part of the conclusion that's in your report. In the last current hour on the security issues you once again referred to statistics as saying that someone was cheating on me about a question that I asked is it true what the media are saying you're under investigation? You must see with your colleague how things are, the Minister of Justice, about this deception, because she confirmed it in a certain way in an interview she gave for "The Morning List" in July. And everything was fine with that "Current Clock" in order to, unfortunately, happen again, a brutal beating, an extraordinary cabinet session in the afternoon and then a hot and sharp message from that government crime-fighting session. Prime Minister Sanader has again made himself a savior, but too late, because another man has been killed. What happened? The Chief of Police of Zagreb's fourth in a row has been removed, and we have now received the fifth in five years, and that was all at this point. And the chiefs of the largest police department, the very important police department, change like they do on the current tape. Prior to this flying commander, Tolusic, who was only three months old, was Chief Tomurad, who was removed because of inefficientness and inadequacy, but probably because someone in the system filed a complaint for someone who should not have received the application. It is a very important assessment that safety in a country is not only measured by naked statistics but by a subjective sense of security among citizens, you yourself said that in your conclusion. But the fact is also that the Republic of Croatia is more insecure from day to day. Citizens, voters, people who have given us trust, both to you and us, and to all of us in this House, to give them a better and safer life, to lose faith in institutions so-called. The rule of law, first of all the police, and I understand them. Because almost no USKOK confidant, and it is about people who have been willing to help police and prosecutors prove corruption and fight against corruption, organised crime has not remained protected. He didn't stay protected. Moreover, gangs of beatings on the street with their fists, baseball bats, iron bars are irrefutable with those who raise their voice against injustice and illegality. He died unfortunately and Luka Ric, former director of Zagreb roads Igor Radjenović was beaten, for Luka Ric, was not resolved, the perpetrators were found for Rajedinović but not the contracting authorities, in the end it would turn out that there was no chance that he had been found and that he had not won over his head. The lawyer for gender equality Gordana Lukač Koritnik was also attacked because she warned as a state official in front of her office of unacceptable public behaviour and the spread of national hatred. That's the only reason she got head-on in front of her office. A journalist was beaten up because he wrote things that someone didn't like. An entrepreneur, Galinec, was beaten in broad daylight as a message that it could be done as it pleases. The bills in the halls, the violence in the stadiums, the streets are almost everyday. Banks, mails, exchanges, bookies, security guards carrying money are being robbed almost every day. We're alarmingly increasing the number of people killed on the roads. It's serious stuff. What's the police doing? He keeps his shifts. I will repeat, Police Administration Zagrebačka, the largest police administration, the largest number due to the size of the crime rate, the fifth chief in five years. On the board, Mr. Secretary, you said you'd be changing until you guessed. I don't think we have any experiments. The inability to elect the first man to the Crimea Police, and all that we've been talking about is this police sector, Crimea Police, for a year now. Stories about the Croatian FBI or the national anti-corruption and organised crime office are called people and are better asked to withdraw those appointments. Please make a deal once, name people, do your job. With these HDZ moves, the government has shown that there is no political will to deal with organised crime and violence in the country, in your inaction over the past few months you have knowingly told criminals in Croatia everything is allowed. Many were killed because of it, my friend was killed because of it, and I might get hurt tomorrow because I will not stop talking about organised crime and corruption that is suffocating Croatia. I fear that this relationship will continue to cause people to suffer, and fear is drawn among the citizens of Croatia and thus no longer works. But Mr. Minister, you don't have to worry, you're no longer responsible. Prime Minister Sanader is responsible because he has not relieved you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17452	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said another man should have been beaten to make the minister and prime minister react. It's a lie. It's a complete lie. The police respond in any case, either in these cases that you listed or any other unknown cases that there are, of which no one escapes without them, but there are fewer than there have been comparisons with other countries we have already spoken, far less. And you said from day to day, the uncertainty is increasing, and we become more insecure from day to day. I don't know where you get that impression. It's a complete lie. Second you say minister, not law enforcement. So are the attackers caught on your colleague Rajenovic? They've been caught. Two of them got caught. As far as I know from the media, I know two of them were caught. Is the trustee caught? If there's a superior, I guess the gentlemen in the process will sing, so we'll see who's the employer. But what your colleague Rajedenovic is saying would allow us to conclude from that who he refers to and who he is talking about. Thus, it is certain that the results will come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17454	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17455	Here's a colleague said that moving the agenda point is the result of the last beating, which is why this point is moving forward. I will remind my colleague that the 9.7th report has arrived in this Croatian Parliament, that the first session of the National Security Committee was scheduled to take place on 24.9th – a debate on the report and that the 26th session with that agenda was held and only after that session could this plenary debate be held. Otherwise, I'll remind you, the chairman of the National Security Committee is a colleague, Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17456	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17457	I didn't lift Mr. Chuljak, you didn't see. I raised Mr. Matusic. I beg you, you are Mr. Vice President very experienced in running these sessions. The Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, Mr. Matušić instead of correcting the incorrect allegations, he asked a series of questions and held and always gave us a speech, so he can lift up the replica and allow the man to answer it. He's a recordr by the number of corrections of incorrect allegations in which he hasn't corrected anything. Here's Mr. Matusic. A man who's lifted a hundred corrections to incorrect allegations in which he hasn't corrected anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17458	It won't be your claim, because I've been very careful and carefully following all the parliamentary statements. The previous MP presented certain facts, which was challenged by MP Matušić. It's in the tradition of this House, which is how the parliamentary issues are corrected. That's right. Mr. Representative Mario Zubović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed colleague has really said a lot of incorrect allegations. I'll count it now. Let's just say HDZ has no political will. Bands of baditans walk the streets, from day to day in Croatia the situation is becoming more uncertain. That's just not true. The evidence is that in 2007, the most difficult cases in crime have been solved by 96%. So both the police and the government are working to solve and 96% have solved the most difficult cases. I'm sorry that your speech is such as to make it worse for you, but I don't think you should go towards it, because the police are protecting both you and us.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17460	And Mr. Representative Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17461	I would correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who said Croatia is an insecure country. I can't agree with that. There is a real perception that Croatia is insecure because of these few cases that I do not approve of and condemn, but I would also ask my colleagues from the SDP if Croatia was safe in 2002 when Mr Bozo Prka was beaten up, in 2003, when Ante Shimleša was beaten, 2003. Denis Kuljish, so Ivan Chaleta, etc. Was she a safe country, and did you gentlemen solve those cases that were at the time of your government and then which minister was removed or the police director? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17462	Interior Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17463	Dear Mr. Dragovan, you also mentioned the unkind event of the beating, that is, the attack on Mrs. Lukač Koritnik, but you were aware and unconsciously missing to say the fact that you could not remain unknown because Mrs. Koritnik had spoken of it in public. An hour after the attack, two of the attackers were found, and a few hours after and a third. Well, maybe it would be nice and commendable here and the police and give them a boost. Under the USKOK Act, neither the interior minister nor the chief police director, nor anyone from the police can know who is the USKOK's trustee. It's weird that you guys know who's dependant on UskoK and that's disturbing. There is an even greater danger here that you have said and quoted, the truth God is incorrect, which I said at the session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. These sessions are closed and no one is allowed to present what is the course of these sessions, and since the chairman of the board has not warned you about it now, I will be in the future by the time I come to the meetings of that committee then refrain from commenting and information because I will not be sure that you will not pass it on, or at least I will not speak at those sessions where you are present. I'm warning you there's a commitment and I'm asking you to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17464	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Don't concentrate on me, Miss Ingrid. Mr. Dragovan, come in. I have to listen carefully and be careful what anyone says and when they say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17465	Mr. Minister, the sessions aren't secret. It's a discussion that's in the board's session, these sessions aren't secrets. There are certain information, and when they are placed as such, they must not be transferred, and the issue of debate, the issue of debate is not secret sessions. These aren't secret sessions. And as for the civil servant, i.e. the lawyer for gender equality Gordana Lukač Koritnik, I said that she was attacked, as an argument that she was attacked in the middle of town because people allow herself, i.e. these criminals and beatings to do whatever they want and I commend the police that she reacted very quickly and very effectively in this regard. But as an assessment, I said that the state of security is such that someone who thinks of something comes to mind in the center of town and attacks anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17466	And Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17467	Minister, you said that the meetings of the Committee on National Security are secrets, which, as far as I know as a representative, is not true and this Parliament, as far as I know, is not the government, it is the government's practice to have secret sessions, not this Parliament and the committee of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17468	Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Most of the discussions we had led to today were in some way a debate on the state of security regarding the so-called and thanks to the work of the police. And unfortunately, I think that there should already be another form of that same thesis, which is the state of security in relation to the police and I, with all the support in those elements where you can be supported, unfortunately I have to point out that there is such a problem. I'll try to explain it. First of all, there are people here who are professional. I'm glad that at least one of them sits here and I'm interested in what he thinks when police, I say, research takes place as a campaign. When they take place as a Maestro campaign, as a gruntovnica campaign, as a campaign I don't know about health care as it is called, as a campaign... etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think there's a kind of police activity that would be professional, responsible and leading the goal, which can be carried out as a campaign, but when a thing is set up in such a way that the professional work of the campaign is something else to say. Then he wants to either cover up what can't be solved through the police, which I hope isn't such a case, or he actually wants to leave the impression that something is going on, and that's not done, or it's not done the way it's supposed to be done. Please, gentlemen, for one college, you've known for 30 years and it's a public secret that there are certain things that happen to exams, to the easily laid, many especially some acquaintances who have graduated there, etc. What has ever been done with a name, a last name, a place, happening as a particular case, not as a campaign, but as a particular case of warning and not doing so. Did the dean of that university come to terms with what would otherwise be said in terms of the preservation of institutions spoken of by Vesna Pusic, so it was said to him, hear it, Mr. Dean, we have an indication that there is something going on with you, so will you tell that professor we heard about, that it is done, because it is a criminal act and that we will have to do something about it? That's not how it's done, gentlemen. No, I don't. But this way in cases that know what they are, where nothing seems, nothing seems for years, I don't think just this year that we understand each other, this year that they are now, but not even earlier years, and then they fit into the big event, in the big action "Index" in the "Index" campaign that actually has the shape of a witch hunter at the university. Unfortunately, this form has such a feeling produced in public, ultimately reacting now that few fears have been released and those responsible at the university are the people of that university. I'm saying they got rid of fear, that because it's actually a scary action. It's an action that comes in mid-terms to a college of arms that enters the premises where they're brought in, so isn't that a scary thing. So that at the end of a hundred people, or as many as there were, it would now be reduced to twenty people who were detained somewhere. I wonder which one he'll end up being reduced to. Now it happens that in that second action, because this one has been performed just so maestroly, that it is released from the investigative prison because what is expected is already such that I say that they probably have no reason to be in prison anymore, if they are guilty. This action intimidated a part of the public, and many who think that because of their little guilt they're guilty, because they looked someone in the eye when he came to the exam eight times, and then he lost a year, so he thought well to the devil maybe he'd learn another time, they're also here now, I'm asking you whether they might be moral, whether they are. We should probably have a police representative sitting in college watching if the exam was really passed with the professor or not, so you could see it that way. Please be nice, this is one very serious damage that has been done to the university. I don't know if she was inflicted in the sense that someone wanted it or didn't want it, but that's something like that, how do I say take a crowbar and bang on the porcelain store. The damage to Croatia was done, the damage to its image in Europe was done, because for a time I was particularly appalled that we might not have done what we should have done, but we did it for Europe. Anyone in Europe can accept that this is the way to enter the university. When a rector who was initially, probably under pressure, did not react as he might have been, started reacting, organized... against the rector and accused himself continuously in that same list that was present at the detention of Mrs. Milkettin, he repeatedly committed a haranga that these terrible people at the university, the university Senate, instead of dealing with corruption, did not deal with the guilt of potentially blaming the police in the Index action. In order for that same title to appear, I'll say why I quote it so it'll be clear to those who can follow me into this. Who's against the Index action is for corruption. The title in that list. Maybe some will remember what the headlines looked like in '72. That's what they looked like. The same goes to universities, same goes to cultural institutions, etc. Mr. Minister, I know there are not only a lot of people in the police force, but also the most honorable people. I know it's probably one of the most ungrateful jobs there is. We're watching American shows, and it's not easy there either. But please, if you need help with what Vesna Pusic said, this Parliament will be for it. But if you need to mix substances, carry out actions instead of investigations, accuse me to say... institutions instead of individuals, then you actually destroy what little is left of this country. A university that is not exactly something insignificant that is not a privatisation fund, which is not even health care, not even other elements of education, but something that we should be proud of and something we should be doing. I ask this Parliament to extract this situation in some way, accepting the entire text can be looked at, but I will read only one passage, it is a passage of the conclusions of the Senate of the University in Zagreb. The fight against corruption must not be brought to the campaign and the media show, but should be seriously systematic and uncompromising. The university therefore protestes and condemns human rights violations and the humiliation of suspects, irresponsiblely throwing suspicions at the university as a whole, creating an atmosphere in which university work is morally problematic and potentially criminal activity. Guilt belongs to an individual and can't be a collective guilt. The guilt is not based on suspicions and stories, but on evidence, and while evidence and judgment must not spread the atmosphere of general doubt about moral failure and professional incompetence. If this were written by one of the representatives present here, they might have thrown him and corrected him and asked for correction of the allegations. This is the opinion of the currently most respectable bodies in that same university. How are you going to answer this? Don't answer that now... and jump. This is one serious mistake. From this serious mistake, you and the police need to learn something. In this way with campaigns nothing can be feared, with campaigns one time Mr. Shuker said at "Maestra" that no one will dare now after the "Maestro" action to do anything. How can he not dare? Here you can see they're selling exams. I mean scary. It's a tough example. But we're getting replacement defendants. We get those who sit because they beat but not the ones they're beaten for. I hope you're doing something about it. I'm hoping you might do something. But you can't substitute, you can't substitute what's not done to simulate the work that's at the same time a productivity fund from the country's point of view, from the university's point of view, from the point of view of legality, because you can't enter the university in this way. And from the point of view of working with the media, which is a particularly sad story just an amazing story. A story where the police have problems when there's something being said here on the council board, but a calm soul can be... then they take over her ideologies somehow, which is why she's doing something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd fence myself gentlemen from the Ministry for the support I've given some media. I'd fence myself and I'd do a lot of things to make things better for this university's reputation. That's what we expect of you. I don't personally ask the question of the resignations or the absences here. I'm asking the question here how to fix a situation where students at one university are already looking for them, preferably, to be recognized for their years. Because you made it. You've produced the right of those, if all is so corrupt, that they may pass through in general and without questioning. ... What you gentlemen need to understand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here we are no enemies to you when we tell you this. We'd love to be close friends, but we can't accept that things are being replaced, that they're changing the thesis and that this is how little that's left of the university's reputation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17470	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17471	Thank you, Mr. President. I must correct my esteemed colleague, Professor Vujic, for his untrue statement that this action is terrifying. It is true that the negative calls we hear from the left hand side of the assembly are such that they would certainly have different connotations and innuendos and interpretations that you are by any chance in power because in that case this action would be declared the highlight of the functioning of the rule of law and institutions that are doing their job impeccably, which in my opinion, the Index, judging by the first results and deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17472	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go. Don't play with the tiles! Replica Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17473	Thank you. Col. Vujic is quite right when he warns that we must be very careful not to create a state of collective guilt, not to produce one stereotype of the fact that it is the university community that should have, some here mentioned offensive, anti-corruption offensive. Well, it's at the university, and it's exactly the methods of the chase. I think we can get into a trap. No one is here, there is no one in the hall who supports corruption and let everyone answer who is corrupt, but we are really playing in quotes, saying "we are playing with the most subtle layer of Croatian society, the most frigid", what Vujic said: "Pajser by porcelain". This cannot be done by a responsible person. We've brought ourselves into this situation that university teachers are like calling us, as a profession, as a social layer, I don't know what to call them crisscrossed collectively to a pillar of shame. And let's not fool ourselves. The spirit of what was once called a cultural revolution appears. The best thing to do with universities right now is to count those who pre-declarate someone else's guilt just because someone accused them. I'm warning you that because we can fall into the trap of anti-intellectualism and if we get into it then we've questioned a lot of things in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17474	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17475	A colleague, Vujić, speaking of the Index affair, but what a surprise it is easier to cuff a professor in the thick news, with his pants in pieces than to deal with political corruption. That's right, Minister. Especially under the lights of the reflector. What kind of police arrests the world under the lights? And this famous action, the Index, will we see what kind of court epilogue they're gonna have in court? Is he going to graduate? And then the minister will probably understand that from index to diploma is a difficult and thorny path.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17476	Interior Minister Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17477	If Mr Vujic's views had not been expressed in a point called: The report on police affairs I would have left his free will he had the right to his view. However, as Minister of the Interior and when a debate is conducted in the context of police affairs and I will be free, at least I have experienced it, throwing and pointing at everything that is related to the Operation Index on police officers, then I am forced to react. This action was led by the State Attorney's Office and the staff of the Ministry of the Interior, police officers gave assistance to gentlemen. What would you say to the Minister of the Interior and the Chief Director of the Police if they said: "We will not participate in this." All formal assumptions have been fulfilled. The university's autonomy has been preserved. A university rector was informed of the action and all formal assumptions were resolved. What's worrying is that it's kind of turning the subject in one wrong direction. No one deals with the fact that this action has been prepared for a year. Nobody deals and wants to know the fact or to see realistically the fact that the first information on this came from the order of students and they are part of the university in a broader sense. Some colleges have middlemen walking around. That these kids students know their names and know their resolution models. If you want the Croatian police or the judicial authorities to do so in a broader sense, you will have to wait some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17478	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17479	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of a minister who's said for the second time that we're pointing fingers at police officers. No, Mr. Secretary, police officers are doing their job fair and square and as is said here for a small salary. And we point at you all the time. It's you who create some things in the ministry. We believe that you are responsible for some things being done as well as those that have not been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17480	Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So Minister Roncevic said the Index action did not disrupt university autonomy. Well, Mr. Minister, did you hear what MP Vujic read when he read what the Senate concluded? Then you didn't conclude from that that they said that the autonomy of the university was injured. You didn't read, you didn't listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17482	Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak, Vice President of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17483	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Director, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It's always been like that in the police department! If you're doing it, it's not good. If you're not doing it, it's worse. And today's debate goes in that sense. I'd say that first of all the cops know them doing their job and free will and never look at the hours and there's no one who can stop them when they feel that there's a crime somewhere, that they'll stop them from doing it till the end. And to say that cops are great, and that leadership is really bad is purely politicizing, because they all make up one whole. But we're going in a row. When we talk about the 2007 report and the 2008 report for the first five months, then we're talking about security, the state of security of Croatia for the year you declare it disastrous, that people are insecure, and these same people gave us confidence in the elections at the end of 2007. Therefore, it means that they trust this stranger and trust the people who do the job. You are saying that Croatia is insecure, that it is catastrophic, that practically every day of beating, robbery and so on, and this Croatia visits more than 10 million foreign tourists annually with its families, with its loved ones, come to such an uncertain country to spend an annual holiday. So please, who would that be to say to a person who would go to such an insecure country to spend an annual vacation, bring his property here and his children and then go to a country that's completely insecure. There is no such person, and it is certain that these tourists and precisely tourist seasons show that Croatia is a safe country, because it is a fundamental assumption that tourists would even come to a country. We must take it as a foundation when we talk about the state of security in Croatia. When we say that this is statistics and that there's only statistics in here. That's right, it's statistics. But remember, behind this each figure are days and days of hard and hard work to get these figures, not to write them, but to create a prerequisite for writing something. It's a bloody job, tough. No days, no nights, no vacations for those people. None of them took full vacations just because they're doing the job. It is therefore not correct for either the Minister, or the Director, or the Croatian Government, and especially for the police to criticise them for what they did. If something is not well done in the process, then it is necessary to evaluate and see what is not well done. But we can't blame the police for everything and say that everything that isn't good in this country is the police's fault. That's incorrect. I myself worked in that police force and also say that during the war it was a group of Croatian democratic communities. That police force was during the '90s, '91. For years she held the front line on the first line. The police participated in all the operational actions we had to free the Croatian state and also fought crime as far as possible under such conditions. Don't some of you remember '91? The year he was full of Zagreb each other carried an automatic rifle on his shoulder. And in such a situation, the Croatian police maintained order. It is not good for dedicated and responsible people to do their job that way. It is not good to say for our country that it is almost the worst in Europe on security. That's the wrong people! So let's not speak against our country. If we're doing political work, tell Ivan Jarnjak that he's not doing well, that's all. But don't speak against your country! Don't let tomorrow's newspapers write across Europe that we have declared, Parliament that it is the most insecure country in Europe. It's not good. Who needs it, and what's the point? What's the point of that? I wouldn't tell you much more, because when I talk about the police for a reason, I have to say that I get excited and that it's hard to talk about these people. I know how hard they do this job and with what will. It's not easy for them, but to estimate that some people or some group of people should be warned, not to fight crime, but to warn don't do it, because it's not good. We also want all groups in Croatia who do illegal acts to go warn and say don't know, maybe they'll arrest you. Where does that lead? What will you say, the other side that reports these crimes? And I have to say about this "Index" action if it's been said here five times, the police have assisted. She didn't lead the action. So don't let them get away with it. Don't do it all if something isn't done just fine to throw it at the police. It's not the police's fault. It's not the M.O.P., it's not the minister. They did their part of the work they got in one team effort. When we talk about the state of security, local administration and self-government play an important role in creating a prerequisite for crime or non-crime, as well as in Zagreb, and in Zagreb. So let me get this straight. I will be happy to support your report because it guarantees security in the Croatian state. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17484	Thank you. Two corrections. Ms. Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17485	Thank you, Vice President. I have two corrections to the incorrect allegations after the presentation of Vice President Jarnjak. First, tourists come to this country because it is Croatia. I think there will be a little less Australian tourists after this unfortunate episode with Miss Australia whose family should have alarmed the Australian and Croatian public to start taking some action. Please calm them down. And the second is the thesis you're trying to push through here in this House of Commons, which is that the SDPs speak against Croatia and against the interests of our country. We speak what we say because we love our country and we care about its security and its citizens. It's a thesis I don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17486	I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17487	And the correction of the incorrect assumption is that we speak against Croatian interests and that we do not love our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17488	I listened as carefully as everyone else. Peace, please. I listened to the statement of Vice President Jarnjak, he did not mention in any word or explicit or implicit that it would refer to the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17489	I think a phonogram will be here in 20 minutes, so take a look. In one 20 minutes, check the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17490	Yeah. I listen very carefully. Next correction, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17491	It's incorrect that we are speaking here, literally quoting "against the state". You're the only one who has to understand that you're not a state. You're the government and we're talking about the responsibility of the government for this condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17492	Seven replicas. First, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17493	Thank you. A fellow Jarnjak, if one of us has a family and criticises his children because you think he's doing something bad, it doesn't mean he hates her, but wants them well maybe. A lot more than those who keep quiet and let them repeat their mistakes. No one here smart wants to attack an emblem police force or that's what this is all about. All my personal experiences are positive if you look at yourself with the police. I've always come across cooperation, help, etc. But we're talking about a kind of policy on the situation in our country and what we see as bad. I know the police didn't make that decision, but we're talking here and we can't get around the police. We can't get around, and you're the Minister of Government here. You're the minister in the government who played an important role in all this. And I think we spoke very well-meaningly and badly of you to go so low that you attack us against the state. That's what you said to the implicates, even the explicit ones. The fact is, even these beatings, the numbers are numbers, but these beatings, they're at the level of the symbols, my people. No one's fighting. People fight as examples, we live in a society where everything is a symbol. The one who cooperated with you is being beaten. The one who's willing to be cooperative, who's willing to point to crime to tell the others if you do, you'll get a stick on your head. It's a message and it's a bad condition. It's a state of uncertainty that I'm afraid to say what I think or help you. I'm sorry, I've been going through a lot of things as a parliamentary representative because I was talking about the Brodosplit affair as a parliamentary representative, and I'm staying protected as a face bear compared to an ordinary citizen. So you know, and court applications and a hundred miracles and intelligence conversations, etc., public harassment. I'm sorry, and I was insulted here because I asked where the money from the bootleggers we'd never get an answer to. These are the bad messages, and my dear vice president, when you beat someone up because they're working with the police, then it needs to be changed and that's why...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17494	I don't know why that's addressed to me now. A rhetorical question. Replica reply, vice president at home Mr. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17495	Dear colleague Jurjevic, there were no individual matters here. This was about real uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia as a fact, as something that is not a phenomenon, but a constant, as something that does not calm down, but is being strengthened, as something that is a terrible phenomenon, where people do not feel secure, where it affects the development of the economy, in general, the development of the state. It's just not true. I said it was not true and I told you several examples, which is that in Croatia it has come on vacation for the last few years, after over 10 million people every year spent their vacation in Croatia. To say for this one person who is very sorry that this person has not been found yet, but to say that people will not come, so whether it is a call or an invitation from one another to say let's all agree together to help the police find this person and to show an example of them coming even more to Croatia from Australia, not to come, but to come, to come as many as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17496	Next replica, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17497	Thank you very much. Well, I can't not rephrase a fellow Capricorn because he's hit the heart of things. Some here are criticizing police work for three unsolved cases. We all support the police to find them as soon as possible and the actors in the case of Mr. Miljuš and everyone else. We've heard the Minister's report as far as it's concerned, and I'm sure those actions will be successful. But what's here today before us is a full-time report. We can't convict the top of the police because of three fresh, yet unsolved cases, and even less the whole police force. And that Croatia is safe country cannot read one e-mail I got from a friend who travels around the world a lot. I'll translate it. Dear Andrija, thank you for your hospitality. I was very happy walking through the centre of Zagreb during midnight. Zagreb is the last capital, the last capital in the old Europe that is safe during the night. Thank you, Mr. Minister, thank you, Mr. Director, thank you to all the officers for having such a mail, and I am proud of it, and I should talk about it, not just 3 or 4 unsolved cases, because then it's politicization. And I think in the end about this security that my friend wrote about so nicely that he's telling the report that's ahead of us. On page 5, it is clearly and loudly said that the resolution is, therefore, not registration statistics, but successfully solved cases 65.7% and in other countries a solution for crime ranges between 17% in Denmark and 55% in Germany. So even by the statistics that are attached, the police are successful and therefore I would ask that our debate further in this direction, not to discuss politicizing the wrong picture based on several cases that I'm sure I repeat will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17498	Replica reply, Vice-President Mr. Ivan Jaranjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17499	Well, that is exactly what my aim was to point to what I find not good and not to contribute to the state of security in Croatia. With such a debate we certainly do not contribute to the state of security in Croatia but, and I agree with that, I also expect, and I hope that these cases that have been set up in the last few months will be successfully solved. It's not the police, it doesn't have a magic wand that could reveal the perpetrator. You see, in one of those cases, the perpetrators were caught. When the perpetrators are caught, they are no longer important, the maltenes are the victims, but the one who is the commander is sought. Do they have a commanding officer? They don't? I don't know, God forbid we find him and bring him to justice. But that must be a common ground. It's gotta be a fight together. We here today must send these officers a message that we respect and appreciate their work, that we support the successful fight against crime, that we will help them to be even more successful, even more effective. If we really send such a message from here, then it will certainly be much easier for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17500	Next replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17501	Thank you very much. Here's a fellow Jarnjak on several occasions made one replacement thesis. We don't call here on the responsibility of a police officer, we don't call on the responsibility of officers who are diligently and responsibly doing their job. We here seek responsibility and answers from the authorities, from the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is not always the statistics and is not always the point in statistics. It's also a feeling of whether something seems to be happening, whether there's a political will to be done or not. Let's just say we have one example of the Brodosplit case where two years has no results and very likely we haven't had any incentive on one side of the country, who knows what would happen to that case. And this is how the SDP wants to protect Croatia and that we have a greater reputation in Europe when we work and solve such cases where corruption and economic crime happen. So, Mr. Jarnjak, please don't twist the thesis. We are not asking for responsibility, and we are not calling officers and officials who are responsible and consciously doing their job, but we are looking for answers from the authorities to those who are in charge. And on the other hand, since you said that voters rated the security situation last year the way you said it, I can also say that more than two-thirds of voters who didn't vote for HDZ then gave a negative assessment. But it's not there, you know, you can't handle that kind of data because they didn't in that way estimate that the state of security was good or that it wasn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17502	Replica reply, Vice-President Mr. Agent Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17503	Look, the one who worked in the police system made it clear to him that without cooperating with the government and without asking the authorities, they themselves can do nothing. And here is exactly the attempt to separate the police's success, that's their success and everything else is power. If there are no conditions to work, if there are no uniforms, if there are not all the conditions necessary not to list them, if there are no vehicles, if there is no fuel, if there are no other conditions, they simply cannot carry out their duties. Since this government had no intention of fighting crime, it would not have created conditions for the police to do so right now. The police are so effective as to create conditions for it to be effective, because they themselves will do the job, but if they do not create material conditions for them to do so, surely they are less effective. So you can't share it with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17504	Next replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Jarnjak, in your debate, has been determined among other things, and I believe you're only telling the truth, how the officers give up their vacations, do not use their vacations all for the sake of good results. What's that supposed to mean now? That this is the way it should be or that we have too few police officers in Croatia so people can't use vacations or that the police are poorly organized so that the system works people can't go on vacations. I just want to believe that you didn't mean it that way and that you're going to give a message that every police officer has to take advantage of every year's vacation on which he's entitled by law, including the police directors. And to brag about the fact that people don't use their vacation is not a good message and can't leave Parliament. But what I agree with you when you mentioned "Index" indeed the police in the action assisted at the request of the state attorney's office and the USKOK, and even could agree with those who are calling for university autonomy, but on one condition, that... universities and that the deans of the university did their job and internal control themselves, the surveillance measures made a safeguard mechanism that corruption in colleges did not exist. If they were unable to solve the problem on their own, they would probably be called the SCOTT and the State's Attorney's Office. But now that this action has taken place, I don't know how it will end, I don't know how many charges will be filed, how many verdicts will be made and can't judge it. But now that the U.S.A. and the state's attorney's office have traced the part of the crime to the... university, now to be called to the autonomy of the university and amnesty by any responsibility of the Senate and the dean, it is not correct according to this part of the repression that exists in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17506	Replica reply, Vice President Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17507	My colleague, Lesar, it is clear to me that a long-standing union worker is working in you right now and that you are fighting for... I appreciate it and respect it. [[You don't understand.]] However, I wanted to say this as an example because someone in their debate said that police officers do themselves and union work that they say is good to organize trade unions, but it is not good to just do so. It's just not true. That's not true. And when I talked about it then I wanted to say that they were both ready and that many of them gave up their vacations so that they could carry out their assignments. And as for the success or failure of Operation Index, at least the police have the influence and I think that's what needs to be looked at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17508	Next replica, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I would also look back and praise this presentation by Mr. Jarnjak, but I am concerned that today in this assembly we have heard the words of the campaign from colleagues and from other colleagues. I have to correct and complete here that the word campaign does not stand, and that no campaign action is conducted in the police, but in the long term and in accordance with the law, especially in such actions. Really, everything that's been said here for the work of the police, I think this is also important to complement and say let it be known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17510	Now we have a sugar tail campaign. Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17511	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Jarnjak, I have responded to this replica only because of your sentence that the SDP is in a way to paraphrasing or to cut short when it criticises the work of the police, so I think the opposition in this Parliament should also be criticised for the work of the police, that it is against the Republic of Croatia by the names of all those SDPs who defended this Croatia, created this Croatia, and also in the police ranks such as my dear friend Bukuljan, whom you know very well and that we have worked very well with, I don't think it's from you, which I know very well, it seems to me that it's not fair. But well, criticise that. I'll always say that the good part of the cops, the big part of the cops, I'll... The coastal-goran County says it works extremely well, works in poor conditions, co-operate with local self-government, and that the result of this report is relatively good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that special sense of uncertainty, whether you solve these cases or not, is something else entirely. You know, it's going to be like this, if we keep doing less and less reporting like this, but when you control me whether I've been drinking or not, please control people or some other people who are gathering somewhere to see if they have bats, whether they're armed, because there's more and more. We'll defend ourselves, that's a message, if the police aren't effective. And I would like the police to be effective, not to defend ourselves and then become the wild west on the streets of Croatia. And here's one more. Mr. Minister, I wanted to ask Mr. Jarnjak, these large cases of Radjenović, etc., sound. You know what it looks like. We feel terribly insecure. When on television, in Dnevnik, one of the TVs, I'm not going to tell you that the boy who went to school was shot with an air rifle. That was the news of the day. Even, it was kind of a schematic depiction when under that path it could only get out of there. The news's stopped. The news and the safety of the citizens would be much better if then behind that news, in the same "Dnevnik" said and the NN was caught, he was guilty, and he did it. Here are the little things that would make us feel much, much safer in Croatia, and not that we have to follow the children. Maybe he got caught, maybe he didn't, I don't know, but if it had been announced that he'd be much safer and would have more kindly looked at the police's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17512	Replica reply, agent Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17513	Your Honor, first of all, I have no idea that I question your SDP at all or anyone else's right to criticise it, but your right to assess pardon that. The right to criticise that an institution that today gives a report is absolutely, but to give an assessment that in Croatia is a catastrophic security situation and that people absolutely feel insecure, excuse me, let me also say that it is not true and that they cannot agree and that it is simply not true, if we look at the other side that only one element has come to Croatia over 10 million foreign tourists who do not go. Tourism is the best indicator of the country's security, the best indicator. Only very successful countries can be in tourism if they have a good security status. So, in conclusion, absolutely not, that I'm talking about you having no right to criticize. Criticizing every honor, but giving a grade like that, let me say that I disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17514	And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it's very important that we don't actually send from this House exactly as Mr. Jarnjak said the wrong message to the world. Look, we need to send a message to our citizens, to the citizens of Croatia. It is true that there are no bombings of the type of Turkey, Tunisia, Nabali, Indonesia, Egypt, the Red Sea, etc. in Croatia. However, it turns out that, in fact, and yet it is all expensive and Spain, along with them Italy, a successful tourist country. It turns out, and we actually seem to get one wrong direction, the wrong impression. I would have made it a little bit easier, maybe even caricated, it would have turned out that Mr. Galinec, Rajenović, Miljus were supposed to be in tourism, somewhere at sea or our young Luka Ritz, so nothing would have happened to them. So we're not talking about tourism and that kind of security. We're talking about it, or it's said here, I haven't talked yet, and I'm not criticizing myself to say that everything the police have done. That's what you said. No, I don't. What the police didn't do, what they should have done, what they couldn't do or what they couldn't do. I wouldn't get into that. So what she did was mostly not criticised. Furthermore, you said that in 1991, there were, as you would say, guns a lot, so as Ms. Milanka Opacic said, long pipes in our cities, so there was no panic. And you also claimed that it was mostly the police, as you said HDZ or something. I was a police officer myself, you were a minister and I wasn't going to tell the commander, but I wasn't at HDZ. The whole of Croatia is on its feet, wherever anyone should have been, therefore this claim is not, does not stand exactly like that, is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17516	Replica, Vice President of the House, Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17517	Well, Your Honor, I will begin with this final claim. First of all, it was said for this speaker here, that the police at first were practically a group of the Croatian Democratic Community and my discussion which you obviously did not listen well to is precisely in the direction of it, I say it is not true. We couldn't win in Croatia in all those battles if they were just... HDZ. He defeated the entire people thanks to the entire people, but the fact is that the Croatian Democratic Union was in power. That's a fact. Secondly, in order to be polymized, I must say, there must also be a problem known. So, on other things, I wouldn't pollemize...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17518	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed this report, which the minister sent us last year, and the first five months of this year, is a range of statistics, indicators across all segments. Comparative displays of the spread and everything else and so that, possibly if data were added on the blood groups of committing crimes, they would probably have a complete blood count on the state of crime in Croatia. But I am sorry that the very important data, at least in my court, was not interpreted, explained what they mean, what values they bring with them and what problems they cause. So, for example, at station 11 reports for 2007, they provide data on the prevalence of crime by police administrations, which shows that out of the 75 thousand crimes were discovered 50 or 66.8%. However, in three police administrations, the percentage is below the national average, so Zagrebačka 53, Istria 56 and Zadar 64. Now I'm asking, what are the reasons why these three police administrations share or percentage of the offenders found below average. Without any illusions, maybe it's an objective state, maybe it's the result of the bad frame, maybe I don't know what the reasons are, because there's not a single finding and commentary and expert assessment by the first people of the police, why is that. And if someone's below average one year, the first five months of this year, the year before, then there's got to be some reason. So I'm interested in what's causing it? Furthermore, on page 17, the number of crimes per 100,000 inhabitants per police administration. If I'm not mistaken, the Croatian average is 2 thousand 049 per 100 thousand and now we have one police administration, which is Požeško-slavonska with 812, three times smaller or two-and-a-half times lower than the average and Istria 3 thousand 415. Now, is this due to the efficiency in detecting or non-detecting the perpetrators in this case of one discovery of another non-disclosure or some natural tendency of the population in Istria County to commit crimes. So some reason. Why would I ask that? It is simply to understand the processes that are going on, because the obvious state of crime in Croatia is very different from the police administration to the police administration. Because if the average is 2,000, and in Istria we have 3,000 400, look, that's not 5%, 10% difference. For this reason, I would ask that the future of my reports, except for a little less data, and more professional interpretations of the causes, and then possible consequences, but also the measures that we must bring, and so do we in the Parliament, so that it may no longer be so. Furthermore, the decline in data or detected criminal offences does not mean that there were fewer, as some thefts may be found to have occurred only after 3 years in banks, businesses, institutions and other types of criminal offences. Some murders are discovered when bodies are discovered after 5 years, 10 years. Therefore, to claim that only because of the fall in criminal offences or criminal offences, there has been a fall in crime, it is not correct or correct. Why doesn't the crime police have the first man? And it's not a month, two, three, but a long time. I was expecting a bar in the opening statement that someone would look back on that and explain the problems why it wasn't done. In this report the Minister... a demonstration of the success and compatibility with Denmark's Belarus, Germany, France, Italy, Ukraine and Lithuania turns out to be, say, Belarus has resolved 55% of the crimes. So if in Croatia we can't find an adequate frame for the top man of the crime police, I suggest you import someone from Belarus, because they obviously have terribly effective crime cops, so there's a good one among them for us. But you said that police are actively working cases from 2002, third, fourth, I might want to believe you're still working on those '92 cases. Third, fourth, fifth, when people were killed. So it would be good for you to give us information other than this, how many open cases are being opened for, say, murder and serious murder since Croatia's independence. I want to believe the police don't close files or cases after a year, two and three if they haven't discovered the killer. So, the open case information to everyone so far would be telling how effective the police are, there's no such information. Why is it that leaks information from the ranks of the police and those considered very important to the functioning of the police? I expected you to propose what we as Parliament should do, do, bring in to facilitate your work, not just the ministry, but the total police. I expected a proposal to amend the rules no longer leading to the fact that persons indicted, suspected or under investigation, who have dual citizenship objectically from Croatia, and here yesterday, we have a new case of one who was before the court, so he ended up with dual citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina by accident being a judge in a court of Croatian before that, and the courts replied that they had not issued a measure of withdrawal of travel documents because none of the courts had asked for it. And since we have therefore seen a problem that the perpetrators of criminal offences leave Croatia and go to a country whose citizenship also has to change or change the practice that the police are also checking and that they are going to take away the travel documents of one and another state to prevent escape to another country where they also have citizenship. I believe this idea and this advice don't bother you, maybe even benefits you. But maybe there's a regulation that needs to be changed. Give us one if there is one, suggest we settle it. It would be good to ask and see Mr. Minister to train the services to provide accurate information when asked. For example, how many final work permits were issued last year? There must be no such failures. The accuracy of this data must almost cost nothing. The law on preventing riots in sports stadiums. A provision has been introduced into the bill that if the police estimate that the organiser has not taken all necessary measures to ensure the safety of maintenance that it will prohibit the maintenance of the sports event. Can't "prohibit". "They will ban it." Here's a witness from the secretary of state. I said during the first riot at the sports stadium that it came to and the police didn't ban it before the event was held, I'd find it wrong for the first man of the police because such authority was asked by the police. There was no ban, there was a mess. It was a mess, but there was no ban on football stadiums. Because I know we should ban playing, say, Hajduk or Dinam for that, and that kind of political courage, unfortunately, does not exist yet. Public communication. Mr. Benko, Mr. Minister, are you listening to your field speakers report? The language to use, the way you're patterned. It's bureaucratic, it's repugnant. People are already irritated by that. Either stop it or change it. Improve, improve communication with the public urgently. A missing Australian case. A foreign citizen. I know a man can disappear anywhere and how. But in such cases, we need to be especially careful. If I were the head of the police chief, I would have the parents and the brothers of that young woman I invited to come from Australia to Croatia. He would invite them to come to Croatia. Not that they're coming alone. It's also a risk to the international reputation of the police because I've been monitoring Australian media, especially on the Internet, what they're saying and writing about it. And we can't fix that anymore. "Croatian police for 14 days," I quote their comments and claims "nothing did to find a woman until her brother came to Dubrovnik". And whatever you claim afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17520	Appreciation
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17521	And whatever you say later, we won't be able to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17522	You've got yourself a joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17523	Not yet, yet the titre.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17524	It's over. It's over. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'll tell them later. ... No, we have two, first of all, a correction to the incorrect allegations of the distinguished counsel of Shuica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17525	Here, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, my colleagues and colleagues, I would like to correct the completely incorrect allegations of a representative who said that the Croatian police had been doing nothing for 14 days. If she worked anywhere then on this case so intensively, I can freely testify before this Parliament all 14 days. On today, 100 police officers are intensively searching the terrain and we've turned on the maximum and as it was just before in the debate, but I didn't want to report back, Mr. Jarnjak said that the role of the local community, local administration and self-government has turned on as much as possible, but something that isn't in our power is not in our power. Both parents and their brother and the Australian Embassy have contact with the President of the Australian Parliament on Saturday. So I think it's done the most on our part, and it shouldn't affect the situation at all, but I'm looking at it now, even though it's not me. Correction [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What my colleague said the tourists wouldn't come to Dubrovnik. [[/Intruder: Time's up. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17526	Now we have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You asked your colleague Lesar why the crime police don't have the first man? I think it's a very, very important question because it actually testifies to the inferiority of the system that leads the police in a very delicate question where you can get the impression that the service can't function normally if there's no first man, and I don't want to believe it. The service works and must act but it is certainly very important to know who is in charge of it. But it's not the only thing the Croatian police don't have. I'm gonna turn from another rakours so I'm gonna ask why my county is the only one who doesn't have a police department in this country? Why doesn't my county have a single police station? Why is my town the sixth largest city in the country the only one who doesn't have a license plate? That's what you're responsible for. You make the decisions. And therefore, Mr. Lesar has many questions that could be asked in the context of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17528	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17529	It's really important to listen when someone's saying something and then not fall into the trap of correcting the false allegations about what I didn't even say and so thank you for listening to me carefully when I asked that question. It is also my question as well as yours is in the context of giving, providing assistance because if there is a problem with the appointment of the first man of crime police who is tied to Parliament's jurisdiction and we don't know it then we should be told, and if we do not know and do nothing then we are the accomplices of such a situation and that is why it is really important and I expect that we get the real answer to this essential question. As well as what is mentioned in this report, the criminal acts of interest agreements, illegal loans and loans which are also seen as one of the emerging forms of crime cannot understand how to say the contact of police officers when walking on tram stations in Zagreb can't take off those ads where they offer interest rates where even phone numbers are offered and give to the authorities at the police station or the administration to find out who is offering the credit. But obviously there was a problem with the fact that most of the phones led to banks and savings-credit cooperatives, and then there was a further phone call, so we can't figure out who's offering the loan contracts, illegal loans, and loans other than their cell numbers?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17530	Thank you. And the second is, the second is the esteemed representative Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17531	Mr. Vice President, here's a brief replica to Mr. Lesar or a colleague of Lesar, and it relates to the data that he was comparing in the report normally between the Istrian County and other continental counties. I must say here that it is well known that the Istrian County is a tourist county, that it achieves about 30% of the tourist traffic of the Republic of Croatia, that in the summer in the Istrian County it is somewhere twice the population to say so. So 400,000 versus 208,000 of the population. It means 2,000 more guests, and it is clear that the number of crimes, including the number of employees in the police administration, is higher in that part and one undiscovered is higher for the reasons of criminal acts which are still partly related to the tourist season, and are linked closely to thefts, means or abuse of intoxicating drugs that occur during the tourist season. So our evaluation I will briefly state the situation in the Istra Police Administration given that we are considering reports and through the executive power is that it is satisfactory. In that part, it is very difficult to compartmente continental counties and coastal areas in the indicators that have been presented. But certainly the minister will answer better.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17532	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17533	And you see, a respected colleague, how risky it is to quote other people's documents, data or statements and headlines from the Australian media. I've also noticed this problem and I've asked a question. Namely, the number of residents, tourists and everything else you've given no reason to this dilemma of mine can't be, because the number of crimes committed on 100,000 inhabitants is at 100,000 people. I don't believe it's for Istria, that everything else behind the 2,000th party committed, say, in Istria. I just doubt that. So there's a secret we don't know and I'm just looking for an answer without saying anything. Just as I did not claim that the police did nothing in Dubrovnik to find Australia, I quoted the headlines of Australian media and top news from Internet television. They say so, not me. Well, the second time I'm corrected, I need to be very careful. I need you to listen to me because I don't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17534	It was a replica, not a chatter. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Director, colleagues and colleagues, the Secretary of State, I'm sorry. You see, as long as it is possible for citizens, while citizens are beaten here and there with a bat in the middle of the day and in front of the state institutions, the ministers are in the middle of a white day, we are here at dusk away from the public's eyes discussing it. Is that a little absurd? Is that normal? Is that grotesque? Well, then I'm not surprised the Minister's mistake must be public, which secretly. It's all mixed up. So, things aren't exactly normal with us in the state of Croatia. The question of the security of the citizens, it's not just about their feelings, it's about their perception. It's a matter of their good eyesight. They saw it, but Mr. Minister, Mr. Director, the secretary of state didn't see statistics or numbers saw people on the floor covered in blood and it's not delicious, it's not polite not to talk humanly as we discuss people here, human fates, human lives, the lives of our citizens and fellow citizens, not numbers. Well, shall we, because the matter of statistics is a matter of data, so it's not a plugin for the rest of our conscience. Are we going to better deliver a copy of the statistics to those people who have been beaten? So listen, we'll give 'em a pat. It's not so bad, look how the statistics say nothing is. It's worse somewhere. Well, what kind of message is that? But you can see how your stats are, too. Cases we're talking about that have been going on lately that don't happen under cover of night anymore, but in broad daylight. What does it say about these not direct executioners, but about the contractors of the job? No one can do anything to us! We're not afraid of power! Maybe someone powerful is behind us! It's messages that monsters and these hit men and craft killers send, and it's normal for them to carry, to go to the citizens as a message. And that's exactly why citizens feel that way. This kind of murder, or murder, which, fortunately, remained an attempt, is not a murder or attempted murder by some drunks in some pubs that have been and will always be. This is a question of the modern and recent years of the monster that is happening in Croatia, which the government does not particularly sanction, or disseminating in criminal law. The question of hit men, the orderlies, the ones who kill like they're doing the most innocent jobs is no ordinary murder. There's a life in prison for those everywhere, and we don't know them from an ordinary drunk who can pull a knife or a firearm in a pub. This is much more dangerous behavior, and it's detected everywhere, and it's how it's treated everywhere. That's why the issue of security goes beyond the question of the ability and will of the police, the regular forces, and even one ministry. It is a matter of responsibility for the authorities as well as the question and standards of citizens. That's why the government is responsible. And this is a security issue that we often see as not a question of particular interest and message, because the private detectives here recently we've been discussing this law, they can get a job, and even then, when they're not only jeopardizing safety, but when they're killing some people on the roads. So this is a question that the government needs to resolve, which is the executive power that needs to be resolved. The issue of persecuting and sanctioning these, and then we wouldn't have a scandalous thing that's making our public miserable that the perpetrators of the job, the criminal, the most criminal, can hardly imagine 16 months in prison at all. Because it's so imperative in law, because that's how you turned down our proposal when, for those of us, for murderers, the SDP killer suggested life imprisonment. Now you see it again from time to time it comes up to date. Because we've seen that it's possible, so with many innovations, we're coming at a monster like this. Before European wages, this arrived in Croatia. Therefore, it is certain that both the bodies of persecution and those who later participate in the detection process, including sanctioning, can have adequate tools in their hands. Of course it also raises the issue of efficiency, i.e. the issue of politicisation or depoliticisation of the police. This one's on, we'll put the other one on. There's already been talk here that these experiments are devastating. The more experimentation, the more imminent the victims. How is it possible that a conscious cop who discovers... It's a long way from the police to go to the State's Attorney's office, and then from there to the investigation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the other way around, I'm not talking about the responsibility of this person or those who are involved in all this, but the question is when the process is being conducted, says help. We're helping, first we helped with the bill. You refused. Once again, if we've lost some time, consider this novel that we're talking about. The Criminal Procedure Act is also under procedure. It's not possible that when a crime occurs that in the process of discovery, we still have two lines of command. So, the State's Attorney's office will order, but the executor will not answer to the State's attorney's office but will answer to the director, or the police minister. That's not good. He who gives the commandments is to him and must answer. It deviated from the basic principle in the CAP, but we were warning and we were afraid it would happen. But a government that is sure of itself is not afraid to give such power to a judicial authority as the state's attorney's office in the broadest sense of the word. Not because you would trust him more than the police because the practice of doing her well if we had two lines of command. The planning forces should be placed absolutely in this segment of the command responsibility of the State Attorney's Office which will then be responsible for the outcome of the procedure. It will no longer be possible to establish a procedure since the transfer of responsibility to each other. There have been talks here about corruption and economic crime, data are fatal. There's a lot of rejections about this. That's exactly what we talked about. That's where the SDP helped, too. We've made up economic incriminations that are closely linked to corruption. We're not talking about corruption, this street and the corruption of blue envelopes, we're talking about that corruption that can't fit into blue envelopes, this corruption we're talking about, political corruption. Is it possible that the businessmen who faced this, who warned, who were first confidents, the police who reported it, then nothing happens, but what happens? It happens to them, the financial police and the tax administration are coming and they've been standing in these companies for years. And not one, always. Even people who complain that they haven't been paid money from some job get tax administration. Well, none of them are immune from such inspections, but is it a message that it's precisely those who seek the achievement of their rights, who point to corruption that the government is sending them financial police, that's a message. And as long as that happens, and it always does, it's not just a coincidence, it's always one case that reported you to corruption that got the financial police and the tax administration and management after that. It's a message then that citizens realize that the state does not want to fight political corruption, but finds out here and there in that octopus which foot, and does not want to reach its head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17536	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly stated that the report before us speaks exclusively to statistics, not to specific cases of people. There are specific cases behind each of these numbers. The 96% of the most serious crimes solved are specific cases. Do you want the names of the victims, the names of the murderers that were captured? Do you want to do that maybe? Second thing, you're saying the police don't want to deal with corruption. That's not true. So all that's happening right now is that the police want to deal with this problem and they really want to solve current and acute cases. That's no reason to accuse the police in that way. And the report is very lifelike and highly reflective. Today these statistics don't match you, and when we talk about other statistics, then you refer to them. Well, that's amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17538	Thank you. And we have one replica, it's the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17539	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević, through the debate, mention statistics as statistics are good, but especially here, we heard Prime Minister Sanader who said he was in America, and in America as much worse statistics, it's much more insecure than in Croatia. Such statistics were also favourable for Croatia and in 2003 and the 1990s. Years, probably 60. year, and does this mean that we were satisfied with the state of security that is in Croatia? What's more important than what you're talking about right now, which is what kind of messages, I wouldn't tell the police again, say what kind of messages the government sends to Croatian citizens? Galinac case? Report a felony, it will end up in a drawer until you get it over your head, so to speak, it's kind of wrong for me to use that word because a man really got hurt. The Rajenovic case? You'll get the same in your head, the perpetrators will be found, the employers probably never will. The Brodosplit case? First we'll say there are no elements of the crime, and then someone outside will tell us, and then there's something weird going on. Something's wrong, let's take a look, check it out, etc. The Index case? You will be suspected in cooperation with certain media, and if you are, and are likely to be among these people and be those who will be freed, I will not prejudge what will happen, but very likely some of these hundreds of people will be released, they will not be convicted, but to whom they will later explain that there may have been no elements, etc. It's always possible in this business, of course, but it's much worse when dealing with the media and when such an atmosphere is already created in advance around these people. So I would say to my colleague Anticevic that it is a much stronger message from the authorities to Croatian citizens... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17540	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17541	I'll bring it in, just so my colleagues don't shut me out. Maybe one sentence. So it's much more important what kind of message the government is going to give to Croatian citizens than whether statistics are like this or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17542	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17543	It is certain that the problems will not be solved on their own, and at least the problems will be solved by reducing their importance. In fact, by reducing the smile on people's faces when things like this are so horrible on the wallpaper, one message is being sent, that we're getting used to it, it's terrible what the Prime Minister said, that there's that in America too. That there's that in America, too. So a message is being sent when just some, when they can't get corpses off the roads, beaten people who have tried to kill, removed, or removed from public insight, then one message like this is being sent, and if it hadn't been for us, it would have been worse. And you see that encourages it then. We must do everything, that such ones, to discourage those who intend to do this again or something like this or worse. And something like this, thus reducing the importance of such things and problems in which Croatia has found itself, sending a message and encouraging such potential perpetrators, and that is dangerous, and we must all be careful when we are talking about this particular subject and how we are discussing and how we behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17544	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17545	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm just going to take a little look around this particular use of the wrong data. It's not the most difficult cases solved with 96%, but we have the exact fact that this statistical report said that the murders were solved with 96%, as it was originally said and because of some of the previous reasons. Because if we were to go through that kind of statistics, it happened to me once that I had a 106% just because we had some resolved cases from before. But it's not what the debate is supposed to be here, so let's not compete, because if we're going to get reports from 2000, 2003, what's important. After all, we could compare reports where we had a situation before 2000, so what will help us? I really plead that by talking here we try to find a way for this Parliament to send a message, so all together, what is it that needs to help the Croatian police and what is this time to make the security situation better because I am convinced that you all want us to have what I said at first, the better the police and that it works better. So let's just say that there's an additional false record, and that's the worst thing that's not solved at that time. Zagorac was beaten at that time, and we don't mention him for what reason. Let's not go into those options, I don't think these cases are good. Also, this game with the variant that the president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has hitched off, I guess it's clear to all of us here, the cameras have been shut down, there's no need to be out, I mean special details. It's all an integral part of ours as we say preparation for the session, but the fact is that if 9.7th report was sent in the 5th month we asked for it, 14.7. The Constitution stopped us and said that two months we had to rest, we started, and then we had a break from that committee. So I don't think there's any need for that kind of thing to go on such a serious subject. What is important to me, and that is that we are all actually faced with a single impression that I have about the Croatian police and I think that there was a Vice President Jarnjak right that you can get the impression in some way to participate in something that is not in Croatia's interest. In fact, talking about this problem is really the case, but then the first one could be answered by Croatian journalists, because I have no intention of reading to you here what the headlines of all the daily pages, Internet portals, television, etc. and what's the first thing. It is clear to all of us that it is a black chronicle, that violence is the first thing that happens there and what I think would be important to remember that sentence 1% of the security of events is what affects the creation of the impression of uncertainty among citizens with all the other elements. The assessment of the state of security in society is a result of statistics, media images of the situation and subjective sense of the security of citizens. Just these naked police statistics on crime I'm not going to convince the citizens of a good state of security. Secondly, the unsuccessful outcomes of what we lack, the epilogue judicial, because mathematics is very clear. Police catch 30,000 perpetrators of this, 20 per cent of them are re-reciprosts, courts about to condemn 12,000 people annually, and in Croatian prisons there are up to 4.5 thousand people in support of years of imprisonment. There's something wrong with that math. So what I was saying about the absence of general prevention is that no one will help us and that ping-pong transfer responsibility or that someone else is guilty, mutual public accusations are not good, and I think that's what we should all work on together and that's to find a way and a solution because we can't be satisfied with the work of the police unless there's ultimately a judicial epilogue for such a person. As far as weight is concerned, just one example to tell you that traffic safety on the roads is worth the effort being made, but there is insufficient coordination with everyone else. The damage that comes from these events annually is worth it, meaning the annual budget that we set out for the Ministry of the Interior. 4 billion is the cost of, or damage to, traffic accidents if we want to use that data. What's important is that, in my view, the success of the police will depend on the approval of the public, and not on the concepts of how it is created either through statistics and on this plan of media image, I am convinced that it is the management structure of the Ministry of the Interior, above all, the minister in tactics, especially when it comes to sacrifice, honesty, openness to the public, to the measure that normally does not endanger police work along with good communication with the media and the partnership relationship that I think is good and desirable, I think one great thing is said, and a good thing. Because citizens' trust in the police is constantly on trial and that suggestion, I say no criticism, I think there's a missing strategy. You have a spokesman no one knows, that's what's not good. So he must have a proactive approach, or that he's trying to build this image that I'm sure we're all interested in. What I was saying at the beginning, and I keep saying, we still have a situation where this service costs 4 billion and 300 million kuna is the amount that we're giving to the ministry, I'm not going to... The police and the rest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2003, the last thing I know is that it was 3 billion and 100 million kuna. It's good that it's expensive to grow and we support it, but on the other hand we need to get away from the situation that we have, which is that it's a very small amount of money used for equipment to lack the part that we need to change our relationship, which is that 75% of the money goes to pay, or rewards to employees. So, there's no room for the police. Now, is this the situation, are we missing cops or do we have to reorganize better? Are we short on money so we can get better results? I'm ready to talk about it always here in the Parliament, I'm sure you'll find support here on the left and right. What I am convinced and what I am trying to send as a message is that police reform is necessary for the sake of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia, no European Union, because surely the environment for me is what is of interest to me, my child, I am sure of your families as well. And I stand for that safe Croatia in which justice and justice rule, in which citizens have to trust the police and I think there's a place where there's something extra to be done. We're just about to get into trouble. By entering the European Union, we are coming into a situation where new criminals will come, those who will use it means the situation of who we are and what we are and that finally Croatia when it enters that community and this becomes the space of their work, and there we must prove that we are capable of dealing with the domestics and then doing the work that will only reach us. That's why I think it takes a complete strategy to develop the police, and I'm sure that this Parliament can say a lot, because tomorrow, in the end, it should be the one to give that money. I also ask you to think about the salary of police officers, about the variable, you don't need to run away from some solutions that may have been good once, but the fact that they should be stimulated. There's no system to protect police officers from criminal groups. We expect him to work, to fight them, and he's not protected. We need to clearly and transparently resolve how promotion is going and not repeat the discussion from before, but we know it well. The chief police director should be allowed to become a person with rights and responsibilities, so to put him in a position to be elected to office. We have a situation in the police department right now that even the patterns aren't the same, but what matters to me is that there's this situation, which is that the ideas about what needs to be done, I'm sure we can be able to talk through it through strategy. What I want to send as the last message, what I think is important. The government, first of all, should allow the police to work, it is a job, but on the other hand they must feel the pulse as well of citizens who at this moment and for small things can feel insecure, that is enough reason not to write that it is not dramatic, but to try to find allies in this Parliament to all together respond to what is what is needed to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17546	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17547	I think the taste that fellow Ostojić told this debate should have just come to the attention of sending a message not only to the public, but above all to these criminals, first of all undiscovered that the state and society are not and will not capitulate before the most serious crimes. That the blade of criminal repression must be particularly sharpened and gained in intensity precisely for these social, very deadly and dangerous behaviors, to gain a sharpness, not an extremity that feeds statistics. So the negation of the actual state, the negation of these most deadly and disturbing events is not the way to do it. The way is precisely by further atrophiding the police repressive system that is exhausting, we see from all the statistical indicators in the dunging parts, but because it was put on him, not by his own fault, that he was also dealing with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17548	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17549	I would just like to answer one thing to my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, which is that with all due respect to everything we say about our opportunities and the environment in which we live, we could every time go from the data that I will confirm to you that they are much better than in another country, although I am not glad that we are at the level of Belarus and we are comparing ourselves with it, because we are not even a little democratic, so I cannot accept it as the one we are about to be at the same level. Just one important sentence, which is to advocate that the police have better conditions, to be a better media image, will not happen in a way that we will persuade the editors in the interest of not talking about security or talking to them, but by improving and the quality of the resolution of all those cases that are mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17550	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17551	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs. In recent days, even months, we've witnessed more newspaper texts, TV shows, radio shows. It's mostly texts and shows that talk about the failure and ineffectiveness of our MUP. The cause was heavy robbery, mob murder, beating up journalists, entrepreneurs and officials. The public also doesn't seem to be looking favorably at the effectiveness of the police. Public work is one of the important features of police activity in countries with democratic tradition. The matter and the success of the police depends on public approval, not on an idea that the police themselves create. By preventing and resolving the most difficult types of crime, police achieve and strengthen their public reputation. The assessment of the state of security in society is the result of statistics, media images of the situation and feelings of citizens' security. Only naked police statistics in crime won't convince our citizens of a good state of security. What I think is that police must successfully develop communication with the public through all kinds of media, and direct contact with citizens of police citizens, in order not to happen what we have these days on Police Day when people have the right to their own day, when they had the greatest right to be relaxed that day, our journalists protest against the work of the Ministry of the Interior. The courtesy of a police officer, the tactics of accessing citizens, the willingness to provide assistance, decent and cultural treatment, the personal orderliness of the officers are just some ways of gaining citizens' affection and creating a positive picture of police service and the public. I think most of our officers are just like that. But what happens to the MUP is what kind of process happens within the MUP is at what level of training, equipment, what kind of personnel policy, we in this report, at least I couldn't figure it out. We only have a bunch of statistics. I'm sure it's in all of us's best interests, that we have good police, fast, which is effective and that will solve problems. What I think is necessary, for example. improve and improve road safety. ...crime, endangering road safety is the most dangerous phenomenon. Annually, these are the data I received, annually being on the roads of the Republic of Croatia from 85 to 90 thousand traffic accidents. There are thousands of people who suffer traffic accidents annually, sometimes more than a total number of police officers. The five-year average is 660 dead. I think it's a really big number, it's a terrible problem, and it's keeping us down and all of us down. Maintaining public order and peace is also an important item in police work. Since Croatia is a tourist country, tourism is important for the economic development of Croatia, order and peace should be raised to a higher level although I find it satisfactory. The other day, on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I asked the Minister if we had, whether the MUP has a system of staff management according to European Union standards. That's what I asked why, because I have military experience and because we witness frequent unclear shifts by high-ranking police officers. It's not good to set someone up, so take it off after three months. We're sending the wrong idea the wrong picture of these people. That says there's no planical... sightings in the long run. In this sense, it is crucial that we choose police officers, how we train them, how we ensure their development in line with the needs of society and the changes that occur in society. We owe it... to the human resources management system. As part of human resources policy, police officers must be given higher education. In modern society, police work is increasingly complicated because without gaining new knowledge of the introduction of new technologies, it is hardly practically impossible to fight organised crime. All well-organised and run police organisations as well as military have carefully developed criteria and criteria to settle all types of jobs and the system of assessing each individual contribution to work. We haven't worked out that system yet, not even in the military, and I think the M.O.P. has made even less progress. It's the foundation of progress at work. It is therefore necessary to establish a system of responsibility for the results of work, the legality of conduct, the system of counselling and evaluation of individuals. What I miss in the report are the words modernization and information and salary increases. I received information that about 5% of the funds are allocated to modernization, which may be too small and yet I think it should certainly increase to one higher level, because only modern well-trained, well-equipped intervention police and special police and police officers can be successful at their work. The pay's too low. The average salary somewhere around 4000 kuna, and I think a cop who spends 8 hours down in the field, a cop who's the first pillar of defense from any form of criminality in the system must be simply better and better paid. It's the task of all of us, it's the task of this government, the next government, those governments up there that in any case and every time they can fix these people's material situation. And finally to conclude. The MUP needs me... strategic guidelines. I don't know if he has one. I know there are strategic guidelines in the army that are clearly planned. We have long-term development, the minister was in the Croatian Army we have long-term development, five-year development of the Croatian Army. It is well known and it is the Holy Scriptures to be followed and it is highly quality made and it is only necessary to direct energy to push it through to the end. Which will encourage the reforms launched, which will ensure the planned implementation of the MUP regardless of government policies that are being changed and which are coming and going. Mr. Vice President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17552	Thank you, too. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17553	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly said that we have a report in front of us that consists solely of statistics and figures. That's not true. We have 40 pages of very high-quality analysis based on numbers, of course, because analysis on numbers wouldn't be analytical. This isn't the police's fault. It's not. Second, it is incorrect to say an unfavorable report on traffic accidents. It is not the same because if you read the analysts, you would see that an unfavourable report was corrected in 2008 the number of traffic accidents is lower by 9.3%, perhaps because police are doing well, as the number of criminal and criminal reports has increased. And the other thing, if we were to read the analysis then we'd see that 100 thousand new vehicles were purchased in that period, of which 20,000 mopeds and engines, and we know how dangerous the means of transport is and 45 thousand new drivers are in traffic. So it's not good to look at just numbers, it's really to be analysed, and this report is very quality-accompanied.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17554	Thank you. Now it's the proud Sobol's honorary representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we are discussing a report by the interior minister on police performance at the May 2008 SDP club's request. The report has a June 2008 date, and we are now the beginning of 10 months 2008 and more or less in that report is talking about what happened last 2007 with one small piece, excuse me, the first 4 months of this year. The police director himself, Mr. Benko, at a college of police administrations, at the end of 2007, I think it was in Opatija that he said among other things that the perception of the citizens about the police is still unsatisfactory and that this is what needs to be taken care of in the system. In your conclusions, you too, Minister Roncevic, say that citizens form their sense of security and quality of protection on the basis of information published by the police and from personal experience. But the question is actually, doesn't it bother you as a minister any less that citizens are increasingly less trusting in the statistics and figures you're talking about, and more and more with their experiences, with their perceptions that, unfortunately, are actually negative for you? Whether you like it or not as a minister, your colleagues and colleagues ruling in Croatia prevailed on the ineffectiveness of the system in this police case when it comes to fighting organised crime, corruption, violence on the streets of our cities. You're fighting numbers from black and black chronicles in a way that you're replacing the commissioners, said someone like on the treadmill, and at the same time you don't know, or maybe you haven't yet agreed on who you're going to put at the head of the police crime, exactly that sector that's one of the most responsible for carrying out actions when it comes to organised economic and any other crime. The Prime Minister assures us and comforts us on his return from the white world that what we would like, that is, in America where he stayed for about seven, eight days is nothing better than worse. But neither you, Mr. Minister, nor I, nor my fellow parliamentary representatives, nor the citizens of this country live in America. We all live together in Croatia and black chronicles filled with our daily newspaper and the rest are full of news of violence in Croatia. And what we should be doing right now. Banning the publication of black chronicles, banning the publication of the titles of the type “three days we have called the police in vain. ” Among other things, the same title that went after a gang of hooligans attacked innocent young men in a Vrapac passerby. What do we do? If we were to eliminate these headlines, the newspaper would be best off writing about nothing, because that's all we'd be harassing our ministers. All actions, anti-corruption or whatever I call them, you've worked with the police, and you can't wash your responsibility because of it in a spectacular way. It was all with the presence of cameras and the last action that was in the most recent way so far because at the time it was even a question of choosing which daily newspapers and which paper will publish exclusive photos with detention, media attention with self-respect, and in fact after all, after these actions what was left. There's a blow-up balloon left. From “Maestra” remained a fragmented orchestra, and “Gruntovnica” for example, what turned into some kind of grantovite. Today, we are witnessing that those who were then taken in a spectacular manner and those who were spoken of and taken as an example of the true fight against corruption in Croatia today are under arrest and are already being prepared for lawsuits against Croatia. The latest cases, in fact, were those basic cases that prompted the SDP to react, among other things, when the journalist Miljuš was beaten. I can forgive you for your first reaction back then who was this Dusan Milush? I can tell you this, you were the new minister to say so, so there came a beaten Rajenović, the last one was beaten by Galinac and now it's really interesting about the Galinec case and the truth is, you suspended a cop who found himself for some five months looking or he, if anyone else, is now interested in whether he was holding another criminal charges in his drawer with help. And then, just when he was beaten the second day if I'm not mistaken, there comes that criminal application to the State's Attorney's office. I could talk about it, I don't know how much, but Mr. Minister, I'm going to take the opportunity to take advantage of you being here in Parliament, so I'm going to ask, since I've had my chances, unfortunately, and my family has in some way been under some kind of investigation and there's been a trial, etc. HDZ colleagues often knew this from these benches to rest, but not to say put it under their noses. But Mr. Minister, now that it's practically all in the end I'm asking how much I can feel safe for example, and how much more can it feel safe to be some other ordinary citizen under quotes, when, for example, in this particular case, it happened that in this particular case, the police, the police, someone in the police, I don't know who, almost two years, covered up the existence of documents and lied to the court that the documents that were ultimately liberating evidence had been persistently for two years, and then it was withdrawn from the papers that the documents didn't exist. I'm not asking you to tell me who it is right now. Now you're going to say, of course you're looking at me strangely, as if I don't know what I'm talking about. But you see, Mr. Minister, maybe you should take care of that too, so you realize that clearly inside the system there are some things that smell a little bit of politics. In this case, a family was accidentally known. And I ask you, imagine when such a thing happens and how you can convince me that such things don't happen in other cases. That's a crucial question. Not that it was me or my husband or someone else in the family, but that you can now convince me or the public or I don't know who else that such cases are gone. And how to restore confidence in your system when it comes to such things, and Mr. Minister, it happens in the police. And during that time, while it was running, while it may have been some other cases, they were absolutely not solved, or the police were obviously not in one part of the business they were supposed to be dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17556	Thank you very much. Registration of correction of incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17557	Dear Vice President, I must react to the complaint of my colleague from the SDP, as well as her other colleagues over Radinovic's fate and police impeachment for this. The key to the quick solution to fate, unfortunately, of the beaten Rajenovic, is not in the police, but in the SDP. If some SDP leaders cooperated with the police then the case would be resolved very quickly and both the client and the executioner would be known.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17558	Allegedly, correct your colleague's quote. Thank you. Application for correction of the incorrect quote Frano Matušić. Here you go, Your Honor. I'm asking for some fellow MPs! Fellow MPs! Here you go, Mr. Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17559	I ask you to allow me to use these sayings to be said. Fellow Sobol has incorrectly re-emerged as it has been several times since SDP attacked police for the spectacular actions they have carried out together with the other two state bodies, with USKOK and with the State's Attorney's Office. It is clear that the police have exclusively serviced and you cannot point a finger at the police that it is guilty of the spectacularness of the action. She didn't do it. Someone else does the spectacular, but the police don't. The police were only doing their job. What she's responsible for is what I am. It's the only thing she did. If you have evidence that someone from the police was dealing with this or with that information, then say it. Then report it. But you can't accuse the police of something that's absolutely certain she didn't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17560	Thank you very much. Replica esteemed representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17561	You're not shutting me down. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, listening to the afternoon debate on our police in Croatia, I didn't mean to get up on Mrs Sobol's line, but when she mentioned the cases of this last case, what they say about the Galinec case, the Radinovic case and so on. I'd just like to say one thing, what does logic impose? The case is being held by the director of Zagreb Roads. He's trading in a family relationship with a man with a mayor. There is a rotation of all the heads of the roadside town of Zagreb. What's going on? After that comes the case Rajedinovic. Gentlemen of the SDP... Don't shut me out. I've been listening all afternoon to you attack the Croatian police. Listen to the truth. Talk to those ordinary people who work in Zagreb roads so they'll tell you... /The address is off./... with the name and last name who are these people who order such cases? Doesn't that hurt your eyes? Bandic was looking for someone to get rid of that bastard. Is that what he's saying about you? Is that what he's saying about you? In order for you to hide all your incentives to violence in Zagreb, you created an attack on the Croatian police. So help me, your colleague Ostojic said we should help the Croatian police. So let's help the Croatian police shed light on the Radenovic case. I'll be grateful to you, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17562	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17563	I wasn't shutting you down. What you're talking about, Mrs. Solic. Well, look, there's a minister of police sitting right there for you. Isn't it the job of the minister, the director of the police to do the work that you're asking me to do? What are you talking about? What system do you want to create in this Croatia? I will, I'm asking the police to investigate and find if she found the perpetrators to choose to find the order. Well, whoever he is. That's what this is about. And that's where you and I are different. What? Do we calculate each other or do you calculate each other? What are you talking about? Are you aware of what you are saying here in this House? What kind of system do you want us to create? I only ask as a representative that the police in this Croatia do their job and be as effective as possible. If that's too much to ask, then I guess someone here has to resign. It's not Gordana Sobol, but then I guess it's the police minister if that's not how he can work. What's our goal? [[So tell me what your goal is.]] We're asking the police to be effective. And when it comes to Dusan Miljuš and when it comes to Igor Radjenovic and when it comes to Galinec and when it comes to all those who will tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and I don't know when to be beaten with baseball bats. And as we're on our way, I'm afraid there's going to be more. And I wonder who's safe at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17564	Thank you very much. It's next, according to reports, the distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17565	Dear Vice President, Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In my debate on this safety report, I won't use the numbers at all, I won't mention the statistics in any word. The figures represent the minister and, unfortunately, challenge the general revolution. Why? Because the figures point to a trend in reducing the number of criminal offences to be reported, and from that, the conclusion is actually on reducing the crime rate in Croatia. This conclusion based on statistics, I oppose the perception of citizens and the perception of citizens is that violence is actually escalating, that crimes are increasingly, that citizens are increasingly at risk, increasingly insecure, and in all aspects of their lives. So how is it that despite this perception of the number of criminal offences reported, they are reduced? The answer is simple. Because citizens are scared, because they don't dare sign up. It's too many unsolved cases, and it's a very bad message to our citizens. Because finding the perpetrators of crimes and offenders and ensuring their availability, I quote: "the competent authorities are one of the strategic tasks of the police". Of course, by the logic of the fact that not finding the perpetrator leads citizens to the conclusion that the police will not be able to protect them and reporting would in fact expose themselves to an additional risk of re-attacking. In this country, therefore, it is safer not to report any crimes. All these ghastly operational actions, my predecessors also called them spectacles and campaigns from Maestro to the Index, are, in some way, in such a situation of play with the goal of being primarily intimidated, to convince people that they can all be accused without real intention of finding the real culprits. After them remains one bitter taste, one bitter feeling because there is no satisfaction. There's no guilty party, and there's no punishment. Penalty is the only satisfaction for crime. This condition is causing resuscitation and apathy. One of the objective reasons for the unfavourable efficiency of the police is the personnel deficit for which we read this from the report, and who else but the on-call culprit of the coalition government from 2000 to 2003. The current government's personnel deficit is trying to resolve the overqualification programme for police interest. However, it is certain that such mass retraining procedures also recruit a number of unskilled people, and therefore there are no wonders where police officers are involved in the robbery and similar criminal acts. Despite the overqualifications, it's clear that the cops are too small. They're gone, they can't be seen. Besides, they're not adequately educated, and unfortunately they're not equipped. The working conditions are also not satisfactory. I will specify an example of the Međimurje Police Administration building which has not experienced any investment or restoration since the moment of its use, which is unacceptable. And I appeal, here I am using the opportunity to find resources in the budget for the next year, so in 2009, to provide for a more thorough reconstruction of the Međimurje Police Administration building with the aim of improving working conditions. The system of rewarding police officers and the need to protect against criminal gatherings was discussed by counterpart Ostojić, so I will not waste valuable time. Unlike most segments of this report, which talk about reducing the rate of crime, in one segment the rate is unmistakably increasing. It's domestic violence, then violence at the expense of minors, but also violence where minors are perpetrators. And this latter, therefore, the increase in violence against minors and violence of minors is particularly worrying because of this data not only scares us in this moment, so at present, these data force us to look at the future with fear and fear when these children will become adults. I will confirm this pessimistic vision with one last week's experience. In fact, when I came back from Parliament to my apartment one night last week, I was on a tram, on the Jelačić, a group, six, seven teenagers, picked up a newspaper from colporteurs, made bras out of these newspapers, and they threw it into people's headcarves, laughing, they enjoyed the show. Imagine, none of the people reacted, didn't dare. Fortunately, it was an innocent game based on, for example, brutal neighborhoods of kids or mass fights in front of schools that become a new violent trend, unfortunately with fatal consequences. The last victim of such a street massacre is Luka Ritz, and his friends, young people like him, also do not believe that the killer will ever be found, and they have shown this infidelity to posters which they have these days taped to Zagreb with a message: "Blessed is the man who does not accuse his own conscience." And to conclude, if I were the Home Secretary, I wouldn't boast too much of the data to reduce the number of reported cases of crime. I would actually imagine myself above this data because believe me colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, our citizens are much less burdened by the question of whether we will enter the European Union in 2009 or 2014 and which authority will bring us into the European Union. Our citizens are far more burdened by daily fears, fear of high inflation, fear of a huge minus in the current account, fear of losing their jobs, fear of underpriced and shamefully small wages, fear of countless other forms of exploitation by entrepreneurs, fear of inaccessible, and of course of needing health care, and of what we have been talking about all afternoon today, fear of bandits on our streets who abuse without fear of ever being discovered and sanctioned. So, only when we see that the perpetrators of criminal offences have been identified and punished, only then will trust be restored to the justice system, will the citizens then experience the police as a safe factor in deterring potential perpetrators from committing crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17566	Thank you, counsel. An Tomislav Culjak, a respected colleague, came forward to correct the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17567	Well, my colleague put out an allegation, which is that the minister is taking numbers and causing a revolt. I believe that the allegations are entirely incorrect because the minister is the figures that speak for the success of the work of the MUP and apparently these results say that Croatia is a safe country, and the question is what is the general revolution for you? Is that when you think it's something different or something you don't like? Is that what makes you feel like a general revolt? I don't even see in this side of the assembly some big revolt, I don't know where you found that general revolt in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17568	Thank you very much, colleague Chuljak. I see little that time does its part because when the debate is over and I gave you my word, then I saw that my colleague Grubisic raised the table, but it has already passed the time for this, so we can no longer replicate, and we can also replicate the correction of the quote. We're still up for our distinguished colleague, Ivan Hanzek. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next, dear colleague Joseph Leco. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I think the issue of national security or the issue of public security is one of the most important issues for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But let me say my opinion. The Home Secretary's report on police performance is not the government's report on the state of security in the country. And we have the government responsible for the state of security. That's what the Constitution says, Articles 112 and 113. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, I would like to propose the addition of the conclusions they have already heard here. Now. It is up to the government to report to the Croatian Parliament on the state of security in Croatia within 3 months. Why? Well, we hear here that in Maestro's action, the police are not responsible. He's transferring responsibility to someone else. Gentlemen of the Government, you are responsible for the Croatian Parliament and citizens, give us a full report on the state of security and then there will be no transfer here which institution is responsible for what. That's the one thing I wanted to say. And when it comes to statistics or a state of security assessment, I'd say so, and I'd point that out to the facts. In Croatia there were first murders in a criminal mile and none of them were enlightened or a small number was enlightened. We've received assurances that we have to deal with it. Behind that came the attacks on the businessmen, and here the minister lists from God Prka to Galinca and again tells us statistically we have to deal with it. Now there was an attack on the journalist. So the spiral of crime is growing and we have to make up again statistically. Because statisticalally, it's all within the limits. And the next one could be a minister or someone in power. Are you going to tell the ministers that it's consistent with the statistics, the average state of security is good. The spiral of crime is growing. First, criminals kill each other, then criminals beat the businessmen, and then they start beating the press, and now who's next, or we can reconcile that statistics have satisfied the state of security in the Republic of Croatia. We can't, Minister. I repeat, who's next. When it comes to a concrete action if you call it the Index. I already said that, I'll repeat why I think so. The easiest thing is to describe the "Index" action as the excessive shelling of Zagreb University. Excessive shelling of Zagreb University. This action was a demonstration for the public and for Europe. Maybe you didn't want to, I don't know who informed the press, but that's terrible. That's terrible. Any one caught and carried out in front of the cameras without someone qualified to find the blame is punished. It's even more punishment than setting a six-month sentence or a year allowance because both responsibility and status are socially different. They've already spoken here, so I won't say it again. In democratic states, universities are the biggest partners of the government. There is a concentration of knowledge of power, but they are also the government's greatest critics, so politics in these countries are not guided at the level of stories or stories or rhetoric, but are being led on by the problems that are scientifically identified in society and on these foundations are being planned. We mutilated Zagreb University with one action. And for whose needs? We'll see when the results are done. I am convinced that like many others, that corruption cannot be solved by any action, this is what our experience shows. Should we say that we did not finish the action as you call it again, as you call it, neither "Maestro" nor others that were called beautiful names and with many expectations. My belief is that in Croatian society it is still more important to be friends or to know the prime minister or someone from the government than to be taught, taken and able to succeed in the economy especially in business with the state. That is what the European Union is complaining about. This is the main objection made by the European Union. If Mr. Minister has any problems in ensuring the conditions of police work or money, I am convinced, regardless of the political colors or orientations, that you will receive support. I'm convinced that each of us is talking to various police officers and I haven't heard it once we know a lot more than we're being processed. It's a terrible charge of political will, political authority, but it proves the results. That proves the results. Police reveal various actions, various as they are already called indices, maestros or whatever, and then there's none of it at the end. There's nothing or too late. So "Maestro" is not a single debate yet, no one is charged. If this adds that the affairs that are called and cannot be called otherwise, none of them have ended up with the decision of the competent authority to say, is t t o we have checked, e.g. it works. Was it logical to expect that, on the question of the parliamentary representative, give us a public-private partnership contract "Sunish Hvar" to get that representative to see it because it is the property of citizens. Who's he hiding from? From the citizens whose property it is. Is it logical to expect someone to tell us how the case ended or how much it will cost Croatian citizens "Liburnia Riviera" hotels and the case with... Yeah, that's logical to expect. [[You don't understand.]] That's logical to expect. Tell us what bothers you about it. Is that the state's attorney's fault? Is that the court's fault? Tell the Parliament what this is about. So that's why I'm asking the government to go with a full assessment of public security and to give you what and where things are stopping. Of course the Ministers didn't even care for you here. I'd understand what it means to have the government behind you. One more sentence. When all these hanging or in the course of cases are processed, go to the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament and tell them that you failed to do the right jobs in the action, because those you have closed and held for a year in prison obviously, after the Supreme Court's decision, have already exceeded the measure for what is burdening them. If you do not do so, there will be doubts about you and the government that it is a play, not a real fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17570	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you incorrectly told your colleague, Leco, that he was trying to transfer the police's responsibility to someone else. We don't transfer responsibility, first of all, we're not accusing the police of anything in this particular case, in any particular case. We said the police couldn't be responsible for the spectacular way to bring them in. I agree with all those who said they shouldn't have come out with names, of course they should be dealt with at other levels. It's not a police matter. She was doing her part of the job. Secondly, we didn't call that action "Maestro or "Index" action. They were called State's Attorney and Hoping. They ran them under that name and spent months conducting investigations. So it's not our invention. It's their way of working and calling certain actions. And third, you said that experience teaches you that being a good acquaintance with the prime minister is better than being a good entrepreneur. Obviously, you gained this experience from 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17572	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Romana Jerkovic. Here are my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it seems to me that every citizen in this beautiful Croatia is already perfectly clear that nothing, but nothing else can happen without our current interior minister resigning. And I'm really wondering where the boundaries are and who set those limits? What else can or should happen so that you ministers as a man, not as a minister, but as a man, share responsibility for the situation in society today? And I don't understand what reference it is to what skills and knowledge you're holding in the minister's position at the same time as the catastrophic situation in the vault you're leading. Well, I don't think you in HDZ actually have anyone who could replace the current minister. It wouldn't be good to get used to being a donkey and learn that violence is a everyday phenomenon in our streets. It's been arranged in a way that really, really, there's a real danger of such a thing happening. I personally believe that the key problem, that the underlying problem is the police's fundamental problem and attitude towards the current developments, is that the MUP is actually acting equally towards all events. Yeah. Every victim deserves an investigation and every aggression deserves punishment because the victim is a victim, but no one can convince me that every violence is the same. There is violence for the violence that has always been, which is everywhere, which we must never tolerate, which we must all fight absolutely, and there is violence with a message. There's violence with a message. What we need at this point, at this time of society, is particularly concerned about this particular violence with a message. When in broad daylight, someone dares to beat up a public worker, then it contains a strong message and we must ask ourselves what is behind that message, and I believe that the MUP is an institution whose obligation should be to find a message of violence. I think that, as a society, we simply have to have fun, against it, and you in power and we in opposition, but at this point you're in power, you're responsible because you have both skirts and scissors. The public's looking for the Minister's employers. The public is looking for employers. But I think the public is created when they think that employers are always people with a name and name. Mr. Minister, employers can also be the social relations that you, with your policy or anti-political policy, better to say, create. These social relations you create and support are also fertile soils for violence, for corruption, and they are actually employers who force marginalists to listen and raise their hands to individuals. We in the SDP advocate to change such social relations that I think should be taught by our own children, we should simply create new values. What values do we today promote by our inaction, our tolerance for beating, our silence? We promote violence, we promote modus operanda through corpses to success, beats and orders, beats without consequences, and here it is the highest level responsibility, and therefore it is the right thing to do with moral and others that are ineffective, which are irresponsible and inactive. And that's why we point our finger at you and your ministry, not in the work of the police, as we try to impute a representative of the Jarnjak. I don't know whether or not you're listening too much, and I don't know if you understand what I'm talking about. You're arguing that the investigation is ongoing, that the investigation process is ongoing, the results are gone and gone. I think the wisdom and responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, with you headed to assess which evil is greater, because it is not the same settlement in which in broad daylight in the middle of the country's capital, a beaten journalist and a settlement during which someone is left without a purse or wallet to avoid the responsibility for their inaction you put everything in the same basket. It is not only about the responsibility of the function that you have well sat down to, but also about moral responsibility, and why in a civilized European country, the minister would have stepped down a long time ago. You know why? It's my personal opinion I have the right to my position. Because the messages of violence touch the very foundation of Croatian society and they are not really aimed at the victim of violence but at society as a whole, because I am told that if I am like Miljuš, I will go where I don't belong, the same way he does. It's a message to me, it's a message to my family, it's a message to everyone. And I can't look at it quietly without talking about it and not saying my position, because it's getting in the way of what the Constitution is guaranteed to you in elemental freedoms, freedom to speak of freedom to do, to write. The minister is not a man who can be justified by statistics but by a general climate in society. That's what my colleagues were talking about before me. Your key guilt by the Minister is not that you have launched proceedings and investigations that are not yet completed, but because of the ineffectiveness and non-prevention you create such social relations in which we citizens feel insecure and uncomfortable. And of course it's not an argument for security in one city in a country of violence and statistics, but as I said the general climate, the sense of freedom, I think that's all logic is real and life. And that is why it is really humiliating and devastating when the prime minister himself tells us that the situation in Croatia is good, as we heard before is it in your tone much worse than in Croatia, and now I should feel better and easier and better asleep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17574	Thank you very much. A prominent colleague, Nevenka Majdenic, came forward to correct the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17575	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would correct the alleged, incorrect allegations by MP Jerkovic, who said that we are creating social relations here that are a message for corruption, so there is no protection of citizens and that the SDP stands for it. Now, my dear colleague, it's not true. On the contrary, the social relations created by this government is that these are anti-corruption relations and are for the protection of citizens, but when you mention your SDP party, then I will remind you. When it came to corruption that took place in 2002, I can say that because it mentioned SDP, then it should be said that the law said that a commission would be set up to implement measures against corruption. From February 2002 until the end of your term of office in 2003, it was difficult for the SDP authorities to establish this commission, and as for the protection of citizens,
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17576	My colleagues, Nevenka, you must correct this.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17577	Well, here I am correcting it. That's it. The SDP doesn't stand for it. And something else when we talk about the protection of citizens, ask your former SDP ministers why in 2001 there are about 3 thousand 500 police officers and tenants away from the system with an explanation that they are overnumbered.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17578	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17579	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17580	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17581	... 210, in which Mr. Vice President, you should warn your dear colleague to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17582	I'm warning you. Here. I warned you twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17583	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17584	I warned you twice. Correct the wrong allegations. Dear counterpart Boris Matkovic has come forward to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17585	Dear Mr. Vice President, thank you. I must correct my esteemed colleague, Jerkovic, on the untrue assumption that it is, the responsibility is at the highest level. Actually, it's a lie. The truth is quite different from colleagues Jerkovic, which is that you on the left side of the assembly are creating a syndrome of a predetermined culprit, and in your opinion it's government and prime minister, they're blood for all the problems you've been eating clearly, you're also talking about honesty, so here I am now trying to invite you to honestly admit that you're distorting the truth and creating a perception of the people in the way you express it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17586	Thank you. We have a report for replication. Dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to give my colleague a chance to maybe some of the thesis that she may have awkwardly said to fix them and the answer to the replica. I can't believe you believe there's tolerance to violence, especially in the Ministry of the Interior, whose report we have here today. That tolerance is zero. Simply tolerance to violence is zero. There is no tolerance to violence in the Ministry of the Interior either in the State's Attorney's Office or in the USKOK, or in other institutions dealing with this social phenomenon and problem. Also, the political will absolutely exists to solve all these problems, and it is clearly demonstrated. Why a few years ago wasn't a strong enough jump to lead the action, that's another question. Why this awaited the Croatian Democratic Community's mandate to strengthen the USKOK as an institution in 2004, that is another issue. In any case, we have also demonstrated the political will in this House, and through the ministries, and through the government's work that we really want to tackle and that we are dealing with the biggest problems that are plagued by Croatian society today. The second thing, you can't talk unargumented about the processes that are now happening. In particular, investigations into beatings or murder investigations, etc. So you have to have a concrete argument that someone is obstructing that kind of investigation. Neither can the interior minister talk about an ongoing investigation. And he can't talk like that about this case that I've repeatedly repeated here today in the assembly that's a pretty apostrophe case of Radjenovic. We really doubt today after all these discussions based on your SDP statements what was really going on? Obviously you have some knowledge, your colleagues, I don't speak specifically of you but your colleagues obviously have some knowledge far more than we do, and apparently from the repressive apparatus of this country. So it's obvious that there's something going on and hiding in the SDP in this particular case. I don't want to impute anyone to do this or that, but it's quite clear from what can be seen through the media what's going on. We can't blame that on the Ministry of the Interior. That's what he's doing. Do yours, all that is clearly prescribed by law, what you can do and I am convinced that ultimately you will come to and those final results such as the discovery of those who are potential employers in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17588	Thanks a lot, buddy. A colleague of Ostojić's. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17589	Correction or violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I raised Article 210. I would ask you, Mr. Vice President, to warn Representative Matusic or at least to be the same criteria as everyone else. Every time a correction is used for [[I said, "Time!"]] [[Intruder: That wasn't the correction.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17590	No, this was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17591	Then I apologize. Excuse me, Mr. Matusic, if that's what happened. ... Vice President, too. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17592	This was a replica and I give the word to the esteemed A colleague so she could use the right answer to the replica. [[Intruder: Apology.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17593	Thank you, colleague Matušić, for giving me a gentleman's opportunity to supplement what I said before, although I don't really need it because I stand behind every word I've said. And as far as political will is concerned. I further argue that in order to solve the crucial problems in this society, today we are talking about the security of citizens, we are talking about the work of the Ministry of the Interior there should be political will. And I believe that, I believe, or I don't have what's based on what's really real, what's going on in the last three months, six months, six months, we have no reason to be optimistic that things are going to change drastically in the next period. So I'm still saying that there's no political will to deal with the bad things in this society right now. And I'm expressing my suspicion that it will be so soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17594	Thank you very much, colleague. It's time for the distinguished colleague Željko Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am, before I start the debate to look back at the replicas, it's my debate, so I can, now that my colleague Majdenic, Matkovic and Matosic have tried to talk again about why we no longer did it in the fight with corruption as one important segment of crime. So I will repeat one famous saying: "Every authority corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. In Croatia, out of 18 years of independence in HDZ authorities, there are 14 years." Therefore, it is clear who is responsible for the situation we have today and for corruption and organised crime. We have three thousand 500 fired officers in our term of office all the time. My colleague Matkovic, how many of you returned to work when you came to power from those 3,000 and 500? He says, "Why do we keep saying that citizens feel insecure?" So colleagues and colleagues, last week, a survey was published on a sample of a thousand Croatian citizens who said largely that they felt insecure and that the biggest problem in Croatia was corruption, organised crime and failure to meet their obligations to citizens." This was published in all the media. This was conducted by an independent institution. So that's not what the SDP said. Is statistics a good safety indicator? This delegation for the assessment of Croatia's rights, freedom and security in June 2008 so another independent man said, "No matter what statistics show a certain degree of professionality between USKOK and MUP should be significantly improved against high-level corruption." Who is to blame? Is it Hoping's fault? Is it the M.O.P.'s fault? ... This is said by the rapporteur of the European Commission for Croatia, not Djordje Balašević, and please do not throw it to me as you speak, Mr Matušić. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Where's your culture? The same gentleman says: "Re-evaluate the 2007 report's recommendation on corruption with the aim of establishing a special inter-resor police unit that would be managed and commanded by the USKOK to effectively increase independence and efficiency in the fight against high-level corruption, making it clear how it feels about the effectiveness of the national police squad founded on paper alone. Therefore, our colleagues and colleagues today were able to take a critical look at the situation and at least offer a vision in which he thinks that in the future, police effectiveness will increase in solving all forms of crime in Croatia. But what can I read from his speech? He says, "I assure you that we are still working to resolve the 2002 attack on Mr. Prka." My colleagues and colleagues mean that the attack on Radinović, Miljusa, Galinca will be resolved sometime after 2014. In June 2008, at a session of the National Council of Parliament for the Monitoring of Corruption Prevention Programmes, representatives of journalists handed us a white book. The white book speaks of attacks on journalists, and unfortunately the document lives because it keeps increasing. She speaks of threats to journalists, members of their families to cases of physical assault, beating and finally unfortunately until attempted murder... A journalist named Miljuš. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was just the attack on Miljuš that followed the beating of Igor Radenovic that led to this book. What do the data show you? They show that in Croatia there is systematic pressure on researchers who are dealing with the discovery of the fabric of the economic lobby, organised crime and politicians. Pressures and attacks that were in the 1990s have been fraught with journalists who wrote about war profits, however, today, shagging journalists mainly refers to those who are trying to expose corruption in the economy, justice or state authorities from local to state government level. What is the view of the ineffectiveness of the police? So as journalists reported all these attacks to the police, none of them were solved or prosecuted if the attacker was not found on the scene. Not a single attack and I have there, 42 are listed, not resolved unless the attacker I repeat has been discovered on site. That is why today we must say that Croatian citizens do not feel safe and that the thinking of crime is prevailing whether corruption or other forms of organised crime should not even be fought. You should let them go. And that's exactly what organized crime is all about. So, despite the political will that's listed on the paper, I don't see the strength to resist the mob, which is exactly what they want. So who's the most responsible for it if it's not Minister Roncevic and the prime minister who's protecting him. Most cops do their job responsibly and sacrificedly. However, the prime minister and prime minister are responsible for organising their work, for logistics, for human resources, for education. And when it comes to fighting corruption and organised crime, it is too much for us in Croatia, too many unfinished shows that are lacking in the final act, which is a powerful verdict, from “Maestra” who turned out to be a comedy for the European Union, through the tragedy with the investigation and the indictment that the attackers of Igor Radenovic are literally rewarded to the attempted murder of Dusan Miljuš, who is now safe, doesn't have to be afraid, no guards, is not practically in custody because in America until “Index” which unfortunately turned out to be a real reality show. Therefore, the real readiness to solve corruption and organised crime is lower, and therefore the positive parts of these actions are overshadowed by all that has been happening to the police, let's call them the Maestro 17 anti-corruption actions in Croatia. Since 2006, we have come to a single inadmissible verdict in these 17 maestro actions, a person who is inaccessible to the Croatian judiciary because she has fled across the border from those same officers. Fighting corruption and organised crime requires absolute and impeccable co-operation between police, lawyers and the judiciary. Unless attacks against citizens who report in good faith corruption or journalists who reveal a trail of dirty money show where the software is and where the hardware of organised crime is sent a message that crime has won the state. Who's responsible if he's not Minister Roncevic? Because of his inefficiencies the citizens and journalists who reported the criminal acts wanted you to admit it or not got not a confession, but a beating on the head and live today in... Atmospheres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He's under house arrest, and those who attacked them, ordered attacks, are free to walk in cafes and restaurants. Therefore, I really think it is sad that the minister has assessed the security situation in his introduction today only because of statistical indicators. In fact, people are not figures, and the paper suffers everything, so this report, which it says, shows that nothing dramatic is happening in Croatia today on the public security plan and that there is nothing that we have not experienced in the past ten years. But therefore, the personal experience of Mr. Minister of our citizens says that Croatia today is an expensive, inefficient, corrupt state in which inflation is double the growth of GDP, in which citizens live more and more difficult and they feel insecure while criminals are increasingly boasting about citizens if they stand in their way. And another show directed after the beating of Mr. Galinc at the cabinet session, where the director played the anger, the rest again without the final act – your resignations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17596	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Ivanovic incorrectly claimed that Croatian corruption has been responsible for HDZ because 14 years in power since the Croatian state was independent. So where did you live a colleague before 1990? In a totalitarian regime that inaugurated the behavior that everyone is equal, only that some are more equal, where corruption flourished, where each common good was ruined thanks to the party behavior of your predecessors whose colors you inherited and voluntarily took over. Or should I remind you of the cases since 2000 when you were selling out Dubrovnik hotels for a bagatella to your friends? What corruption are you accusing of HDZ? What are you talking about? And about the other culture, I didn't hear who you quoted, so I asked you who you quoted. Mr. Hanne Freedom wrote a few days ago that Croatia was never better. That's the same gentleman you call upon. And the fish quotes what the Croatian media says and what some politicians sitting in opposition benches say. Therefore, you need to know the situation in order to know what you are talking about. And secondly, my colleague Freedom is otherwise a member of your socialist group.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17598	Thank you very much. Further correction of the incorrect quote Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17599	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I didn't mean tonight for more time. But I have to answer to an esteemed colleague, Jovanovic, for telling a lie, but by the way, he confirmed one from just before my truth. You mentioned something I didn't say, which refers to 3,000 signed cops. It is obvious that you do not listen to what others say, but that is what you confirm, and it is true that you distort things just like I said before. It's also true that it's a domestic item for you as a child, and I expect soon to declare the minister and prime minister guilty of the US stock market at the very least.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17600	Allegation. The quote should be corrected by a colleague. This whole U.S. Stock Exchange thing we didn't really hear. But next thing you know, an esteemed colleague named Danesh Shaw has signed up. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17601	Of course, for a little while. Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let me refer to the contents of this report with a few sentences. In fact, I've made a lot of notes to myself, but that's already what this debate was about, so I'm really going to try to be very brief. First of all, I don't understand this information here about criminal acts on 100,000 residents. This seems amazing even if it compares in 2007 and 2006 according to Interpol data that in Germany almost 6000 or 7600 crimes per 100,000 inhabitants, and in our case it is 1730. If we look at these data and if it is recorded by the same methodology or similar, then I simply cannot imagine a debate in the German Parliament, or the Bundestag that they are discussing the security situation if it is to believe these data, and probably all that stands. Furthermore, in this chapter terrorism and extreme violence are given a finding where they are motivated, criminal acts motivated by the hatred of 46 such crimes. Of this 41 works according to ethnicity, but there is no comment on the ethnicity which is probably okay, but neither is the location of the geographical where it happened, whether it's in rural areas or in cities, so here we are, if you have that information, I was interested in it primarily because of Baranja and the environment in which I live. Furthermore, there is an interesting finding which is entirely and logically that the number of traffic accidents, accidents as well as easily and severely injured, but at the same time the number of deaths is increased, and the most dead are in cars and in engines, in motorcycles, it also stands here, which absolutely imposes one conclusion, that parallel to the modernisation of our roads, it is okay that we stand by. I think it's a bit of an investment in the education of all those in traffic because, of course, our cars and those engines are getting faster and faster because they're better roads and there's a reduction in traffic accidents, but if that happens, then it's inevitable that there are dead people, is there? I'd like two more things to say here, first of all, one suggestion, that is, to ask the Minister. It's about the next one. I'm estimating for rural environments, I don't know what it's like in cities, that it's a good move, to say the so-called engagement. I think in these rural areas it's absolutely justified, at least where I live and cooperate well. However, we also need to establish some cooperation with the commissioners because I have to say that his presence often times, if it is possible to make such a redistribution more helpful and meant that he is on the ground during the weekend, as we say in the small hours after 22 hours, perhaps half an hour in an environment, than that he spends the whole mornings on Mondays or Tuesdays in the field watching us retirees drink coffee, etc. Because then obviously there's no problem in those small environments, but only in those late hours and that weekends. And another request to be heard and registered in the record, I would ask that, we have already writtenly initiated that the border crossing in Batina is planned for a serious reconstruction in the coming year, especially to ensure the working conditions of the border police working on the Danube, who now have a seat in Batina on the Green Island which, I must say, is quite poor-looking, in poor condition. I'm afraid our tourists wouldn't paint it and publish it, it wouldn't be good for the local community, at least for the Ministry of the Interior. We don't all have to use these 10 minutes, do we? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17602	Followed by a further debate by distinguished counterpart Boris Šprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17603	Well, I've been thinking about it. So when there's this wide debate, when it's repeating things then, the esteemed Mr. Vice President and Ministers and distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I'm thinking about how I shouldn't repeat things. Well, I won't say it again, so I'll say it next. The method of work is not good. Why? Because this report has actually achieved this fragmentary, partial insight into only one segment of the whole which is called the judiciary in a broader sense, even if the police do not belong in a narrow sense. But in a broader sense, it's because it all starts with the police, so it goes to the State's Attorney's office, the police, the court, and it's supposed to end up in court. Since we don't have that review, and the one who formulated the agenda, I don't know if the president did it himself, I know that's what he does in the Rules of Procedure, but he probably has associates. The point is, let's say, the State's Attorney General's report on the work that the attorney general filed also put somewhere, this was, I don't know, the 56th point, and this was the 49th point. So instead of at least connecting it and putting it under actually one whole of at least those two parts, of course it doesn't seem. Why am I saying that? One argument in favor of that. It's interesting that, now I'm sorry there's no Vice President of Mr. Jarnjak's Parliament here who not once said you know, but the police, when there were some arguments going that way to say that there was a spectacular action called Index, the police didn't decide. The police were part of the team, it was one thesis. And the second one was the police actually did what the State's Attorney's office said. So in that part alone, we're talking about these two organs. So, for example, Prime Minister Sanader, somewhere in the summer when other actions were at stake, or were they preparing, or were the issues of journalists, well, what's going on, you want to do something to get rid of that corruption? He said about this way listen, it's a matter of justice. Yeah, right. But now I'm going to say one thing that I hope will be something new, when it says the institutions of the rule of law need to do their job, then I guess someone needs to make sure that the institutions of the rule of law are doing their job, not just the institutions themselves, but the ones who speak as an institution and who is at the top, let's say the executive authorities. As far as the Minister's report is concerned, I would like to point out and point out that, under the Police Act, a report or a report to this House is given by a minister. He doesn't give away the Ministry of the Interior. This highlights the position of the minister, but also his responsibility. The strategic task of the police is to prevent and suppress... The task behind this is to find the perpetrators of crimes when the crime has already been committed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think today's debate here in this assembly went to the aposteliors, not the apriors. Both those ideas and those that were proposed by my fellow SDP representatives and representatives from some other clubs were in favour of contributing, following an analysis of this report, to the conclusion of this report as a legislative body, to improve the state of security in this country. The fact that the state of security is actually as favourable as it says in the report that you, Mr. Minister, do not go in that direction, we are not going to meet that Parliament, therefore as a legislative body, contributes and that such a background and atmosphere is created in order to make things better. Let's say one example. Corruption is often mentioned as the most massive phenomenon in which not only many authorities have to do their jobs in a way that they do it legally and do not engage in corruption. Nowhere, for example. Not to mention, in a preemptive sense, that the police and their services and their how to say, associates they have at both the academy and outside the academy, etc. They're working on youth education. So let's just say that they could still at the university, so students and other social groups about what corruption is, about consciousness and corruption, and how it's being contained, and for that, it's mainly about repression. What I also want to warn you is that in this report it seems to me to be on the page. 3 The conditions are set out so that the basic tasks and objectives of the police can be implemented, which are: professionalisation, modernisation, police rationalisation, democratisation, transformation, integration. This is not further discussed in the report, and these are really the key concepts that should be contained in this report, and at least in the end as one synthesis of what to do, but through these points that I have now mentioned. Unfortunately, the report is contradictory among other things. So on page 4, I quote, "The danger of crime can hardly be overemphasized." That's what we talked about all the time. But then the conclusion on page 6, I quote, "The state of crime in 2007 was favourable." And there is no relative relationship. And there it is again, I am going back to what I said two or three minutes ago, there is this relationship between the executive authority and the legislative one that should correspond in an effort to come up with one sublimation after a debate on this report, one possible solution that leads to repairing things. One of the arguments for what I'm saying, for this thesis is, let's say, a chapter that talks about traffic safety. Then the same thing is relativized there, so it's said that the number of traffic accidents is smaller in total, which is true. That the number of serious and easy traffic injuries is smaller which is also true, but we can't ignore that the number of deaths is higher and that this is a tendency and that you say it yourself in the report that's the most important goal to achieve, and then also let's not relativize the matter in a way that we say that's less important than that, it's important both, but this is the most important thing. So, I accept those parts of that head on traffic safety, there's a little bit of a fix on the thing that you've recollected, but it needs to be sharpened right around those dead. Why? Because that's the most important goal, you wrote it yourself. Here and finally, I propose to the President and the Presidency of the Parliament that in the future at least when police reports, police work, the work of the state's attorneys, I suggest we discuss the state of our judiciary, because we all talk about it as if the legislative body has no right to discuss it. He certainly has the right to discuss this and then to discuss it in one whole and that we can then come to one too many conclusions on how to improve between the other and the state of security in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17604	Thank you very much. We've exhausted applications for individual debates. For the final word on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17605	Honored Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think at first I have to say that one of the things that made this report actually unacceptable for us was that sentence, which is that it shows that today in the Republic of Croatia nothing dramatic is happening on the public security plan, that there is nothing that they have not experienced for more or less than the past 10 years. That was why we tried in some way to explain and invite the minister that the perception of the public and the feeling of being threatened by the citizens is not only dependent on statistics and in that part if the understanding is shown I think it would be very important, because this assessment actually sends a message in which we should be used to the violence in which we are in a situation to compare ourselves with some environments and to say so when it's so terrible why we don't have to be and that it should be a normal thing. I just know one icon, and it's that Clark Noble was at my place, head of Interpol in 2003, and then he warned me of one thing and he said, "It's a good country where people still turn when they drive the car with a siren." Unfortunately, I'm no longer sure if we're going to be in that situation to react to or get used to it, and for that reason, I think it's a common interest to change these things. I owe one answer because I think that the question has been raised many times, so I will still take advantage of this opportunity in the final word, that of the 3985 police officers who were made available in 8 months 2001, 1541 were deployed to vacancy in the MUP. Of the 2444 police officers 233 stopped their retirement service, 133 were transferred to other services, meaning customs, etc. and in 1893, by the end of the cancellation period, they were paid the severance payment, which in 10 years was about 40 thousand kuna and 154 officials were returned to the MUP through the work of the commission. What is important in 2000 was 2065 people with primary school in the MUP, 2003. 928. I do not think it should be added to the reasons why and how this happened, which unfortunately people had to leave the service, by noting that during the period from 96 to 2000, 7 thousand people were admitted to the Ministry of State against the ban of Government, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the ban on admission to the state service. And why it was necessary to do this, means for which reason, because today Croatia actually has the same problem. He wants to get close to European standards, he wants to get to being the circus of one police officer on 350 people, and we are aware of the situation that this is not actually possible and that our figures are now slightly more than 200 people, or one officer on 200 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia is far from the European standard. Therefore, I will only read that the Croatian government has the task of ensuring a stable system of police financing, which is where the government fulfils the economic power of society. The available budgets of the ministry may be sufficient to achieve strategic objectives only if they are precisely planned and consistently implemented. Since three-quarters of these funds are spent on remuneration to employees, improving the social status of police civil servants, it is possible only by assembling the number of jobs in the ministry to achieve these objectives. For this reason, since the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia has 10 to 15% higher numbers in its system than the European average, and we are obliged to hormoneise these figures according to European standards, to reduce the number of jobs in the ministry, and to increase the professional capacity of employees can achieve two goals, to maintain a favourable state of security in the company of employees to improve social status. It is an answer to why this happened, with the fact that I must note that these sentences are not sentences of the coalition government, but these are strategic terms in 2004 to 2008 signed by unfortunately the late Minister Mlinaric. The police reform is needed for our sake, not for the sake of the European Union, and I will now use this last piece of the story to try to make some of the smart things possible in order to improve, and that means here is a very short amount of money for simulated legal persons, simulated business activities, enhance the work with ITs, the Agency for Research of Converted Crime, the amendment of the Internal Design Regulation on the principle of the mobility of police officers, and given that I am running out of time, I hope that I will be able to tell Mr. Minister these things, because I am convinced that this can all be helpful. And my last line is, I say what's most important, please, that the government has to feel any pulse to the public, create an anti-crime atmosphere, and we're willing to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17606	Thank you very much, my dear colleague, the Honorable colleague, Mr. Ostojić. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Before I close this point, Mr. Roncevic came forward. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17607	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a few final opinions following the debate on the police work report. I have heard several times Mr. Ostovic, who advocated that the election of chief police director should be transparent, that he should not be the result of the election of the political majority, i.e. the government, of the ruling coalition. We shared that opinion, and we held for the first time in Croatia a public tender for the selection of the Chief Director of Police. Today, Mr. Ostojic is talking about the fact that the chief director of the police must have the status of secretary of state, in order to have the status of secretary of state to go into the government's order of officials, so it's a little contradictory to me, so I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this little uncoordinated thinking or at least the wrong idea of what you said. I'll allow that, too. In 2007, 207 crimes were committed on average in Croatia and there are no police matters and there would be inadmissible classification of large and small. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all persons who have been damaged by some criminal act, who are victims of some crime, have the right to react to the State, to react to the police and to teach other bodies involved in this chain, from detection to investigation, to surrender to the State's Attorney's Office, to press charges or to an indictment and later debate before the criminal and criminal courts. Everyone has the right to the same degree of responsibility, the same degree of engagement. A man who was a victim or injured by some crime has the right to do so and we cannot build any more important, irrelevant, more sound or less sound events, some kind of crime. I repeat, I am aware that under various influences some are given greater media attention, some are given smaller. I'm sorry that Mrs. Honorable Parliamentarian Jelash is not here, the police have never been better equipped than today. That's what the Chief Director of Police said. Is that enough? It's not. But allow me, we found ourselves as this government in the previous term a budget deficit of 6.3%. We want him to be zero, and for that to happen, it takes both time and money, and one part of that burden will also be borne by the Ministry of the Interior. I'm fully aware of that. I don't know if she reported to the police an unauthorized and ugly youth behavior in the tram, it would be a gesture of civic courage and responsibility, because not every tram in this country can be driven by one police officer and if it will leave only police officers to report criminal acts or offences, and that will not make citizens part of their civic obligation, if there is a need behind every traffic participant to go to a traffic cop or police officer, then there will be no better shifts. Security is one broader segment. He's not just an activity of police work. Security is also the right of a student who knows how to get a well-deserved grade. It is his right not to force him to a mediator who will allow him to pass and his knowledge to be adequately evaluated. It's the term, and it's all the taste of Operation Index, so that whoever showed the knowledge won't be returned to the exam to get him to pay. And that's what investigations and investigative activities are about. I hope and I'm confident with enough evidence will be allowed by the State's Attorney's office to accuse those who have tarnished the reputation of the university. The Croatian government is clear about this, not all university professors are you, the suspicion of innocence is valid, but should have reacted. It is the right of every citizen to go to a doctor and not have to pay him an extra fee for it. So we heard some words and cries for fate and the reputation of a doctor who left Croatia. And so is the right and one who has sinned and one who has the need to contact a lawyer to make every public service concrete and correct and professional, and not to... his clients, so that's what happened. And at the end of this debate, I'm sorry that the distinguished parliamentary representative Jerkovic didn't come sooner, so it might be shorter, she asked what should happen if you, Mr. Minister, resigned. And I'm asking you, Mrs. MPs, and what happened in Croatia at the ministry where I'm headed that I should resign. If in your words you recognized and a little political credibility not to you personally, but to the political party you belong to, were you not sitting in these benches at the time, the same question should have been asked to the honourable parliamentary representative Lucino, here present to Mr. Ostojić, who was then the chief police director when Prk, Shimleša, Kuljish and others were beaten. That's not where it came in. That's not where it came in. And the same time the citizens were upset. The families, the neighbors had the right to safety as we did today, which is why we put it in this report, we didn't say we were happy. The security situation in the past 10 years nothing has happened dramatically today which is not, it happens in some trends but we have clearly said, nothing can be so good that in this Croatia can't be better. In this context will be our further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17608	Thank you very much. We have three applications to correct the allegations. First of all, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17609	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I've never advocated the chief police director being, so the correction of the wrong assumption was to make him a secretary of state. My pledge was next, which is to be chosen in the same way as the Director of the Security Intelligence Agency, thus giving him a mandate, thus giving him the right to responsibility. I hope you understand this clarification now. Secondly, in 2003, at the time of the events, I was not a member of the SDP, so I would ask you not to associate these same people with me today from that time on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17610	Thank you very much. Furthermore, the correction of the alleged esteemed colleague Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Minister said at one point that you can't put a policeman on every tram to make the safety of the people who carry the tram bigger. Look but when Mr. Minister said that, let's say at night all of you who have children and live in Zagreb or maybe in Osijek don't know if the night lines exist in Osijek, must be terrified when your child, aged 15 or 17, is going to disco and coming home. All right, she's 19. And it's not true, but it doesn't matter now, it goes to parties with friends, it doesn't matter, it travels from Dubrava to Jarun, it's a good thing I suggest that the minister and the director of the police and her associates think that in those four lines that exist in Zagreb, for now I know that four lines are nightly, times two trams. Well, I'd put one cop on every tram, so it would systematically affect the safety of children who are being transported and other people getting bigger. But not just on the tram, but on some buses. Try that, my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17612	Thank you very much. This would fall under the table of suggestions, but we don't have any additional suggestions, do we? Dear colleague Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17613	Mr. Ministers how you always like to call on the former government and what the former coalition government of the late Račna did and did not act, it is not true that the cases you mentioned by Prka and others were not potentiated at the time, but among other things, you were an opposition at the time, so if you and your party missed it then, I guess, or I'm sure it's because at that time you cared about the safety of Croatians by picking chestnuts, peeling chains and organising gatherings on the waterfront. It was then at that time your contribution to the security of the country. Yes, yes, very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17614	Thank you very much. Here's the second item of the agenda. I announce tomorrow the 9.30 extension on the agenda will be the Final Proposal for the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Trade Act. All hail together. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-02-0.u17615	Sixth, the Home Secretary's report on police affairs. The debate is closed. I give the vote the conclusion: Consent to the conclusion of the parent parliamentary working body. A report by the Minister of the Interior on police affairs is hereby accepted. Please, who's in? ... There are no amendments. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Uh, this report was accepted by 78 votes in, 29 against and 2 abstentions. Here we have one proposal from the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party. And after the consultation, the conclusion would be, "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit to the Croatian Assembly special information within 6 months," and then the text below remains as it was in the proposal. So "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit within 6 months to the Croatian Parliament" and so on. If that's clear, and if you've agreed to that, then I suggest that this text be voted on in favour of these conclusions. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The conclusions were adopted unanimously with 110 votes in favour. ... - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 170 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Home is not saved.]] You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
