ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u15062	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am opening today's session to be addressed by the President of the Slovak Republic His Excellency Mr Ivan Gasparovich, who is on an official visit to Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. It is my special honor and pleasure to particularly welcome Mr. Ivan Gasparovich, President of the Slovak Republic, in your personal and personal name. , the delegation of the Slovak Republic, the diplomatic assembly headed by the appointed choir of apostolic nuncio in the Republic of Croatia, the superior monsignor Mario Robert Kasari. [[Applause]] I am honored to ask the Honorable Mr. President of Slovakia Ivan Gašparovic to address representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and members of the Diplomatic Assembly. [[Applause]] Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u15063	The speaker speaks in a foreign language, no translation. Give it up!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u15064	I thank the President of the Slovak Republic, Mr Ivan Gašparović for his address, as well as for the friendly messages and support he gives us in our efforts to join the European Union. Thank you very much again, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the session and debate on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 121; Proposer of the Law is representative of Dragutin Lesar. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The rapporteur, the proposing representative, Mr Dragutin Lesar, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19782	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has long-term employment interventions excluded the monopoly, the previous monopoly of the Employment Service and placed it on the market. Private companies, agencies, and even entrepreneurs who register for doing this job and age consent of the competent ministry can intervene in employment, for all occupations, all professions and all activities in the Republic of Croatia. This was also in the context of harmonising with Europe's legislation, efforts and aspirations to put that part of the work that enables the unemployed to get to work faster and easier, but also put private initiatives in the area on the market. I told you about all the professions, professions and activities except for the intervention in temporary and occasional employment, the employment of students. The law on which we should open the debate today has kept the monopoly of student centres or student services that only they have the right to intervene in this temporary and occasional recruitment of students. Such a solution has its advantages but also its disadvantages. At the time of the adoption of the laws, the Proposer, the Government and Parliament, by adopting the law, went from being that student centres should therefore invest through their profits or earnings in improving the student standard so that food in the cafeterias or accommodations in the homes should be cheaper. This was obviously the intention of the applicant when he used a provision or definition that regular students have the right to hire legal persons whose activity ensures the integrity and necessary standard of the higher education system, (student centres), in accordance with the rules adopted by the minister. So this, behind this rather bureaucratic sentence, is actually hiding a monopoly of student centres in intervening in temporary employment and... The exclusive right of student centres to organise temporary and occasional employment is therefore linked to their obligation to invest their money, their profits in improving student standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the good side that should result in a higher student standard. But we come to, in my opinion, four points or four things that are not good in this monopoly. The commission that the student centres take to mediate or toddler intervention in this employment averages 12%. It is determined by a narrow circle of student centre management and is not susceptible but in no way influenced by market conditions of business. Secondly, the price of individual student work is determined by student centre prices and is not dependent on work either on student qualifications or on current value in the labour market. Thirdly, the students of the good part, I would say most of them find work themselves and the role of the Student Centre is and because of the law of a protected monopoly it is possible for them, it is only the mediator who gives them the contract and takes the commission and nothing more. And fourthly, income control is not trying to determine at any time whether the jobs that students are engaged in are really done or whether it's classic money laundering. It is known that services or "services" of student centres often serve to create black funds in companies, companies, both private and state-owned. That this is how cash is made that is later used in illegal activities. By talking to students in Zagreb, they themselves have identified several objections to the existing system. They say that the jobs offered by the student centre are few, that they themselves are often forced to look for a job or work on their own and when they do it or when they prepare to do it simply appear at the student centre just for the sake of contract and commissioning. The jobs offered to students are not time-adjusted, which means that at a time when they have the most time the job offer is the smallest. There is often a failure to pay off work or a long period of waiting until payment. Namely, it is not rare for a job client not to pay the profits and student centres for lack of crafts are not paying the students their work done so that they later ask the orderer to pay the students only when the client pays them the job. It is often the case that not students are hired through a student service, which creates unfair additional competition for them. Extraordinary non-employees have no right to mediate student funds. But that's why I repeat, there are often abuses of the Institute of Student Services and their services are used by those who have nothing to do with the university. The offers are only available through the advertisement board in student services. There's no advertising on the Internet. Adverts are slowly approved so that often on these advertising boards are offers aged several months and jobs have been done long ago. And the student service does nothing to protect the right of students in relation to the employer in the event of non-payment or payment of a lower price than agreed. The essence of my proposal is not to prohibit student centres from intervening in employment but only to gain competition. Neighbouring Slovenia is the last country close to us and a member of the European Union that has also made a similar move, executed or abolished the monopoly that has been achieved not only in Slovenia but also in the countries that have done so before. First, the current or current commission that moved there between 10% and 12% fell to 3% to 4%. Exactly because of that competition. Secondly, private intermediaries in order to create better conditions pay students a part of the work done from their funds and later charge from those who ordered these jobs. Thus, the time of the collection of the work that the students had done is extremely shortened. Third, it comes to the price of work, the hours of work of students from current 15 to 20 kuna rise and due to the reduction of commission. But also because private intermediaries in negotiations with the contracting authorities are trying to achieve an appropriate price. And fourthly, I think it's just as important. Private intermediaries are not passive observers, they are not waiting for students to find a job themselves, but are active in looking for jobs suitable for students and with their offer they have made on the market to offer students, not only through advertising boards such as now, but also through the Internet and in all other available ways, because their goal is to have as many interventions with as much income and bigger jobs as possible. It is precisely this active position of entrepreneurship on that market that is useful on the one hand and on the economy, for those who use these services. But for both students and for the reduction of payment and achievement of a higher price. We all witnessed the continuing problems of the Student Centre in Zagreb for a few years back, including some others. The dissatisfaction of day - to - day students has not been articulated and shown in some other organised way, because those who work are dependent on this same Student Centre and do not want to be normally resented, for tomorrow they will have problems. And what I'm going to end this part with. If the state wanted to create a system for students to improve their standards by their own work, because if the Student Centre achieves a profit that is invested in the student standard it turns out that actually students invest in their work. Then the question arises whether it is socially acceptable, is it fair that only those students who work and create the Centre's profits invest part of their work, their profits in increasing student standards, and those who do not work because of their material status, do not use student centre services to use the same benefits as the part of students who earned the student centre's profits. Isn't that where we made two types, two student statuses of those who study, and usually those who work most often and regularly finish their studies with a creative value finance the standard and those who don't work. If the goal is to facilitate and co-finance students' personal standards, but also student standards as a whole, then success, profit and profit generated by those students who work must only be theirs through an increased labour price, through increased earnings create their standard, and the general standard in student homes, the table is the state's thing to cover. If experience not only of neighbouring Slovenia, but practically of all members of the European Union shows that this is the only way that they have solved the problem of corruption in those who have a monopoly, an increase in labour prices, a reduction in the charging and greater interest of the economy, but also students that this form of work is used I see no reason why they would not accept this more than once I repeat that a few years ago we had been intervening on employment for all professions, all occupations were placed on the market. I don't see any reason not to do that with this temporary and occasional student employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19783	Thank you. Rapporteurs of the Committee on Legislatives, Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On 29 October of this year, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, P.Z. 121. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The promoter didn't attend the session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have been decided that the issue will be discussed in the absence of the proposer. The Committee took into account the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 4 September, the Class and the Report of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament of 23 September, the Class and so on. The brief debate took into account the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Legislatives, and the nomotechnical weakness of the proposal was also highlighted. In fact, both the Government's opinion and the Committee's opinion are negative, and the nomotechnical weakness of the proposal would consist in proposing, under the proposed Article 1 of the Law of the Department of Science, Education and Sports, the adoption of a sublaw for the implementation of that law to the Minister responsible for Labour Affairs. Following the discussion, the Committee reached the next conclusion by a majority of votes of 5 for and 3 abstentions. The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19785	Thank you. Representative of the Government who delivered an opinion... To further explain the Government's opinion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19786	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. Indeed, it is a small change in the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education where only one article is changing, and the purpose of these changes is the competitiveness and demonopolization of the role of student centres in the employment of occasional, temporary student and representative Lesar has presented certain experiences of Germany and Slovenia here, so that he has in some way introduced certain dimensions of this problem that exists. But given that we have discussed and seen what intensity is at the Croatian Democratic Community club, and when you add that there is also a negative view of the government and the board, then we have seen that Agent Lesar did not fully consider this issue that relates to the temporary occasional employment of students and it is evident that one of the following experiences that the Republic of Croatia needs to be changed, but in much more complex content. It should also be pointed out for this debate that occasional employment in the Republic of Croatia and in general employment is regulated by the Employment and Rights Intervention Act, which will be in practice since 1 January 2009, by regulating this one wider area, and the student problem by law, and so the Government and the Government will be able to resolve the Law on Universitys and the Law on Scientific Activity, Higher Education and Perspectives, as well as agencies dealing with this area, and only then will these issues be resolved. I will make another argument that we may not all be aware of, and it is about a Bologna process that introduces a whole other way of studying and occupation of students, leading through the study, so that it narrows down this space so that on the one hand it remains the role of studying and students according to this process and the student standard which consists not only of these commissions and potential opportunities, but consists of raising and accommodation opportunities for food and everything else, which must be taken into account with the overall development of higher education science in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club, and by respecting both the government's opinion and the opinion of the parent Committee on Education, Science and Culture as previously stated by President Selem, we cannot accept and will not support the amendment of the law as proposed by MP Lesar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19787	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in a small segment regarding and which it intends to improve, ultimately of course, to improve the standard of students, regular students who temporarily, or occasionally work to raise their own student standard. I think Mr. Lesar's intention is good, and it seems to me that the government and the government's representatives have seen it, here's whether to call it a lack or a connection to the provisions of the law to say that the government is ultimately intending to make some changes, even in this matter. However, as we hear many times from the government's representatives, and we heard it yesterday when someone suggests, of course, when someone suggests from the opposition, and a small part that goes in the positive direction of amending and supplementing various laws, and yesterday we had one such, then the government is responsible for preparing full changes, changes and additions, or for preparing a whole law, or as it is today, here, to "change the existing system complex." Now, we expect this more complex and complex and complete change, and we won't respect something that really by nature doesn't have a single argument, not a single fact, because it's quite certain that the current government, and the opposition also has a desire to allow students, regular students, so if you want an extraordinary better standard, and this law is going in this very little segment because it's seen and really by the student centres that, by my experience, here in this part when it comes to the occasional and temporary employment of students, these student centres work extremely little. Because the fact is that students, not only personally, but according to various other legal persons, individuals find themselves a job in a large number. And what does the student center do? The student centre is only there because the law stipulates that he has a monopoly, that he has exclusive right and that through that student centre there are jobs, that the student centre acts as a mediator. I don't really see any reason. I think that as far as student centres are concerned, it's not 12% rounded up, but they're making their own decision on how much commission it's going to be, but I don't think there's even any big money that the student centres themselves make, and that these same money could be focused on improving the overall improvement of student standards. So why not allow other legal and physical persons to deal with this intermediation, to go into the market and actually activate themselves, significantly activate in finding temporary jobs where students could work and if they did, if they allowed such an amendment and the addition of the law, they would certainly, because of the competition of people in these companies, legal and physical persons, make a real effort to make the price of work for students bigger first, secondly to significantly more open opportunities for temporary and occasional students and finally, what Mr. Lesar pointed out, and here is current these days, corruption, money laundering. We've had a recovery of the student centers. You know best here in Zagreb, but also in Osijek. Rehabilitation of the student centre, this can be confirmed by the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the rehabilitation of the students' centre in Osijek has been endless. Is that how it was in that whole few years, could the student centre of intermediation have invested, and in the recovery it was, investing in increasing student standards? The state invested here, that's a fact. But from this intermediation, only from that segment that the student centre will issue a contract and take some commission, I think it uses for the student standard absolutely no or very small. Therefore, in this part of the proposal, I support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity, by accepting that there may be a lack of a regulation that brings the Competent Ministry of Labour, but I do not think that this is an obstacle if there is an obstacle on the legal side, so we will make it very easy to make an amendment and correct this gap and actually bring amendments and amendments to the law for the benefit of students, in favour of the real improvement of standards in that part that they achieve with temporary and occasional employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19789	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19790	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. This amendment to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education with the proposed solutions is acceptable, because we are all aware of the manipulations that occur in student centres. The fact is that student centres have a monopoly on finding a job for students. The fact is also that there are many gray zones within the student dormitory and that there is a need to introduce order to this rather large and important labour market. Students who are forced to study regularly, who are increasingly expensive and less available to earn their own work for study, should be able to get to work more easily and make it easier to get money for a particular job. Any introduction of order should be welcomed and supported. This proposal introduces parliamentary representatives to the situation in Germany or some other countries and shows that these countries have developed legal acts to tax such activity as for example. a minimum job in which anyone who earns up to 400 euros does not pay taxes or contributions, and that is the same for students. The amendment and addition of the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in Article 1 requires the Minister of Labour and Minister of Science and Higher Education to adopt regulations, i.e. sublegal acts, which will lay down specific conditions for the implementation of that activity. I hope that these rules will be written by the end of the current year in order to improve and smooth the application of this law. Because otherwise, if that deadline is extended from 3 to 33 months and the minister does not understand the seriousness of these sublaws, space can be opened, not for one tax hole, a black tax hole, but for them a hundred and we will not get rid of monopoly in student centres. Of course, this is the kind of business in student centres that there are now good sides. However, there are many more negative aspects than the commission, so that students themselves find jobs in most cases, as proposed by Lesar intro and explained, and the student centre or centres are only intermediaries and take commissions, and the income belonging to students is paid only after the student centre collects funds from users. But the question is whether a student will be able to make his own profit at all, because if a student centre in which case doesn't pay the funds from the user, then the student doesn't get his income for which he worked fairly. I therefore think that this change is good, it should be supported and I hope it will be accepted and applied from 1 January 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19791	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19792	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Care about the material position of our students is an undisputed topic that deserves our attention and the attention of the Croatian Parliament. Care about the quality of their lives, their social security, their health insurance, are all important topics covered by every responsible society and every responsible state, and so does the Republic of Croatia through its competent institutions, through its respective ministries. And in any case, I am sure that through the competent Ministry of Science, Education and Sports all these issues that are important for the quality of life of our students, their standard of living deserve the attention and efforts of this ministry and the appropriate measures and appropriate proposals put forward in a systematic, well-organised and well-designed way we will soon hear about it in the Croatian Assembly and really do not need to worry about it. What I said would deserve further attention when we talk about the life of students and the quality of their studies is something that is also an important topic, doing students can be forced to work and how much they can really engage in considering everything that is new very sharp requirements for studying that is being imposed through the Bologna Process. The pace of work, the pace of learning does not allow any delay, because any delay can, unfortunately, condition and cause an extension of study, which in every society means additional costs, and when we look at this problem as a whole, then we have to observe it and given the efficiency of society as a whole in this segment, which is the quality of study, it is the speed of study and we have to do everything possible to pay proper attention to this main business. In the first place, therefore, the quality of study, the speed of study, and I am sure you will agree that there is really no time for some additional activities of this character at many universities in the Bologna process. We need to understand that sometimes people for various reasons are forced to work additionally, but the quality of study and quality of teaching is a fundamental goal especially in the context of recent discussions when we talked about the credibility of individual universities and individual professors, there is no alternative. In some colleges that are really demanding, such as medicine, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, physics, mathematics and others, there is not much room for additional activities. The right path that can really be promising is to hire students, but through various college programs, projects, projects of the Ministry of Science, all that ensures that students and even when forced to work extra, remain in the profession, strengthen their competence. And I think that's the one that's promising and represents a common interest and represents an optimal relationship and the best compromise between what's called working, but at the same time quality and effective study. Therefore, in the proposals we will soon hear in the Croatian Parliament on this trail that will balance these interests well, we can expect quality, good and best solutions that ensure optimal compromise of these sometimes opposed requirements, and finally, very clearly, I would say the following. The competent ministry, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports through their proposals will offer complete, systematic and long-term solutions to solutions that really have ad hoc character and that do not see these problems as a whole. Here, I would therefore conclude my debate, with a clear view of taking care of these solutions and these problems leading to a quality competent ministry and these proposals that represent a long-term perspective we will have opportunities to see in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19793	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19794	Here, I'll correct the incorrect quote. counterpart Ćosic said he should not be particularly concerned because the ministry will solve the problem of students working through student centres. That's not true. If you don't think there's any need to worry about what's waiting. Here's the proposal before you, accept it, and we won't worry about us, nor the students, and they won't have any more problems working through the student centers. What's to wait for if you have a proposal here that solves the problem of students? And I'm really like all the students worried if there's a proposal, and it's delayed to get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19795	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19796	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a few sentences. Today, here is to be encouraged by the proposal of a colleague of Lesar who very justifiably warns us about one problem, I think it is a little bit, and it is shown that it is necessary, and we are expanding the debate actually on the whole story about students and the conditions of study. And what I have to admit, I'm kind of confused. It seems to me that of all the debaters we've heard there are certain problems in the student population, that there's a certain problem and code, here's the specific, temporary and occasional recruitment of students. I must personally point out that colleague Lesar is very well identifying the problems that are in it. So we hear something is a problem. In his opinion, the government also recognizes a particular problem and says that, as usual, it will solve these new laws very quickly. I have to admit, I'm a little confused by the government's arguments. Last April 25th, the Parliament adopted amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education. Then, a year and a half ago, we were told that everything about the students was resolved and that we had fully accepted the new role of students in the Bologna process, etc. And then they said we still lack one law. It's the Law on Student Organization that we passed on June 27th last year. So, according to what we've been hearing from the government for the last year, we've passed all the regulations. Now that we have on the other hand an initiative that justifiably warns of a particular problem we have from the Government, which let me quote and ask Mr. Secretary of State that a little bit of an explanation about the government's opinion that says: "Improving student standards under the higher education system is one of the fundamental needs that occurred during the application of the law..." etc. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, to tell us what problems you've seen. Because until yesterday, you've told us there's no problem. And what are these needs, and how is the law to be resolved? So that's something I'm interested in because there's obviously a problem. The government has little claim that it has settled everything, so when it does not know how to respond to the MPs' proposals, it says it will settle its laws. So I'm really asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, to give an explanation to the government's opinion, or to tell us what problems you've seen in implementing the student standard, or what measures do you intend to settle with the new law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19797	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank God or fortunately, I did not have the opportunity or use in my study the services of the student service or the student centre at the time, but I know that even then, as today, probably today or very likely today, there are problems that are already slowly highlighted here in this debate. There was then, however, a Fund for the Scholarship of Students and Students who told students just those colleges, as Mr. Cosic said medicine and some others, enabled if they are regular that they do not have to use student service services. This debate shows that it is actually a student centre or student centres in the Republic of Croatia, and there are also universities, five I would say sea and one of these in our metropolis and one in Osijek. When I say sea, I mean Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik. So, these student centres together with the Osijek and this in our capital, absolutely certain that their work, and in connection with the occasional and temporary recruitment of students, there is dissatisfaction with students. If you ask those who occasionally or temporarily work, then you will certainly be highlighted by two features of the occasional or temporary employment. And both of these characteristics are, in fact, the possibility of a choice of corruption, which is nepotism and clientism. So, you know who gets a job, when they get it, and how it gets paid. They don't know that. Yesterday we listened here when there was talk of an extra blindness, another futuristic statement. Today again, the futuristic statements will, the government will pass, the government will determine, the government will determine, but the gentlemen of the debate, Mrs Lugaric, I see that the legislation has already been passed, for example. This one from June 27th last year on November's organization, but that's a plus-squamp, past the time. So that's it, and none of it. So again, we need to use it when we try not to defuse a bill like this that I think is good and that could improve the standard of November, again we will use words, or future times, by mentioning the Bologna Process, the editing of universities that will be arranged, and then the new Labour Act that will re-regulated the occasional and temporary work, etc. If we were all unique in the assessment and in the need for intervention here are these current events, developments and these current murders, etc., I don't think we should be partyally separated if we have a good bill on the bench and we can actually support it no matter who he came from. That is why, with the correction of those nomotechnical ones that are not a problem of correcting the nomotechnical, not to say mistakes, but to make nomotechnical corrections, I think this law of Mr. Dragutin Lesar is acceptable and I will personally be in favour of adopting this bill of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19799	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've got to correct Mr. Agent's allegations that it's just futuristic statements. The fact is that it is clear that the Employment Intermediation Act has already adopted this High House, which is agreed by the Croatian Government and has been applied since 1 January. And these futurisms can't apply, because the Bologna process is already going on. Life in the academic community lasts. So this problem is much more complex and I repeat here, Mr. Lesar has set certain examples that will certainly be a good conclusion, but it needs to be fully solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19801	Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19802	Mr Grubisic said that among other things, the biggest problem in employment is nepotism and conflict of interest and such in employment. That would be good if that were the case. These are usually not employment problems at the student center. The biggest problems with hiring through student centres, which is actually legalized money laundering, a hope that absolutely no one has control over. A few years ago, the media was full of examples of a student who earned several million kunas a year, then the tax and other regulations changed that now allow the student seems to me a little less than 4 thousand kuna a month to earn. I ask you to find me a student who can study the Bologna Process and earn four thousand kuna a month? That means it actually has to be at work every day for eight hours. And then why are student contracts used? That someone literally gets the money out of their company. Hire a contract with a student through a student contract to pay for his work, which he neither saw nor heard, by the way, students collect a 5% commission on these contracts, well they earn among other things. And that's the biggest problem. That's not all together, as counterpart Šetic said too much in some way related to the Bologna Process. The role of students in the Bologna process and the student representative himself is an entirely unique story. The achievement of student standards as a primary obligation in some way of state and public institutes where these students are studying cannot be broken by looking at closed eyes through money laundering, legalized money laundering. And it's not that the problem can be solved by such a change, this change of colleagues of Lesar may help in some cities, but it does not solve the problem, and the problem is money laundering. Among other things, this and many other problems were identified by the State Audit when she was reviewing the business of student centres. So, if we don't fool ourselves that our problem is smaller than it is, the point is to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19803	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19804	Those fellow students, I can tell them who work occasionally and temporarily, clearly that the problem is precisely those two facts that I told nepotism and clientalism, and this third fact of money laundering and all together as a choice of corruption in student centres is one three-way negative phenomenon that occurs in all student centres. So what's hurting the student, so what's touching him, that's exactly it. If he's already working and has to make some income to study she's just this so he can't get to work, that someone else comes before him, that someone else has the privilege of doing it. There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19805	Final review. Proposer Mr Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19806	I would suggest that we put temporary and occasional student employment on the market and allow private competition that has resulted in a higher price of work, hours or jobs for students, an active position for those who intervene to seek employment and offer students, regular payments and a smaller commission. The government says this area will change, but more complex. Then obviously the problems were far more complex than the ones I saw in the bill's reasoning, but it was perhaps a little more than a year ago when there were no problems within that student standard, and all that was claimed to be was said to be pure politics. Nomotechnical excuses have also been used. I am very sorry, dear colleague Selem, that you were not told as chairman of the committee that I asked that the debate and decision-making on your committee be conducted without the presence of the promoter because I could not attend. I'm sorry it wasn't passed on to you, but here's the thing, even in the future, you know when I'm not here to answer and I said please reject my proposal without me sitting in the hall because I knew you'd say no. But if it is not technically your committee, then I would suggest amendments, so I expected you to have the amendment that the order of adoption of the regulation should not be in the power of the Minister of Labour, but the Minister of Science, with the consent of the Minister of Labour, because the intervention in employment in our legislation is a portfolio of economy and work. It doesn't matter. I, for example, can accept the amendment immediately or I could accept that it came or offer myself to remove that nomotechnical remark. The entry into force of the 1.1 next year is exactly what I am predicting, or I suggest that this enter into force on the next year, so that all of the intervention in employment is regulated in the same way. I haven't considered the problem until the end. I'm not a science minister that I can end up looking at all the problems because I don't have fifteen advisors, five state secretary and 85 assistants but I've tried to open the problem and point out a certain problem and give one of the possible solutions. What is particularly important is what fell into my ear and after the discussion of fellow Cosic when this problem brought about the Bologna process. If I understood this well the solution with which the Government will come before the Parliament will be that there will be no more temporary and occasional employment of students, especially not through student service because it cannot be studied and worked and if it is done it will be done, quote, within the framework of the university, so only those jobs for which it is being studied will be studied. If that is not the case, if I have therefore misunderstood, then it would be good to say that students are expecting a message if it is true that it will come with such a solution, whether students will be asked before such a proposal comes before the Parliament. And the fact that counterpart Lugaric principled that there was too much money laundering and problems in the sector proves the very fact that the finance minister had to intervene several times with sublegal regulations to prevent money laundering and the creation of black funds through contracts for students who sometimes did not even know they had contracts and that they had worked and received money. That's proof he's got a lot of problems. Data on how much money is turned annually through a student service is almost impossible to obtain but in a conversation with a few of them who know what they're talking about, they told me that about a billion kuna would be around a billion dollars a year, about a billion traffic. If the average fee is 10%, then 100 million kuna is on commission only. If we're going to go into corruption, dirty business and a place where we know it exists and we want to do something, then I thought this was an ideal opportunity. Maybe this and my proposal wouldn't solve that part to the end, but I remind you when it comes to corruption that we've always claimed that competition is one of the strongest weapons that such things can prevent. We are therefore waiting for a more complex solution from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What we offer in the Parliament is incomplete, uncomplicated, I haven't considered the whole of it, and that's why even the nomotechnics can't accept it. I would like to be sure or believe that after the government's incursion into the law and in the light of the law, it will surely say that the government has seen certain problems, that would be the most important sentence in that reasoning of the law. So, after these changes, students benefit directly or indirectly, I don't care. That students benefit, that intermediaries have less benefit and that there will be no more money laundering through student service and that the question of student standard and thus I end up not only depends on whether students work temporarily in business or not because the entire concept of caring for student standards has so far been based on the fact that students working through the profit centre should finance their own standards. So I expect the proposal and also because of the Bologna process that students will no longer work, that the state from the budget will provide enough funding without the rehabilitation of student centres to make student homes cheap or free, cafeterias even cheaper and conditions of study ideal. So it's kind of announced here today if I get it right. I will ask my colleague Lugaric to follow this bill when he comes with all the reasons today to see what these solutions will be offered by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19807	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19808	Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, first reading, P.Z. No. 121. Proposing representative Dragutin Lesar. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: No draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education is adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 35 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19809	We're going to the next point. - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, first reading, P.Z. No. 144 Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar The Government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Proposer Mr Dragutin Lesar will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19810	Mr. Vice President. The following proposal for a legislative initiative that I have given to you, colleagues and colleagues, concerns the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and in its content is very short and simple and I hope to all understandable and it is about that the provisions of this Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest also apply to members of the committee selected from the ranks of prominent public employees of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, at the beginning of this year, we changed the law in which we changed the structure of the members of the commission, increased the number of members we call the external members, went with the provision that the chairman of the commission was necessarily one of the five members of the public dignitaries. However, obviously we have all missed the provisions of the law on respect or the part of the law governing obligations do not apply to them because they are not covered by the law or by government officials which is good but also by this law. And first I want to remove the dilemma. This bill of law doesn't mean we're declaring them government officials because it's the second law, it's the State Officials Act. My proposal is that for all members of the commission, then, all 11 of them, this law applies from the beginning to the end. So it's very simple! In response to the Government or in the light of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the reason that my proposal is rejected, I do not know why I am not surprised it says that these five members of the Commission are in no way able to come into conflict of interest. I repeat, by rejecting my proposal, the government has interpreted these five members of the commission as in no way being able to come into conflict of interest. Now I ask, all of us together, please, whether members of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, selected from the ranks of public dignitaries can receive a gift worth more than 500 kuna than a state official, a member of the management of a company in a majority or in full ownership of a state or even of a person whose case is before the Commission to determine a possible conflict of interest. Because the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to Persons covered by this Act prohibits receiving gifts worth more than 500 kuna. However, since Article 2 does not state that this law applies to them, they are not subject to a ban on receiving gifts. Thus, the government is in the view that these five members of the commission are free to receive gifts without any restriction. Second. Whether these five members, as well as the other six elected from the ranks of MPs, have to hand over property cards to the public and only the commission. What is the function of the property cards we introduced? To present to the public our property situation at the beginning and at the end of the term of office. Which should be proof that we have not misused our duties and positions and thus acquired property as a product of entry into conflict of interest. And what is particularly important is the adoption of a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. We have committed ourselves, we have given a message that we accept the rules of conduct and that we are willing to take control of our conduct in a possible conflict of interest and that we are willing to accept their sanctions if we break the law. Furthermore, can members of the commission not covered by this law so far be members of the supervisory boards and boards of directors, state-owned companies in majority or state-owned companies? Could they be members of the board of directors? Under the current law, I can. Is this a potential conflict of interest? If government officials are prohibited, under only certain conditions, and apparently only ministers are allowed to be at most two members of the Supervisory Board, there are no restrictions here. Fourth. This law lays down the principle of action of officials. Allow me to quote you paragraph 1. of Article 3. Thus, “the law on preventing conflicts of interest lays down the principle on which we must act. Officials in the conduct of public duties must act with honor, fair, conscientiously, responsibly and impartially, keeping their own credibility and dignity entrusted to them and citizens' trust." This is a provision of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which I propose also applies to five external members of the commission. Should they guard, work honestly, honestly, consciously, responsibly, and impartially? I think that and that this provision of the law must apply to them as well. If we don't get it into the law, if we don't put it in Article 2 of the Law, and absurdly, the members of the municipal commission, we've put our heads in the law. Therefore, members of the municipal headship in the municipality of 1000 inhabitants must be honorable, fair, conscious, responsible and impartial, but members of the commission who oversee their work do not have to comply with these provisions. Furthermore, this law regulates and determines who the persons associated with us must also be covered by, or whose business or other activities are considered to be related to us. Thus, Article 4 states: “In the sense of this connected person, marriage or extramarital debt of officials, his relatives by blood in the vertical line, adoptors and adoptors, relatives in the lateral line, second-degree relatives and relatives by first instance, and other persons who, under other grounds and circumstances, can reasonably be considered to be connected with the official, ” e.g. Children, daughter. This provision of the law does not apply to those members because they are not covered by the application of the law. And another quote: “The ban on the actions of officials.”, which also applies to those five members of the commission, does not apply: “The officials are prohibited from acting as follows: to receive or demand the benefit or promise of benefit for the purpose of carrying out their duties, to obtain or obtain the right in the event that the principle of equality is violated before the law, to abuse the special rights of officials who arise or are required to perform their duties, to receive additional compensation for public duties, to seek, accept or receive a value or service for voting on any matter or affecting the decision of a body or of a person for personal break or breach of a connected person, to promise employment or any other right to replace a gift or a promised gift, to influence the acquisition of jobs in public procurement.” I will now stop quoting, because what I have quoted, according to me, is quite enough. Members of the commission should indeed be moral verticals in terms of our responsibility, our promises to citizens and voters that we will behave in accordance with the law. If they are the ones watching someone else because of the zero point of their credibility, the provision of the law must apply to them. But everything that has happened in the last days and months and not been resolved until the end, especially because of the fact that, since October of last year, in the last meeting, the commission has had one session to determine the work report for the past year, and all the time since then until today, this commission is constantly being established and elected by the presidents and presidents and nothing more. Since the commission did not check and determine whether several hundred officials who had suspended their mandate at the beginning of the year had given their property cards on their way out of office. Nor did they check whether those who came on duty on time and accurately filled out the dedicated property cards. Given the fact that I've heard, I've read in the media that there are several charges against officials that should be passed by the river and it's not passed I think I've made a mistake proposing amendments to the law. I think I simply had to propose that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest be abolished, the Commission disband because it is obviously a political decision and a will that neither the law we apply nor respect nor that the commission does anything. Because if otherwise, it would have been held every week, worked, reported to us and the Croatian public what they found, what they do, how they do, what problems they have, what cases they have ended and processed, rather than constantly trying around new members and, in particular, I like the sentence, I repeat, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that these public dignitaries cannot possibly be in conflict of interest. One such conflict of interest was less than a month ago when the former president has now postponed the scheduled session for private reasons. For a private reason, she put her private reason in front of the general and social not allowing the session to be held, elect a vice president or vice president so that the commission and for her private reasons could continue to work in her absence. Wasn't that a classic example of putting a private one in front of a social one? But the government still thinks they can't possibly be in conflict of interest and that they don't have to comply with this law. If they don't have to and if they don't, and if they don't control us here, what do we need? Let's break the law, disband this commission because they can't be in conflict of interest anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19811	Thank you. Legislative committees, Constitution, Rules of Procedure, political system? Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinions? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ MPs Mr. Kronoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19812	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Secretary of State of the Central Office. So here's a few words about this law. Unfortunately, here's the opinion of fellow Lesar and us from the HDZ Club really don't match in this case, and we certainly won't support it. Why? Because, in fact, it's all about a few people to give them some status of state officials or officials to whom this law applies and something else needs to be changed. We can't say here now that they're not, they don't belong to any of these groups, but we'll simply apply the law to them. I wouldn't be surprised if my colleague Lesar talked about the need to reduce the number of those who, for example, are members of the headship and the like, but this is about 5 people who, if we apply what this law requires, will simply produce an avalanche of further demands. So let's talk about outside board members. We have a whole series of outside board members, and they kind of affect what's happening here, and we could just say, well, now we're going all in order. And then I ask you who will want to be both an outside board member and a commission and all. Namely officials in, external officials here do not influence. They do not affect the availability of state resources. They're controlling us. Here it is also necessary to say six representatives in the commission who will also come into a situation to control themselves but we are in some way affecting events, affecting the budget. So we influence the availability of social, public resources, state and public resources while, and logically, the law applies to us by other obligations. So commission, these public employees I don't think we should, this shouldn't apply to them. And here I support the government's opinion. What I'd like to say is, everything that's happened hasn't been pleasant to anyone. That's definitely it. He'll be here. The commission will meet for a second time soon. Something's already done. A few reports, the application's gone too. So now we don't think there's a bunch of applications here. There are very few applications. They're working themselves out. The commission finally has a very high quality professional service now. Lawyers who also make resolution proposals. They'll meet very soon, so there'll be a sequel, so we can't really talk about absolute unhappiness. But what I was going to say. Every time and this is what the knights are looking for. But I assure you there are no dragons or windmills, so there's no need to waste energy. And I repeat, the HDZ Club will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19813	Thank you. The HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, therefore here is my colleague, Mr. Lesar, who is persistent, although he is well aware in advance that everything he proposes, besides that we are actually used to the opposition, the conditional reflex was created. So anything the opposition suggests no matter how high and good, no matter how justified it is, it refuses, but is rejected in various ways. There are few examples where this refusal of such proposals by the Government is justified by facts rather than mainly by the government's reasoning on this proposal, regardless of how far it really goes into a small segment. He says, respected or respected public workers, therefore, who have gained their reputation through their public works and who have been elected, voted in the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest, the Government says that these public employees cannot in any way come into conflict of interest. I expected the government's representatives to really explain this a little bit. Maybe I'm constrained with consciousness, so I won't be able to understand your explanation either. But at least I expected you to explain. I ask you to explain to me that a public employee in the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest when deciding, potentially deciding, has a small number of applications. Okay, I'll come back a little later for a few applications. When deciding on Liburnias, funds, bank affairs, Maestro, for example. Why don't you think that the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest might decide on ministers on the Supervisory Board, on their responsibility, on their possible conflict of interest in the Maestro Privatisation Fund affair. Well, we could, we could make a pretty good decision. These public employees could decide. Whether public workers live in an oasis, in some greenhouse, and do not come into direct contact with these same ministers, with government representatives, are not tempted. So reality and last events deny it. They do come in contact with top state officials, sitting here. Imagine, they decide under the Law of Conflict of Interest. These same public employees decide either in accordance with or should decide in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and they themselves are not within that law and on them, so those who do not only raise their hands, but decide on them, the Law on the conflict of interest does not apply. I think it's a little bit illogical. At least this is the Commission's decision on a conflict of interest whose basis is in deciding the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and then it is a minimum of some correctness to apply to these members of the commission the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I don't think I should at least be further elaborated for what, why. And after all, you know what. I think that these public workers who are now in the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, including a public worker who will be elected by a public invitation that follows, who will appoint this Assembly, I believe that they would not mind that this amendment be adopted. I don't think they'd mind, too, taking their property card to the public and I don't think they'd really mind the law on preventing conflicts of interest and being officials in terms of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I'll give you another example. The government says there's no way I can come into conflict of interest. So members sitting in the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest can come between themselves into conflict of interest. For example, you have a case that in the Committee for Prevention, to decide on the prevention of conflicts of interest is a college-educated representative of the Croatian Parliament who has ambition to, for example, work at a university, and he started activities in his scientific training. Of course you need to pass the master's degree, then the doctorate, and then of course in college, in science you can only then go to that doctorate, the profession. But the first step is a master's degree. And in that commission are public employees from the university. Is that right? Who are very respected at college. Isn't there a possible conflict of interest, that distinguished representative is acting on his colleague at the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest and after more attempts to reach the Master's Office, that now finally this master's work in the Committee for the Decision of Conflict of Interest and Circle Forwards? Just an example, and you think about it. I think it's so life-threatening and so realistic, a possible example, that this already proves that my thesis, and Mr. Lesar's proposal to public employees working in the Committee on Conflict of Interest, applies exactly this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, or that, in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, they are officials. And yet another brief comment on why, it was said here at the pay phone that the commission had very few applications. So who's going to report, in which the Commission's decision to conflict of interest is reported any conflict of interest. Well, we've had a series of affairs. So do you think that a conflict of interest should be reported to the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest when the commission does not work at all. Why isn't it working? Well, because it's political will, the will of the majority in this Croatian Parliament to cloud things. Those who have a majority in the Croatian Parliament are obviously interested in the Commission's decision on conflict of interest not working. Because if it hadn't been for this year then it wouldn't have been this situation, if the Commission had actually decided on a conflict of interest it doesn't have its own president. Open only a board website, open the Croatian Assembly website, and you will see in fact that the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest has done virtually nothing. And so much in this Croatian Parliament we have created preconditions starting with work space, about associates. So we verbally supported him, but we do everything we can to make sure that the Committee on Conflict of Interest doesn't work, that we don't talk about how to choose this same commission, and that we don't say that in this Croatian Parliament, unfortunately, it happens and that it chooses the Commission to decide on the conflict of interest of the majority and people who don't belong there at all. Not by his work, not by his reputation. I am only talking about an individual, I am talking about an individual, not about the other members chosen from the order of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, or from the order of public employees. Therefore, Mr. Lesar, the HDSSB club will fully support this proposal to supplement the Law on Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19815	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative of Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to correct the obvious inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague who said this commission is not working. This commission is working and working on the basis of the amended and complemented by this basic law, professional services are working, the new president has been elected, the items are arriving, collected, processed and will be processed very soon both from the session of the commission and on these cases only the commission is manifested. So, the commission is absolutely working in accordance with the regulations that this High House has brought. There have been difficulties in establishing and selecting the president of the commission, however, these difficulties are behind us. Here are the meetings held this morning, and I hope that very soon only the commission will continue its work continuously and as provided for by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19817	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19818	Well, a colleague of Šišljagic incorrectly states that the commission should deal with affairs or so on. affairs. In fact, they should then have the power of the State's Attorney's Office because what it deals with, the cases involved by the State's Attorney's Office or courts, these cases are not to be dealt with and cannot be dealt with by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19819	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, at the very beginning of my debate, I will say that I do not support this proposal to supplement the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of the public duties proposed by Mr Dragutin Lesar. I'm going to say next and the reason why I'm not going to propose this, but it's certainly important to say what's important before the public understands better? It is important to note that the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties has been explicitly adopted with a view to removing the possibility of public and local officials who have in their conduct state and public resources, to deploy those funds for the benefit of the common good rather than for their own benefit or family benefit. The Committee for the Conflict of Interests, as we have heard, as previous colleagues have said, consists of representatives and external members who are from the ranks of prominent and public employees, who do not have state or public resources and are not state officials and cannot in any way enter into a situation in which they might conflict between private and public interest. And I would conclude in the end that there is no logic that the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests applies to these independent members of the Commission, i.e. who are from the ranks of prominent and public employees because they are not Croatian officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19821	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course I won't support the bill of amendments, or the addition of the law. My predecessors said those main arguments that made this unacceptable. The external members of the committee in the ranks of respected employees are not officials, not formally, nor really, nor should these amendments make them, so this is a key argument why I will not support the amendment of this law and there is no need to, since they do not have the status of officials to meet those cards, report property, etc. The fact is that there may have been problems in the work of the commission and there may have been problems at the moment, but it is not only up to the commission, so here I will remind my colleague, Šišljagić, who spoke on behalf of the HDSSB club, that in the previous meeting of the commission, the commission made a decision that the Osijek-Baranja parish was Buric in conflict of interest. The obligation was to publish that decision in the county messenger, however, the county in which most of the HDSSB has not done so and has not published that decision, so it has not fulfilled its obligation. The easiest way is often to blame others, but I say not only for the commission, but other institutions also need to do their part of the work when it comes to the Law of Conflict of Interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19823	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. I would like to say that when this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was passed in 2003, it was meant to be a powerful weapon, not only in the fight against corruption, but in the most dangerous political corruption. He should have returned more morals to politics and faith in politicians. This is what we miss most because you saw Galup's July research on the issue you consider the biggest threat to Croatian society, 97% answered corrupt politicians. Everything that has happened since the day we voted for amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, has proven that these changes have not gone in this direction, the return of faith in politics and politicians. I'm asking you, is our law even in practice? We have expanded the list of officials covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to All Headships. I ask you how many chieftains in the Republic of Croatia have made a decision that members who have entered into conflict of interest or cease to be members of the headship or transfer shares to companies in accordance with the law. Whether or not the commission has made an effort to refer if nothing else interprets this decision, this law in the heads of local self-government units. I'm telling you, the law doesn't apply in practice. This is proof that it does not even function and fulfils the basic function of returning faith in politics and politicians, and I fear that something will be needed in the shortest time that this law fulfils its function, and everything that has happened since the day we voted in this assembly is going in the opposite direction despite what we have said in opposition which is not good in this law. And I agree with someone who said, I really don't understand why no proposal that comes from the opposition can be accepted in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19825	Thank you. And on behalf of the final five-minute club, the HNS club, the distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19826	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Croatian People's Party club supports the proposal of independent representative Dragutin Lesar for several reasons. First of all, the task of the political elite in the Republic of Croatia is to restore people's confidence in politics as an honorable activity for the common good. The commitment concerns the parliamentary majority in particular. In particular, it refers to those who have techniques that can be done. We witness this every day in our actions as individuals, as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but also as members of all the early bodies not only of the Parliament but also of the executive level. It is a high level of responsibility to realize that a large part of the public understands politics in the Republic of Croatia as a moral-free space, as a space without ethics, and the fact is that we politicians have definitely contributed actively. If it's possible to do something that might cause this situation or at least change perception, because we're not all the same, then it would be good about such substances to have a consensus because it's the common interest of all of us, it's the interest of our children who have to believe that what we're dealing with makes sense. In this respect, the story of preventing conflicts of interest is extremely important, especially in the context of which the Commission has brought about to prevent conflicts of interest appointed by this Assembly. There's no reason to be in the sense of that law and an independent so-called. members of that body shall not submit to the same criteria as all the other officials in the Republic of Croatia. They are not starting to be automatically state officials, they are not starting to be public officials in terms of the law that defines it but only in this obligation. It is precisely to strengthen their position as independent members of this committee that they should be under public scrutiny under the same criteria as everyone else. It's just a healthy logic. In this sense, the Croatian People's Party supports the proposal and will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19827	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When a colleague Markovanovic spoke on behalf of the HDZ club, he expressed a fundamental objection that I am trying to place five members of the commission on this proposal and declare the state officials and in the entire debate on this side of the assembly, this issue is present. Now please listen to me carefully. Article 2 of the current law begins with the sentence: Officials within the meaning of this law are, in particular, the following: directors of agencies and directors of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and directors of the institution appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the sense of this law, are they government officials in the sense of the State Officials Act? Furthermore, the presidents and members of the management of companies fully owned by the state. So the members of the company management within the meaning of this law are officials. Have they been declared state officials by the Law of State officials? No, they're not. Further, mayors, Mayor of the City of Zagreb and their deputies. Are they government officials? No, they're not. Mayors, municipal commissioners and their deputies. Are they government officials? No, they're not. Members of the county, city and municipal headships and members of the headship of the City of Zagreb. Are they government officials? No, they're not. But within the meaning of this law, the law calls them officials to whom the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests applies. So this law is already a category of officials, but only for the purposes of this law, extended far beyond and the Law on State officials and local or regional if you will. So... It's out. [[You don't understand.]] When it spread even to members of the headship in municipalities, cities and counties, and to this fellow Jovanovic reminded us, we said don't do it, it won't end well. But it insisted on stretching to as many people as possible. Now five of them are the problem. But interestingly, when the media asked what they thought about this proposal, the three said they immediately accepted it and were ready for the first step of their property cards to be published. Some did. One was explicitly against, and one could not be found because it was so public that no journalist could reach it. Furthermore, I cannot be in conflict of interest, you accept the government's position. There's no way I can come to a conflict of interest. That means they can't possibly take a gift from me. I give them a gift of 1,000 kuna worth. They're not really in a conflict of interest. I am because I can't give it away. But if he does, and he's in the commission to process me for giving him a gift, do you realize the absurdity? I will be in conflict of interest because I gave a member or a member of the commission a gift worth a thousand kuna, she will give me a sanction, but she is not in conflict of interest because she received a gift from me. That makes sense to you, too. All right, great, that's the logic of Croatian policy to prevent conflicts of interest. I can't be in a conflict of interest, but there's the BOOK saying some of them can take bribes. Okay, and that's good. And the message is final of the rulers: Here is the commission so far that it has not worked, and now it will work. Now he's gonna do what? New forms of property cards will be made. I've been here less than five years, you know how many forms we've been filling out so far? We're changing patterns, those papers that... On the Internet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The forms will change, it was the most important news, that the commission decided to change the patterns in which we would refill and display probably the same data in a different order so that they could put them on the Internet. So how long has it been since we entered the Parliament? Where are our property cards, are they posted somewhere on the Internet? So isn't there a time limit for the commission to publish my property card, yours, all the new officials who entered January and December to power? Now they're gonna do the commission, what? View how many thousands of cards have been handed over? The professional service works, the professional service has nothing to look at. It's not the authority of the professional service, it's the authority of the members of the commission and no one else. We are clouding the problem and recommending: We have made changes to the law at the beginning of this year, politicized this commission, not depolitized as was then explained, only with one goal, that the law is not respected, not applied, and that the commission does new forms every six months. And these members of the commission are as pure as angels of heaven who cannot possibly come into conflict of interest. Refuse that proposal. A colleague of Jovanovic, you wonder why none of the opposition can be accepted. Because the logic of these rulings is that any proposal that would be accepted by the opposition is a sign of their weakness. As long as they have a feeling of weakness, our proposals will not be accepted, be assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19829	Thank you. And we have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll take these 20s, 30 inaccurate allegations at a speed of one, two. We're not clouding the problem. It is precisely the proposal for this law, or the debate of the promoter, that cloudes the problem. Because the promoter doesn't realize that all those ballots are not examined by the commission, are examined by the professional service and reports how many ballots have been submitted, how many ballots have not been handed over, so there's a whole series. Secondly, the blur was that we, me and the others, had led me to say that we were just talking about a law that applied to government officials. We said the other officials this law applies to. Therefore, there are a whole series of things that you incorrectly claim, and especially that nothing from the opposition is accepted which is not true. Remember, though, when you were in power and we were in opposition, what was happening. It's a good thing you let us into the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19831	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19832	Ten. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, first reading of P.Z. Number 144. Proposing representative Dragutin Lesar. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposed conclusion was accepted by most votes; 78 votes for, nothing abstentioned and 38 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19833	And we're going to point 13. - Proposed law on attorney for retireds and elderly persons, first reading, P.Z. No. 143 Proposer: club of representatives of HSLS and HSU. The legislator is representatives' clubs. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19834	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Popovic, colleagues and colleagues. I have a duty, but also an honor to present to you an original bill of law called the Proposed Law on Advocates for Retired People and Older Persons. At the beginning, I would like to say something about the number of people this law would refer to, the number of Croatian citizens. At this point, we have a million 135 thousand pensioners in Croatia, including 80 thousand living outside the Republic of Croatia and receiving, are on our so-called payroll or receiving a pension from here. But we still have 150 thousand people by estimates over 60, and they have no income other than social income, and this bill includes about a million 250 thousand people, which is 28% of the population of Croatia. That's what I'm saying in the opening so that in some ways those who said that if we go with the attorney general's hyperproduction, we'll soon have the defenders for the doctor, then the dentists, then the mechanics. It is simply not so, it is a cartoonization of this situation, because this is too many citizens who really live in eating in our conditions, but lives under conditions that we very little know and much is happening in that part of our citizens, and we know little about it. The second reason why we went to the Proposed Law on Ombudsmans for pensioners and elderly people is that this population is growing, that projections say that the proportion of old people, so the person over 65, according to 2031 should be around 22%, and according to the blackest scenario, the proportion of people over 65 should be 25.5% in Croatia. The expected duration of life in Croatia for men is 72 years, for women 79 years and it is growing slowly. Regardless of our difficulties, bad living standards, conditions of life are progressing, and medicine and life spans continue. It is somewhat lower than the European Union average, but the trend is upward. So, these citizens of ours, this large population has a lot of problems that are very rarely spoken of as being, unfortunately, spoken with the position that the problems of pensioners are the burden of society, which is not true. They're our resources, they're just the ones who made assumptions that we could live like this, or that we could live better tomorrow, and that's why we went with this proposal. You know when you get an answer from the Ombudsman, i.e. when they are given advice from the attorney general to be patient until the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia solves their case, and they are over 80 years old, and then you realize how fast the institutions of the system are and how much they appreciate the growing age of our citizens and how much they are willing to help them. Of course, the number of complaints that we have heard in the public defender's report has been reduced year by year. This does not have to be a priority sign or a dominant sign that there are fewer problems in the retirement population. This can be a completely different indicator, that definitely pensioners lose confidence in the system and that it makes them sicker to turn and weigh, and never get a solution from the system institution. That's why we wanted to introduce a little dynamics into this world, introduce a Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament of Manchester who would specialize in solving their problems. No legal precedent is present here, because we already have specialised defenders for gender equality, for children and for persons with disabilities. Therefore, there is no legal obstacle in terms of precedents so that we could not have a lawyer for pensioners and elderly persons in Croatia, given such a large population and the burden of problems. In the end, in many countries that have accepted the concept of specialized Twins there are also Twins for pensioners or older people. Thus, the Parliamentary Commissioner, i.e. the Ombudsman for pensioners, exists in Great Britain, Canada, Ireland, Belgium, in Poland, there is a Frankfurt or an insurance attorney whose work is surrounded by commercial insurance and pension and health and disability insurance, in Finland is operated by a local pension boyifier, in many federal countries there is a Heroes for persons whose primary task is to monitor the situation in the homes of pensioners and homes for elderly and powerless persons, and who even in these homes are named by users for their assistant who collect complaints from home service users. Today, I received a complaint from a pensioner from Split this morning that his pension came from Serbia-Montenegro, which is 10% lower than last month, without any explanation. It's to find the citizens. The system is bound to protect them. They were particularly threatened after signing social agreements between the former Yugoslav states and the coalition government saw this as a major problem and gave one addition to a pension that was not the happiest solution, at least in their own words, but helped. You can't say he didn't help. However, the law ceased to apply in 2004 and despite our efforts in Croatia, there is still no solution for this group of our citizens. They violate human rights by foreign insurance companies. Is that enough reason to have a specialized institution? He says there's only a few of them. There's not a few of them. Those who receive pensions from other republics have 63,000. So they're not small numbers. Next, what's very hard to prove, but there is, there's violence against old people. It has the exploitation of old people and the material exploitation of its loved ones. It's very little, almost nothing to say, except sometimes something in black chronicles. God forbid our walls, our houses and glass apartments would then see all the tragedies happening to the elderly in their families. Unfortunately, the majority of the family are good and happy and stable families, but only if one elderly person is in danger in one family is sufficient reason for us to react. We just can't keep quiet. What do we want to do with this law? I therefore want to establish an independent and independent body that promotes and protects the rights of pensioners and older persons, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, international contracts and agreements, and by the laws and regulations of the Republic of Croatia, as well as by this law. We wish to regulate the conditions for the selection and resolution of the Ombudsman for pensioners and older persons and his deputies, the part-round and the manner of work of the Ombudsman for pensioners and elderly persons, the way in which the Croatian Parliament is reported to the public and relevant administrative bodies and bodies with public authority. We want to define the attorney's powers for pensioners and elderly persons, we want to arrange the professional service of counsellors for pensioners and elderly persons and other issues of importance for the work of counselors for pensioners and older persons. There's one more thing about the threat areas of our pensioners. Home accommodation capacity has increased, especially in the last ten years in the private sector. We have no indication of the quality of life in those private institutions. The state network has its own criteria, it has its own control, in private accommodation we have no standards, we have no categorization and we have no idea what's going on here. And yet another area of the threat of older people is household rights. I have sent a letter to former Minister Lovrin about solving ten housing problems in Leprechaun Retired People who were employed there and cannot possibly exercise the right to buy their apartments. People like that talk to me daily. Unprotected. Their real name is protected tenants but I say unprotected tenants whose owners sell with a variety of equilibristics what they mean a roof over their heads and bring in their late years of unrest, anxiety, frustration and all that they at that age, which they should not be exposed to at that age. So, we imagined that in the bill of law in the proposal for these legal provisions to respond to those laws, we gave him more powers than the other lawyers have on purpose to respond to those laws that reduce the rights of the pensioners and the elderly because I think it's correct. I don't think we've come out of the box anywhere that the Constitution gives to the Attorney General or the Attorney General. They are not ficuses, they must play an active role in society. And secondly, my fellow opposition colleagues, you don't have to be the only ones to be frustrated that you don't get away with anything. I, unfortunately, have to realize that and on this bill, the government was being negatively obvious. Therefore, I now have the honour of being in the role of the opposition. But here we must first and fundamentally do our duty for what we have been elected here to this House. I tell everyone coalition agreements are not vows of silence, we have the right to creation, to initiative, to encourage. So we have the right to create so-called. new values in politics, not just being passive. Therefore, a little later I will be involved and explain the government's opinion, or our position regarding the government's opinion, but I certainly must say in the introduction that I would be happier if the government had said two things, and the first thing that it wants to reform the Office of the Police Attorney, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, and to introduce under one of the defence attorneys and not to have every special institute. I would see that as a valid reason, and I would probably withdraw this bill in that case. So that would be one reason. I would also like that, in the reasons of the government's refusal, it was written that the government intends, in the context of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, to strengthen the role of the Ombudsman, and it is possible to specialise again its structures for certain areas than it is mentioned but on the part of what the Government thinks I leave behind, in the final part, to say what we disagree with, and to recommend that the Government once again, regardless of what this bill is going to be rejected, to reconsider either the reform of the entire defence system or the adoption of this bill, because we are not going to calm down with this refusal. We have the right to propose again. In fact, we're going to do this proposal and we're going to move forward until this problem is sort of solved. Thank you for your attention. In the final address, I will look again at the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19835	I thank the proposer. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19836	Honorable Vice President, Chief, fellow MPs. The proposed law proposes the establishment of an independent independent body, which would promote and protect the rights of pensioners and older persons as the authority of the Croatian Parliament. The Advocate General for Retired and Older Persons would provide free legal assistance and professional assistance in order to ensure that their rights are not violated. And that would be all right, and it would all be good and necessary in any case that the pensioners and the elderly in the current legal system were left without any solution to the protection of their rights. But the fact is that there are a number of institutions where pensioners and elderly people can use and use and protect their rights. The Croatian Pension Insurance Office provides free legal assistance to insurance and pensioners. The Office’s professional service also resolves the performances of pensioners forwarded to it by the Ombudsman. And we had the opportunity to see from the 2007 Police Attorney's Report that there was a halted trend in complaints against the Institute as if good co-operation had been established between the Police Attorney and the Institute. The protection of older people with small or no pension incomes is also provided by the Law on Free Legal Assistance. The pensioners have their representatives in the Governing Council of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. I will remind you that these are representatives of the Retired Mother, that they are representatives of the Retired Union. So, pensioners also have their own union that cares about solving the existential problems of their members. So they have their own queen, but they also have their own party. But not only do they have their own party but they also have all the other parties that are open to them to provide any protection both legal and professional. In the past, throughout a series of measures, the standard of living for pensioners has been improved. Thus, the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia initiated the process of compensation for pensioners, while the Law on the Supplement to Pensions reduced the difference between so-called so-called pensions. old and new pensioners. Furthermore, the establishment of the ministry, family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity has started building a system aimed at caring for older people, providing assistance for the fourth year has been continuously implemented. Since not only is the low standard of living for pensioners and elderly people the problem they face but social isolation should be strengthened beyond the institutional form of care for the elderly. In this respect, at the level of local communities, cooperation between government and not government services that are concerned with meeting the specific needs of older people should be encouraged, i.e. fostering fostering fostering, volunteering, etc. Following the above, the establishment of a new institution on the burden of the state budget would not be justified but would not be economical. The improvement of the quality of life of older people is implemented through various intergenerational solidarity programmes, and in this respect cooperation and partnership between the authorities of the state administration, local communities, civil society organisations, religious and human organisations should be encouraged. We believe that the existing capacities should first be strengthened and measures should be taken to improve the quality of the work of existing institutions that have the powers to act. So there should be a quality analysis prior to which to determine what does not satisfy it in the existing system, means it is not good and whether it is not possible to improve well in order to reach the conclusion that this new proposed institution should or should not be established. Since the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman for pensioners and the elderly will not make any significant difference in the pension or social status of pensioners, except to impose a new budget cost. This proposal should be accepted as a positive act, but so far there is no need for its adoption. And that's why the Croatian Democratic Community Club, for all of these reasons I've been talking about, cannot support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19837	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go. He's gone. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19838	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, Mr. Kunst, in his presentation and the name of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, said more or less everything that is important for me to say not to accept this law. We are all aware that the problems of the pensioners exist, however, we are also aware of another fact that is extremely important at the moment, which is that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is indeed actively caring for pensioners. On the way of the Ombudsman, pensioners can also achieve their protection and the Law on Free Legal Assistance will help pensioners who have little means to achieve their protection in a more adequate way. What I think is extremely important to point out here is that many pensioners will be able to achieve their protection through the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, given that there is a large number, that a large number of pensioners have some kind of disability, whether they are younger or older already and as young people, many face disability. So I think that a large number of pensioners are also covered by the D.A., the D.A.'s Office for Persons with Disabilities, and will thus be able to protect their rights and interests. It certainly seems to me that institutions that today care for the rights and interests of pensioners and older persons certainly need to improve their work and would not be exempt from forming a separate department within the framework of the Ombudsman who will take care of the pensioners and the elderly, but it is my opinion that at this point it is not necessary to pass a law on the Ombudsman for the pensioners and the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19839	Thank you very much to Mrs. Representatives. It's Madam Representative Neda Klaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19840	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. We must say that, in fact, the proposal on the Ombudsman for pensioners and elderly persons proposes the introduction of a completely new, additional institution to which the basic task would be to protect the rights of pensioners and older people by providing free legal assistance. So we've heard it before from both Mr. Kunst and Mrs. Lukacic. However, the institution's introduction should be once again highlighted would be affected by the authority and the part-round of the occupier within which pensioners are equally protected as third-year persons in their rights. It is the intergenerational solidarity management of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity that is targeted and systematically concerned about this sensitive and vulnerable group of citizens developing here for the fifth year of programmes for older people, including programmes and volunteer assistance, and analyses of the results of these programmes clearly indicate that the elderly are experiencing just social exclusion as the most significant difficulty, i.e. isolation. The programmes implemented by this ministry but together with the units of local self-government I can definitely testify to a truly beautiful merger I would also say excellent cooperation between the Ministry of Family Exactly, the Intergenerational Solidarity Administration and the City of Sibenik on programmes towards pensioners and third-age persons such as living room for third-year people who live constantly in their homes but spend a good part of the day organised in the existing home of pensioners i.e. the establishment which is in the management of the Ministry of Health and Social Care and then through organised assistance and care in the house mainly for third-aged people living on islands through organised excursions, the delivery of heating wood and all of that, in fact, which is an irrevocable difficulty for third-aged people, and which has proved to be very successful and accepted by users. Furthermore, the Croatian Institute, and we have already heard, provides free legal assistance for insurance and pensioners for pensioners. Communications with insurance companies is also done via a free open phone. In the resolution of the complaints lodged, the Institute also resolves the performances provided to it by the Ombudsman and as a result of these programmes, a rise in or a trend in direct communication growth on the open phone and, on the other hand, a decline in the number of written performances by the institution has been recorded. Therefore, the rights of users can definitely not be considered endangered and free legal assistance is adequately ensured through the existing system. But we must also point out once again that recently passed the Law at the Croatian Assembly on Free Legal Assistance is another quality in the protection of pensioners and persons of the third age. Otherwise, the House Review suggests that, as the Proposer actually and among other arguments, it cites through the review of homes for the accommodation of the gariatrian departments and similar institutions, the hospital by the Ombudsman would be crossing definitely the frameworks of power because it has already been governed by other regulations. I therefore believe that it is more quality and efficient to strengthen existing capacities and potentials, by additional measures and programmes to improve the quality of life of third-aged persons than to establish another new institution such as the Ombudsman for pensioners and older persons. In doing so, I definitely think that we can even consider setting up a special department, so let's call it whatever is most appropriate with the existing Public Attorney's Office so that we can therefore strengthen and unite the already existing potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19841	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19842	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I would also share the skepticism of those who hold that the introduction of another institute such as the attorney in this case may not be the happiest solution. Of course, my reasons and arguments for this are quite different nature and nature from those presented by HDZ colleagues. On the contrary, I think it is commendable in this initiative to open the debate even though it will take as long as I can see it. Here about a segment of Croatian society, about a population that is unfortunately a group of weaker people in society, older people are weaker in society, generationally simply stegmatized and brought into a social position, and this has not always been the case and is not the case everywhere. That means it doesn't have to be in Croatia either. In ancient times there were gerontocrat societies that respected seniority, age, wisdom, and so on. People were integrated older into their families, in their communities, appreciated their experience, their knowledge and what they could give in socializing new generations and so on. Modern societies especially within the 20th century when there was an expansion of social rights... Civil, human, social rights have provided old people with decent age throughout their lives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even today, the most relevant and competent social policy theorists are actually warning that in Western European societies, the most protected groups are actually older. The pensioners are least disabled in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark. These are the people you can meet, for example, you go to a Spanish Malaga city that has about 300, 400 thousand inhabitants, and there are 50,000 Germans living, these are the Germans who, after retirement, sold their houses and went to live in Spain. Croatian pensioners, of course, can't even dream of going to the sea once a year for 14 days, let alone moving and buying villas. We have a situation where the situation of older people is indeed extremely difficult. The risk of poverty in Croatia, you know what is the greatest risk of being poor? Low education in the first place, second place age. That's scary. That's scary. It's a data that says that even in a moral sense, we've broken down because we isolate and thus excommunicate in a social sense a group of people who actually, with their whole life, have actually created assumptions that we're working. So it's learning into a very dangerous zone where it's unknowable and the future. Why do we mention the future in this context? So let's just say that I'm sorry that you haven't mentioned it once before, and I've waited, not because I think you're a representative of the pensioners, but you're a member of the ruling coalition. Why didn't you warn us here you're talking about 60 thousand older people over 65 who don't take a pension, and the government is committed to the agreement you signed that by the sixth month of 2008. You didn't ask that question, and today we're talking about it. It bothers me. I know you can't do everything within that coalition, but we don't open those questions. We sign something, we blur our eyes and we don't care. Those 60,000 who don't have the right to retire have no one to represent. They're not even voters. These are people who live on the edges of society. It's those who roll over garbage cans or we don't even see them because they live in some villages away from their eyes in total social misery without any existential conditions and beyond civilization. These are our senior citizens. Is there any reason to look for a lawyer then? You'll never speak to that defense attorney, either, you won't. Our colleagues tried to dechementally defend their counterargument to form the fact that we have institutions. I say vice versa, no, we don't. Croatia is the only country in Europe, the only state in Europe that does not have the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as a single institution, a central place and a body of the state that cares, which it is designing, which analyses and foresees jobs related to the social security of people in this country, not even for the elderly. The ministry of work of a colleague has in its pension portfolio not intergenerational solidarity. I don't know what he's doing. You have the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare as third minister. Who do these people talk to? You have the Pension Insurance Office that sent us the report these days, and in that report, we're going to have to spray our caramels because it's beautiful everything in the pension system. And nobody, for example, says what's gonna happen, but let's let the pensioners go now. What happens to people who are now 30, 40, who are paying into the second pillar, and in that second pillar, nothing has changed in the last seven years since it lasts and it is clear that 5% of the separation will not be enough to ensure a decent pension for those who are now working. Well, we're irresponsible. We leave because we won't be in power, we won't be parliamentary representatives or ministers in 10, 15, 20 years. But our generation of these people will be able to retire and curse us why we didn't do things when it was time. We already know we're making a problem for future pensioners. Who cares about that? Who in the Croatian state, which is the address, Pension Insurance Office. They'll say sorry, come on please. Well, we're here for implementation. We distribute money and there is no such thing as government, there is not one institution that would be considered competent for these issues. When it comes to human rights. Yes, he was right to warn his colleagues. They beat you up, beat you up, rob you, take away their property. Here come the cheaters. There are countless such examples and cases. If we accept the arguments that we will have an attorney as stated in Article 7 which will mainly address issues from pension or social security in a broader sense, and let us drop the fact that the entire set of issues is related to the human, civil rights of the elderly who are at risk. Here, now a month ago was the first gathering of violence against the elderly. The theme is slowly opening. These are the problems that are said to go to formation or to accept such a proposal means to recognise the de facto capitulation of institutions and their inability to do their job to protect people in this country, and also the elderly and the pensioners as prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 57, which has been decoded in this regard, the laws of this country and seems somewhat dubious to me that for a million and 300 000 people we must seek out a special defender and I would be more of a variant, to conclude with this, that we are all fighting together to strengthen institutions, to strengthen control functions. A proposal to establish a special department or specialists within the framework of the Ombudsman, the Advocate General, etc. I would also find it acceptable to deal with only these issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19843	Thank you. Ms. MP and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go. We didn't register it, but here you go, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19844	Just so you don't get it wrong, one quote from fellow Vidovic has been corrected. It's about our coalition agreement not signing it. It's about another coalition agreement and we didn't make coalition agreements in the package. So your remark goes to another address after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19845	Thank you. Madam Vice President Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19846	So let me just briefly refer to this proposal with my discussion. Thinking loudly about why a colleague of Hrelja proposed this initiative. That's a one-sided question. On the other hand, the government gives a negative opinion, holding that it is an unnecessary institution, as there are fewer ideas on this matter and there are quite enough institutions within the framework of state authorities that can solve pensioners' problems. I am not sure at this point that this initiative around the Ombudsman is the best way, but I am sure that this initiative has appeared because at the same time it feels unable to have a quality impact on those existing institutions that have to pumply, even in advance, and then either prevent or deal with problems that are constantly opening up some new ones. We lock one up and the other one comes. It will be difficult and it will be bad if this bill, and it will experience this fate, is rejected and the debate on what needs to be changed and what needs to be corrected is concluded at this rejection of the bill. Just before, counterpart Vidovic pointed to an extremely serious and open problem, which is the problem that awaits us in the future. If the necessary decisions are not made in time now, if there is no possible negative and seriously negative outcome for future pensioners now, regardless of whether they are going to become those in 5 years or 10 years, or even for those that fate awaits in 20 years, then on their backs this generation will have to bear one heavy, difficult responsibility, and even dare to say guilty. Indeed, pension reform is not an initial step, nor further planned steps are taken, the need to allocate additional funds for these purposes is ignored, I will not enter from which sources and how this is not the current problem of the current government. But it'll become some new pensioners tomorrow. We already have 150 such pensioners, yet it is not the fault of the pension reform, but it is the fault of the inconsistencies of the pension reform. Tomorrow, on those 150, it will be another 1,500, and in a very short time, it will be another 30,000 pensioners that will be found in one gap, they will simply not be able to survive with retirement and what is worst, they will feel deceived and depraved, and if we open the debate, if we catch up with solving this problem, and there is one, second or third way out of it, if the government shows greater interest, greater sensitivity to this problem, then we all have a chance. And that's why I'm actually calling for responsibility in this debate. I mean, it's not a crucial question whether we're going to accept this kind of protection of pension rights, or whether we're all going to engage together in what our colleague Vidovic suggested, which is that these institutions are working, but that they don't work for themselves and that everyone doesn't care about their own little, specific problem, but that they have the support of the entire government, or central government policy that needs to know where we're going to run this pension system because this is how we stand, we keep it in place, it's currently holding water, and tomorrow when it starts to leak on all sides, it's going to welcome this country no matter who the government is going to be and who's going to sit in the Assembly at that time. I think that this is an irresponsible approach and I really consider this initiative as an attempt to finally, but seriously and responsibly with relevant indicators, with objective opportunities to tackle it. I know well that the objective of pension reform, I know that those stairs have been skipped, I know that a whole series of steps have been made just to get rid of those old ones, and then the new pensioners, now we've got new, new, new, new, new, new pensioners, and that's not right. We are playing with something which is one of the foundations of the social state and social society and I expect the government to, in addition to the opinions it has given, which is not positive, on the basis of which the law will be rejected to open this debate, to gather everyone around it and I think that it is possible that this is from political issues where it is possible to reach consensus on the Croatian political scene. Much easier than around the health system and my call is, here is my colleague Hrelja, who is the formal proposer of this law, but even more so for the Croatian Government to bring us all together and to finally start solving something that many know is very dangerous, but simply putting problems under the carpet and closing our eyes. I don't agree with that and I'm making my contribution, here's this debate exactly the initiative to make a final decision where we run our pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19847	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19848	The Honorable President and MP Antunovic and MP Vidovic have in any case opened a new topic, which is a subject that has nothing to do with this proposal in a direct way, but it has, indirectly, and I do not mind opening a debate on the social situation of pensioners today in Croatia and their future and it is a real topic that requires special attention, special preparation and then a normal and special debate. But, I stress, the institutions of the system do not do their jobs, they would admit that they are weak, that their weakness by accepting this proposal for a lawyer for the pensioners and the elderly, if they would accept it, or it would not be good if we did not accept this lawyer. That's, that's the story, I'd say no cover. We do not solve any social situation or improve the social status of the pensioners or their future. But in order for it may have come out today, that the legislator came up with a quality analysis of what is not right in the existing institutions and where are the scraps, where are the problems in the existing institutions for pensioners? What are the biggest problems? Can we all influence them together to correct them? Then it would have one quality basis for a more serious debate. It's just the cobwebs. That's why I can't agree, but in any case I support and let them impose themselves as one particular topic of debate on the social situation of the pensioners and their future. It's a real subject, but I don't think this solves anything that we're going to refuse today the Attorney General's Law for the Retired and Older Persons and adopt it, yet we're not solving anything about the existence of the Retired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19849	Answer, Mrs. Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19850	A fellow Kunst may have been right to see the last 10 months through debates in the Parliament. However, we are sitting here for a little longer, which we have stayed in the past term, is also the proposing of this law and many MPs who are really seriously and responsibly considering the issue of the survival and survival of the pension system. Not once, countless times, not flat-out, but very argumentative and using data exactly the state institutions. We pointed out how by shutting down fires for one group of pensioners we're opening a new hole, a new problem on another group of pensioners. Countless times in the last five years in various occasions such as the occasion and this law, we have warned and sought, not politicized, but asked the government to finally see what the government's plans are in relation to setting up, establishing a stable pension system. I think there are solutions, maybe the government will give up, there are such initiatives, give up completely from the other, go back to the pillar of solidarity, and as we continue something that was founded, whether it was calculated, whether it provided more quality pensions for future pensioners tomorrow. It's not about politics, and I say once again the essence of this one, and that's the question I'm assessing that a consensus can be reached in this House, and that's going to be responsible, and that's going to be useful, and that's going to solve the problems of the current government, some of the problems, and not to say how much benefits it's going to bring in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19851	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19852	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Chief, colleagues and colleagues. I am grateful to all who have engaged in this debate because in some way it paints the position of pro and counter to this bill. You know, throughout this legislative procedure, which took place in the Croatian Assembly by committees, I am very pleased with a commendation from the respected professor Marinko Učura, a professor who I highly appreciate, who said that this law is quality and correct, about the need to discuss whether there is an alternative or not, but that it is correct. And I have to tell you that I would recommend that you take another look at this law, because if I had an attorney for pensioners and older people by this law, then it would certainly not have happened to us, see paragraphs 10 to 14, then it certainly wouldn't have happened to us that three categories were left out in compensation that are safe if there were a Constitutional Court decision, they would have the right to do so. People who were alive on the day of law enforcement, people who were retired from 1993 to 98 and then got a job, and were retired again. They were retired at the time and they were damaged and there was no dilemma, but they were left out. So, according to articles 10 to 14 of this law, if this were to work, the Ombudsman would not have happened for the pensioners and the elderly would have the right to react if something had been left out. It wouldn't have happened to us if we had left out new pensioners at the Retirement Act, so not new ones, but the latest ones spoken of by the esteemed vice president, that's those who have the right to retire from II. It stands because they now do not have the right to add to the pension under the current bill, which I think is very unfair in one pension system, at least there should be an allowance for those years in which they did not pay in II. It's a post. So that's why I'm very pleased with this debate and when I can talk about it, I'm sure this law can't solve all the problems, but it's also the fact that we have to make it clear that it's not true that there are institutions, other institutions that protect pensioners. There isn't. There's only legal protection, there's only justice. Let's not say that state institutions are citizens' associations, they're not. The unions are fighting to protect the rights of pensioners but they cannot deal with the problem operationally. I can't solve it. We also cannot say that the programmes of the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity are an alternative to what pensioners need. We highly appreciate what the ministry does in terms of help in the house, in terms of daily centres. It's a European, it's a world trend. This should be supported, this should be developed it is better than building special specialised institutions and homes. Helping a man in his life environment is the most that this society can offer toward the elderly, but let’s not show it as an alternative to what this law is directed at. It is aimed at protecting, protecting rights, functioning of institutions. Now I'm commenting on what was said here in the debate. We must also say, the representatives of the pensioners are sitting in the Governing Council of the Peace Fund, but as always they are in the minority. There are 13 representatives of which are three pensioners, three workers, and seven are representatives of employers and government who are usually always expensive and can be too loud at any time, although I personally argue, and I will always argue that the Croatian Pension Insurance Office is an insurance fund and a pension fund. He's a public institution, but he's not a government fund. Insurance companies from their salaries pay contributions and have the right to manage the fund both as former and current insurance companies and have to be respected more. It's true, it's been said to be entering the arraignment of an attorney general with this law. Yes, but gentlemen and other attorneys were involved in the arraignment of the attorney general and through the other three specialized ones, so the living ones, the ones who functioned, because they were entering the arraignment of the ulterior, so it wasn't like this, things didn't set up like this. You know, and I can agree with my colleague that she has a lot of people with disabilities. You know, with age, we're all more disabled, you know, and it's true that this attorney general's jurisdiction for disabled people could spread a lot, but I think we know what we're talking about here. I have to look back on what the government said, so the government's opinion. The government therefore explains its position by the fact that there is an institution of the attorney general and that the introduction of another special Ombudsman would represent the introduction of an additional institution, which would affect the authority and part-round of the Ombudsman. The same argument could also be brought against the establishment of existing specialised lawyers for gender equality, for children and for persons with disabilities. The only difference is that the special defence attorneys mentioned were founded by the government, formerly and presently, in spite of the warning by the Ombudsman that the prosecutor's inflation would weaken the position of the attorney general and reduce his powers. But then, but also now, by establishing the institution of the Ombudsman for disabled persons, this argument was not respected, perhaps because it was indeed intended to weaken the institution of the public defender, in which it was well managed. The government's argument that free legal aid is provided within the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute so it is not necessary to organise in a specialised ombudsman institution, it is unacceptable. It is clear to everyone that the legal assistance provided by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is not objective and impartial, but is primarily aimed at facilitating the administrative communication of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and parties, and is not aimed at providing advice on how to fully exercise the rights that the insurance company has in the mandatory pension insurance system. The number of administrative disputes before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia against the Croatian Pension Insurance Office's solution is in line with the number of claims adopted, suggests that it is necessary to provide insurance with objective and impartial legal assistance. Gentlemen, we have cases that our men, military doctors in a former military hospital, have a pension calculation as if they were working for the lowest pension. Why? Because the provision in the solution of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute is inaccessible. Don't tell me. There have been relations between these countries since 2001. Well, these funds, it can't be a secret. It cannot be an obstacle for a person, a pensioner, to exercise his rights. We have international relations, there are departments of pension institutions here and in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Canada, which must be co-operated indirectly, cooperation must be established in order for the pensioner to exercise his right. It is true that the number of complaints is reduced by the attorney general for violations of pension rights. However, only reducing complaints does not necessarily mean that the rights of certain categories of persons are less endangered, but may also mean that persons whose pension rights are threatened or injured, lose confidence in the institution of the attorney general. That this may be a reason to reduce the number of complaints and the fact that the last few years have increased the number of complaints from pensioners to NGOs, the Croatian Helsinki Committee, the Citizens' Committee on Human Rights, and the pensioners complain to NGOs and their deputies themselves. The government, on a case-by-case basis, argues that the power to review homes for the accommodation of pensioners and older persons, geriatric wards of hospitals and other institutions, would go beyond the frameworks that could be given to the Ombudsman for pensioners and elderly persons, and that this was governed by other regulations, not to which. A similar authority now has a public defender, and how much of it is served is seen in his annual reports. About the situation in some institutions, mostly privately owned, we have opportunities to learn from the black chronicle of the daily papers. That's why we think the government's argument doesn't stand either. At the amount of resources necessary for the work-based institutions of the Ombudsman for pensioners and older persons, I am willing to speak specifically with the representatives of the Government on behalf of the promoter at any time. There's really going to make big changes. In addition to those arguments, why the Government’s opinion is unambiguous and therefore unacceptable, the Proposer states that, when deciding on this proposal, the arguments set out in the draft law, the assessment of the situation, and in particular the number of pensioners, the diseases they suffer from, the amounts of pensions and the second on which the Government has not declared itself, which are objective and speak in favour of the establishment of this institution. But here, slowly this debate is coming to an end. Of course, I'd appreciate it if this proposal went through, but as things stand, his prospects are low. However, I am very grateful to you on behalf of the promoter in constructive cooperation and with one last appeal. I mean, and I really say this from the heart, so that accepting this proposal would not solve all the problems, but it would certainly be a contribution to increasing the dignity of the pensioners and the elderly, in order to help protect the weaker part of the citizens and contribute to the fight against the exclusion of this great Corps of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19853	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We're going to the Proposed Law on Attorney General for Retired People and Older Persons, first reading P.Z. Number 143. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and HSU. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Ombudsman for pensioners and older persons is not accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by most votes; 76 votes for, 8 abstentions and 31 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19856	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I've been asked to shorten my discussion, so I'm going to try the telegraph lines. In fact, it is known that the case-law in the Republic of Croatia until May of this year, all the money in the current accounts of the citizens in the banks was considered to be savings, not pay, which would sit on the current account, according to the financiers. So the confirmation of this is that even the Minister of Finance's statement in this House when he talked about saving citizens, that the savings amount to so much and so much as billions of dollars in what they enter and the funds, deposits, salaries that are in the current accounts of workers. In May, the SDP club was encouraged by the initiatives of workers and citizens from concrete situations, it came to the attention of the social security problem of workers and proposed this law which is now on the agenda. After that, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, perhaps under the influence of, I believe, under the influence of workers, and not of this law, has prepared its, second draft law, similar to this, and this is now less important and that is not the essence. However, the government has decided on a slightly smaller protection of workers' income than the SDP club suggests. The government has decided to protect one-third of the average salary, i.e. two-thirds is excluded from the average salary that today amounts to about 5,000 kuna and lower wages than the average salary. Of course, you all know that the average net salary, economic and statistical fiction, is usually a worker does not receive an average wage but is higher or lower. When so, this government proposal is about the same as that measure when it decided for social reasons that the electricity price would be determined according to consumption. So whoever spends more regardless of the social map of consumers who can have five or six children and is forced to spend more electricity, he will pay more electricity. That's what's happening now. The same here protects two-thirds of the average salary, regardless of which social card is a worker who receives an average salary. Or let's just say, a worker who has a salary of 5 grand, we go lab example, 5 grand kuna, that's an average salary, he's protected two-thirds of the pay from the commission. He's a member of the family. A worker who has 10 thousand kuna salaries, so double the average net salary, but has four, five children, and if you look at the social picture of his family and this single man, the salary that the government protects is actually irrelevant. Why did the government do that? I suppose the government has made it out to meet large-scale capital banks, because mostly the executions are looking for banks and citizens are mostly in debt to banks. Most citizens are in debt with the banks. So I can't understand that by protecting the interests of the banks, the government ignores citizens of the Republic of Croatia who really have a higher net salary than the average net salary, but have a social situation in the family significantly worse than an individual who only has an average net salary. In such a situation, we have remained in this regard, that the public and you in the Croatian Parliament, we suggest that this is a serious problem. He's a countermeasure of porn politics. Namely, we have decided to protect ourselves, I repeat to protect myself through the average net salary regardless of the social map of the family or the individual concerned. That is why the SDP club stays with this proposal. We believe that this is a minimum in today's conditions and especially when it comes to the financial crisis that is in the world, and the consequence of this crisis and the economic crisis. That we are right and that it is important that all those who enter financial or credit relations or business relations must take care of the believer and that he remains alive is proof that the states are now acting when their banks have come into crisis. Banks are neglecting risky business, risky lending, are in difficulty, so the state is now covering them, and we are not in a position to think at all about banks in this way, all the happiness, but the banks of the "Croatian" are not taking care of our citizens either. They're not taking care of our citizen's social situation, they're acting on the principle of making as much profit as possible, maximizing profits. So they force our citizens to have a slightly higher salary than the average net salary, not to limit the performance. Thus, even under this law, a worker who has a salary of 10 thousand kuna and is not protected by two thirds of his salary, but only up to the amount of the average salary, must conclude with the bank a contract where he will be in a very difficult position. So we return to that, that it is also from the legal point of view of double criteria, unacceptable in Croatian society, each salary is individual, each social situation is individual, each responsibility is individual, and we have decided to try and get a charm, and behind that charm there are very difficult social situations. So please consider actual cases. They may not have as many as before, but it doesn't matter. It is important to know that this law now acts is not fair to those who have bigger families, slightly higher wages, and the Parliament and the law have not protected them from two thirds of their wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19857	Thank you very much. Do the government's representatives want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19858	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the Croatian Democratic Community's club does not support this proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Implementing Law. Indeed, after an analysis of the legislative proposal, and in relation to the executive law which has been discussed in this House and which has come into force, we believe that the proposal itself is already consummated, largely consummated by this law, and in this sense the debate itself and the proposal in that segment can also be assessed without merit. Namely, the provisions of exemption from enforcement, as well as the restriction of enforcement prescribed by this law, have been decorated in a quality way and adopted at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 30 May 2008. The applicant's intensity is that the law provides for exemptions from enforcement in those situations where the perpetrator receives salary on the current account. So that is the basic meaning and basis of the proposals that we find in this bill. However, the law set out above is prescribed or adopted by law to carry out on demand under the current account on which the payees are paid cannot be carried out at amounts which are just excluded from the application. That I don't list them all, so they're taxed in that law. Therefore, all these exceptions to the performance, i.e. the inability to implement, also apply to the claims on the current account on which the perpetrator receives the salary, when we talk about the salary. Therefore, all enforcement procedures and the prescribed exceptions also apply to those situations where receipts are paid through current accounts. In this respect, there is no fear of avoiding the implementation of the means excluded from the exercise, and also in the sense of this exemption is not in the sense of the reasoning of this proposal or the existence of the perpetrators or the existence of members of their families cannot be compromised. However, let me, when I am on behalf of the club, read about this bill and there have already been a few words about this social moment, the social threat and the existence that this proposal, namely the Government's proposal, and this House has adopted this solution and, therefore, the law in Article 16 of that basic law, is a matter of Article 178, which is precisely the best possible instrument for the protection of the socially endangered population because we have actually talked about this institution all the time. If I don't interpret it, let me quote that provision of the law, and we'll all see in the most obvious way what it's really about. Therefore, the debtor may give consent by means of a publicly certified correction to confiscate his salary or other permanent income, except in the part in which the receipt is excluded from the application. And now the most important thing, and that's that newspaper and that's that protection. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. So he would have been even if he had been contracted in a legal sense, so nothing. I am now talking about that legal solution which is written in this proposal and the reasoning of the opinion and the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club that it is indeed in a good way already consumed by this law or by the implementing law which has come into force, thereby discussing the concrete legal institutes which are the subject of this law is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19859	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19860	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Tomljanovic, I believe, has deliberately avoided quoting the provision of Article 149(1), which says that two-thirds of the net salary in the Republic of Croatia has been excluded from the exercise. It's the new law the government has proposed. ... No, but you misquoted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, it remains what I said. The government has proposed, the parliamentary majority has adopted to protect the amount of two-thirds to an average salary. The average salary does not guarantee families with multiple members any social security. That's the meaning of our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19861	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. She's gone. Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19862	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representative of the promoter, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Executive Act of the SDP Representatives' Club proposes that the exemption provisions set out in Article 148 are proposed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. They shall also apply the implementing law in the case where the executioner receives such funds through his current account or savings book which he/she has with the legal person who performs payment operations. The applicant explains that the unique case-law in the Republic of Croatia is treated as the finished money, regardless of the legal basis for these receipts, by any means paid to the current account or savings book. This means that the full remuneration or pension of the perpetrators, even the child's allowance or other income, which should be excluded from the application referred to in Article 148. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Official law on the restriction of enforcement over those assets. Such case-law bypasses the social regulations of those articles. In its opinion of 5 June 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown that the proposal in question does not support it for the reason that the proposed matter is better governed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law adopted on 30 May 2008. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is, in effect, amending Article 149 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The implementing law comes from the principle that, in the case of forced enforcement of wages and other continuous monetary income during the exercise carried out with the consent of the perpetrators from the exercise, the amount necessary for the existence of the perpetrators and which is determined in relation to the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. Such a solution is fairer by my judgment because it stems from the fact that every performer for existence needs the same amount regardless of the amount of his net salary. With respect to the fact that the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law has entered into force and that the matter in question has been regulated in a more acceptable manner than the SDP Representatives' Club's proposal, I am of the opinion that the SDP's proposal should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19863	Thank you. Replica Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19864	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow representative of Grbić first entered the procedure of SDP earlier than the Government proposal and in chronological order for at least twenty days because there are over a dozen regular numbers before the site, so the government could not be called upon to regulate the law before we put it in the procedure. Secondly, what the government has proposed and the majority of parliament has passed as a legal amendment has not solved the problem that we point to with our proposal. So we remain with the government protecting the interests of banks and large capital against the exercise protected two-thirds of the average salary. The average salary is a fiction for many families because they do not live on average but on their salary, so from both legal and social point of view it was necessary to determine why two-thirds of the salary of each worker who enters the bank, and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-30-0.u19865	Thank you. Would you like to see Mr. Light finish? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Executive Act, first reading of P.Z. Number 69. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: The draft law amending and supplementing the Implementing Law is not adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes; 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 39 against.
