ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13432	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This is another law before you in a series of laws relating to the harmonisation of legislation with the acquis of the European Union and similar topics are related to tax relief. The existing Law on the field of special state care had to be brought into line with the legal acquis of the European Union, i.e. by Commission Regulation, by the European Commission of 15 December 2006 and the Treaty on European Community to support "small values". This harmonisation, as well as the other two laws we had previously in this House, must be passed because this makes it possible to negotiate in Chapter 8. Market competition. However, this Law on the Field of Special State Care, which was adopted in 1996, followed by 10 amendments, was adopted before the last two amendments and the clean text of the law. However, in various amendments, there was a wrong numbering of articles and no modification and addition could be made, but a new Law on the field of special state care was to be adopted. When making this new law before you, the existing provisions of the previous law, in line with the legal property of the European Union, have been adopted, certain chapters related to housing but are also extended incentives to cities and municipalities, which you have noticed. The basic issues covered by this law propose and regulate the definition and classification of municipalities and cities and settlements in groups of specific public care areas, housing measures that return or settle into areas of special state care, tax benefits to entrepreneurs in areas of special state care with legal and harmonisation of these tax reliefs with the acquis of the European Union, encouraging measures within the framework of the education and education systems and ensuring additional income to cities and municipalities in areas of special state concern with the basis of tax revenues and compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the provision of income to municipalities and cities that have some territory under their protection system. A group of areas of special state concern. The existing part-round area of special state care, the first two groups affected by direct war action and were occupied in the 1990s and in the third group are municipalities that acquired this right under the procedure of assessing the previous law. The government plans to adopt a regional development strategy and a new Regional Development Act by the end of this year, which will, among other things, specifically establish the level of social economic development based on the value of the development index, which includes gross social income and income per capita, the unemployment rate. Budget... the unit of local administration without adding from the budget of state demographic change and education rates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, and this will determine the status of areas lagging behind in social economic development, this Law did not apply that criterion. Some adjustments have been made in the system and model of housing for PPDS residents, including the donation of the state house and of the defenders' apartments. The new Law took over all those provisions of the old law that proved to be good and gave a great result on the ground, which refers primarily to the housing system that has been developed in part by resolving the issue of housing of young families, for example, who, as their parents' children, have not yet been able to exercise the right to housing care. It is also prescribed to donate state houses and apartments to Croatian defenders, disabled people and families of missing and dead Croatian defenders, as well as to the defenders of HVO, which are the rights so far prescribed by the government in the regulations. This law extends the number of persons who can exercise the right to housing on PPDS which today proved to be the most valuable part of the return and stay laws but also attracts residents to these areas that have been completely devastated and fueled and materially and human. Tax benefits to entrepreneurs on PPDS. We have heard this similarly in the previous two laws; the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, the Law on the City of Vukovar. And this tax relief law is in line with the acquis of the European Union. The EU guidelines provide for exceptional cases where they can be allocated as operational support is intended to overcome regional development problems. Operational support should always be limited time and degressive by value. Thus, in this law, it is proposed for these three areas in the period of 3 times 3 years, 3 years for the PPDS of the first group and 2 times for the 3 years PPDS of the second and third groups. In law, you saw the amount of relief. Since the State aid Act does not apply to agriculture for these activities, a special tax relief regime is envisaged until Croatia enters the European Union. The principle of support for small value support applies to tax reliefs. Small-value support means that in a three-year series of fiscal years, an entrepreneur can no longer provide any more support than EUR 200 000 or, if it is an entrepreneur in the road transport sector, more than EUR 100 000. These ceilings shall apply regardless of the form of support and small value or the objective to be achieved. These types of support are only part of the total aid implemented at the PPDS in order to improve the development of the economy. Other support is implemented through other ministries, and this harmonisation of tax incentives will not significantly affect the overall development of undeveloped areas. I'd like to give you an example of the following. Last year, tax reliefs on the PPDS first to third groups used 806 economic facilities, entities of 191 million 475 thousand 998 kuna. These amendments provide that these 806 economic operators could use a billion 168 thousand in three years, 168 million in 700,000 kunas of benefits, significantly more than triple the amount of these 191s. So they haven't yet had the kind of gain to reach those ceilings that this law provides for. In addition to the regulation of these two areas, it means housing and tax reliefs in law are passed and incentives for the cities and municipalities that are in that area and other than what is before the tax on profits are achieved at the local administration unit remain in that unit of local self-government. There are two other incentive measures. One is an incentive measure in the system of education and education. The law provides for new incentive measures in the system of education and education, primarily through the subsidisation and transport of third and fourth grade students not covered by the existing regulation or as a transitional period, which will be resolved through the Ministry of Science. And through subsidising the stay of children in kindergartens and mangers in local self-government units, which is particularly important because many of them have not even gone to kindergartens and mangers because they did not have the means to, to pay employees in those kindergartens and mangers, and exactly the different measures that have been given in this area so far have come to have young people and there is all the happiness and lots of children we need to find and accommodation in kindergartens. These resources would allow cities and municipalities to invest in the construction of new kindergartens, given the marked lack of such facilities in the area. It also provides for fees for cities, municipalities that have territory in their own areas in a system of protection. Either the nature park or the water-protected area, the law provides for the provision of additional income to cities and municipalities in the area of special state care with the basis of tax revenue and compensation, and the exploitation of mineral raw materials from the revenues that the state has for the benefit of the units of local administration, as well as the provision of income to municipalities and cities that have this strict reservation or park of nature and such. This is the additional revenue of municipalities to cities that have such territory in their territory which otherwise further worsens their business in the local community because they must have higher expenditure on certain infrastructure activities in such areas as protected areas. The necessary means to implement the law: to implement this law in accordance with these measures, it is necessary in the state budget to provide about 680 million kuna in 2009, 658 million in 2010 and since 2011 €644 million. So far, for these needs in the budget, something's quieted down when it comes to money. So far, about 344 million kuna has been provided for these needs in the budget and this law doubles that amount. The adoption of an emergency law was primarily due to this harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. In the end, I believe that this law will contribute to the further recovery of these wars of devastated areas both in economic... It also provides a framework for us to continue but also extend our activities to create conditions for optimal use of development potentials that are unequivocal in these areas that need additional aid from the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All measures taken under these laws have recently begun to produce visible results and should be continued. Accordingly, I would like to ask the honourable advocates for support in the vote of this law. I would also like to ask Mr. President to present an amendment to the Government of Nomotechnical Nature which we have similarly proposed in the previous two laws. For the purposes of Article 24(2), we propose to read: “The amount of the exemption from the payment of the profit tax for those periods referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be determined in accordance with the conditions and criteria laid down in the decision to publish the rules for the support of small value.” The same item is shown here in a better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13433	Thank you. The Competition Protection Agency submitted an opinion to you on the benches. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government's amendment becomes in accordance with Article 160. The Rules of Procedure shall be an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, President of the Committee of the Representatives, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13434	Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. At its 8th session held on 3 July 2008, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on areas of special state care with the Final Proposal for a Law to be sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 20 June 2008, with a proposal to comply with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final draft law as an interested working body. In the opening statement of its representatives, it pointed out that the existing Law on the areas of special state care was adopted in 1996 since it had seen a number of amendments and additions in which the wrong numbering of articles occurred, so it was not possible to make new amendments and additions and therefore came forward to draw up a new Law on areas of special state concern. In addition, the applicant’s representative stated that the law in question regulates the harmonisation of tax reliefs to entrepreneurs in areas of special state concern with the acquis of the European Union, ensuring additional revenues to cities and municipalities in areas of special state care with the basis of tax revenues and compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials from incomes disowned by the State in favour of units of local self-government, as well as ensuring income from the base of compensation to municipalities and cities that have a strict reserve in their territory, national park, nature park and water protection area. The proposaler also pointed out that the law in question regulates and encourages measures within the system of education and education through the subsidisation of the transport of third and fourth-grade pupils, and through subsidisation of the stay of children in kindergartens and nurseryes in areas of special state care. This will also ensure the training of the staff they need and their return as well as the care of more children, giving cities and municipalities the opportunity to invest their resources in building and equipping new kindergartens. Following the preliminary explanation of the applicant's representative, the chairpersons and the committee members supported the proposed incentive measures under the education and education system regulated by the law in question. In the debate, it is pointed out that the incentive measures do not apply to mountainous and mountainous areas, but only to areas of special state concern. But that by September this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will develop a law on regional development covering areas of special interest for the Republic of Croatia to be stimulated by specific measures that will encourage the development of all regions in the Republic of Croatia. It was also pointed out in the debate that the fees paid to cities, i.e. the counties in whose areas the reservation, national park, nature park and water protection area was registered, which local self-government units are required to spend on environmental protection and economic development projects will be calculated according to a specific regulation to be adopted after the entry into force of the law in question. And after the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on areas of special state concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13435	Thank you. Do the other committees want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Before I open the debate, I again ask the representatives and the clubs that at 11.00 a.m. we have a vote to extend the agenda and vote on the closure points of the agenda, so please. So at 11.00 we'll interrupt this ongoing debate and means we'll complete the agenda and vote and then proceed naturally by what we started. I'm opening a debate. It's the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13436	Mr. President, State Secretary, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. I, of course, have to come from this title, and the title of the Law on areas of special state care as I understand it represents one, processing or answering to say about the matter of accelerated development and solving major problems, social issues in a large area of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is a big issue, a big social issue and it is a huge social responsibility to resolve these issues in Croatia and I understand that this law should be a legal framework for this action, for this resolution. Since this is so pretentious both by title and by content, and I, unfortunately, must begin to say that what we have within the content of the law does not correspond to such a great claim from which we start both in real need and in the title of the law. I'll continue to say a few views to which I want to explain why I said this. The first thing I'm going to say is what we have in an explanation and the reasons why this law is being passed. In the opening explanation, it was said that the measures put in place by the law are measures for the first to restore and develop, to eliminate the consequences of war, for faster return of the population, for demographic and economic progress, for the even development of the Republic of Croatia. It's all not only legitimate, but it's all very necessary in the situation above all the developmental and social things that we have now, and we're obliged to pay attention to that and everything that's written is quite in place. On the other hand, it is a large area of the Republic of Croatia which is characterized by social, demographic and economic lagging and, of course, it is not easy to resolve, and we must enter into that to gradually resolve it. In an explanation for the adoption of this law, he writes a few more of the following things in terms of assessing the incomplete return process, an unfavourable age structure in that space, low employment, and then immediately with that high unemployment. Therefore, as measured by economic criteria, measured by socio-social criteria, all the negative consequences have somehow concentrated on this area and are in some way affected above the average by people who live there. Because of this, this is a highly demanding social enterprise that needs political will, which needs serious political projects and I think that it also needs a clear awareness of how much the problem is and what we need to do to get rid of it. I've already said, it should be my view of things that this law that we have on the agenda today logically be a legal framework for this enterprise. Now, what have we got in the law? Now I'm going to take a little bit of statistics out here just doing some kind of "play" quotes, which means it. In all, the law has 35 articles, when I refuse which settlements the law sets into special state care, it is six articles and when I reject transitional and final provisions then we get 24 articles of the law. When I single out how many provisions apply to what stimulation is, and stimulation is everything in a positive sense, it's actually a central thing that we can or must solve these problems. Then you have the next situation. You have a residential care of 13 articles, you have tax breaks 3 articles, you have a transport of students 2 articles, and don't be angry, it seemed to me precisely because I'm unhappy with the overall coverage, it seemed to me that this matter could fit under the title of the housing rule. Of course, I'm a bit of a cartoon now, but I'm actually saying that this is about a big title with such poor content not being able to respond to such a huge social problem that falls under this area of special state concern. Now, let's, uh, third thing, get out of this housing thing, I know you can't get people if you don't solve the housing problem, but you can't just look at it statistically. Living care, both in practice and according to the criteria that we get in this law, actually answers only this question of housing schedules, actually statisticalally. What is the problem that I think is missing and what is the problem that we haven't answered here? There is no guarantee that the statistical inflows of people will give economic potential and speed up the development cycle in that space, and if that is not the case, the stationing of people and the solving of their housing problems does not solve the social problem of this area in the long run, and in this matter and in this place it seems to me that we have to take care of it. Now, I'm going to make one objection in the explanation, and in the introduction of the law, it's up to us, or we want to have equal treatment, and those who are on the way back and those who are in the settlement. I think it's a good thing, but in the follow-up to what's going on in the law, being conditionally called equality is gradually losing and eventually losing. I'm here to advocate a little bit of this story of the return of the people who were in that space. The return of the refugees brings multiple benefits, and here I want to say something that I think is important, and to a large extent is being ignored. When you bring back someone who's in that space, then you get a few of the next positive effects. First, there's a growing number of people, and that's what we need. Secondly, this category has assets and has some kind of development resource, it expands economic activity without major investment, especially in agriculture, which is actually the most important resource there. The third thing, which is kind of a convenience, is to activate cooperatives as a desirable economic form. The fourth thing, less space and the fifth, the cities get a positive life force because they won't have a ring of dust around them, and that's what the danger is. So in all of this, I only want to potential one thing here. You can't, if we look at this problem only statistically and only by numbers to achieve what we need here, and that's a different schedule of social giving and achieving a more rapid development resource. If we looked at it that way for a short time, I think we'd have beneficial effects. What is not in this law, I do not, of course, think that the people who defend it here, the State Secretary and Mrs. Radic and a series of other people who are wrestling with this, are afraid to wrestling without proper social support. What's not here is the next few things. There are no targeted development investments. Right now, to be clear, I know this law can't ensure that, but I'm starting with what's in the title. He's the legal framework for what I stand for. Furthermore, there is no formula to invest in the development of local resources, because only pumping money is not enough. The third thing that seems to be missing here is me. There is no stimulation for the development of desirable economic forms. A stand-alone economy, a cooperative I mentioned earlier. There are forms in this space that can be developed from multiple benefits and with less investment. The fourth thing missing here is not developing expert teams and development programs in cities and municipalities in the area. They have a hundred excuses, but it has to develop and there's no way out without it. There's no way out of permanent developmental lagging. Now there's something that I don't think is properly set up either. There are funds and there are tenders that you can come up with to get money for development projects, but there is one wrong approach. Many municipalities, so many units of local self-government in the area we're talking about, are unable to handle, prepare appropriate documentation to report to a tender from which they can obtain money. The relationship that is now even in the ministries and not the ministry of this bill which is proposed here but also beyond that, we have announced a tender, please report to this relationship and compete on your own. You're on your own. I point out this question, we are socially responsible for the units of local self-government being trained to benefit from this title. The next thing I want to say here, it's this welfare problem. A lot of social assistance is given in these areas. Justified. But we develop a mentality in which young people plan to live their lives on social aid instead of helping them develop and the most common, so that in some way we develop a desire or make people live what they have a profession or at least strength, it turns into a habit to work and to live on it. So far, it's actually stimulating some kind of clientalism, and clientalism whether it's a donation, whether it's about giving social aid, whether it's any form of no return, actually stimulates some kind of parasiteism to say harshly, which in no form will help or actually help solve this problem that's under the title of this law and that in some way shows the claim that we want to do something about it. Because of all this in conclusion, I'd like to, if you will, and I suggest that this law in the category of emergency procedure, because here is P.Z. That E. Just for tax purposes. I'd like this to be the first reading so that after that we can get a law that answers the big questions we're responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13437	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13438	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our presentation on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I note that we will support the adoption of this law. Before us is the proposal for a law on areas of special state concern. Indeed, the existing PPDS Act should be brought into line with the European Union acquis in the tax relief section for entrepreneurs in these areas. The PPDS law was passed in 1996, followed by ten amendments. Although the areas of special state care differ significantly by their geographical features, they all share demographic, social and economic lagging behind other parts of Croatia. In the areas of special state care, less than 680,000 inhabitants live in all three groups. The average age of the population in these areas is 40.4 years, which is more than the average of the Republic of Croatia by 1.1 years. As far as the education of the population in these areas is concerned, it looks like this. Even 56.3% of the population is 15 or older or has only finished primary school or is without school. 5.3% of the population has a college. The social picture of these areas still burdens the unfinished process of returning to the population, the adverse age structure of the population, and high unemployment and low employment. With the consequences of war injuries on economic and infrastructure facilities in these areas, what is particularly more than in other areas affected by the economy in these areas is the lack of funds and interrupted economic ties and connections, i.e. the lack of new networks and connections. The lack of professional and educational people is also a further reason for the failure to recover and lagging behind in development. The revenues of municipalities and cities on PPDS are twice as low as in the rest of Croatia, which is another reason why local self-government units in these areas cannot launch their own development. More and more units of local self-government whose budget is barely enough to cover their own current funding and therefore cannot help their own economy. The areas of special state concern are identified for achieving a more uniform development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, fostering demographic and economic progress, completion of the reconstruction programme, return of the pre-war population and permanent housing. This law will continue to encourage the return and survival of the population who lived on PPDS before the Homeland War and the settlement of citizens of the Republic of Croatia of all occupations, especially those who can contribute to the economic and social development of the area of special state care. This tax relief law complies with the legal acquis of the European Union, it also complies with the guidelines for the National Regional Support 2007-2013 and with the Decision on the publication of rules on regional aid. The EU guidelines also provide for exceptional cases where they can be allocated as operational support is intended to overcome regional development problems. These operational support must always be limited and gradually reduced and should be abolished at the time when regions achieve real equality with richer areas of the European Union. It is justified to have a meaningful existence and to apply tax relief in the observed areas because entrepreneurs in these areas record a steady increased growth in the effects of the use of relief. It is proposed to keep the tax reliefs for a certain period of time, but with a dyspression or a gradual reduction of the current tax relief over an equal three-year period of a maximum of 9 years for the first group of PPDS, or up to a maximum of 6 years for the second and third groups. The current situation in these areas has shown that their faster economic and overall recovery and development of existing incentive measures are not sufficient. The Government therefore proposed additional measures and encouraged the recovery and development of these areas. This new Law on Special State Care regulates the harmonisation of tax relief for PPDS entrepreneurs with the acquis of the European Union, the promotion of demographic recovery and the areas affected by war destruction and persecution of the population during the Homeland War during the first two PPDS groups, as well as the areas of the third group where a marked depopulation is present. Standard housing measures that return and settle on PPDS, and through the rental or donation of state houses or apartments, as well as the allocation of building material or building land for renovation, construction or construction of family houses or more residential buildings to keep the population in these areas. This law also regulates tax advantages for PPDS entrepreneurs in order to attract additional investment in these areas. Ensuring additional revenues to cities and municipalities on the PPDS with the basis of added revenue and fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials from revenues disowned by the State in favour of units of local self-government, as well as the provision of income from the base of compensation to municipalities and cities with a strict reservation of national park, special reservation, nature park and water protection area. What is even regulated by this law, which is certainly commendable, are encouraging measures within the system of education and education, through the subsidisation of the transport of third and fourth grade students not covered by existing regulations, i.e. as a transitional period until 2010-2011 when transport will be fully financed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and through subsidising the stay of children in kindergartens and nurserys. This additional funding will allow cities and municipalities to invest in the construction of new kindergartens, given the marked lack of such facilities in these areas, especially in cities and municipalities that record the increase in the number of children compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia. Since I come from Knin, a city that belongs to another category of PPDS, I must say here that these encouraging measures provided for in this law, and the main subsidisation of third and fourth grade secondary school transport and subsidisation of childcare in kindergartens, will greatly facilitate the urban budget from which we have allocated about 300 thousand kuna annually. The implementation of tax reliefs to PPDS entrepreneurs in Article 24 of this Law reduces the revenue of the budget for the estimated 196,48 million kuna for 2008. Based on the existing legislation, with an increase of 13 estimated on the first group of PPDS and 25% for the other two groups, with a reduction in the amount of the legislation prescribed by 25% and 75% for the third group, respectively. This calculation was made on the basis of data from the Tax Administration on profit and relief for 2005, 2006 and 2007. What merits attention in this law, as well as all praises, is that the tax profit achieved in the PPDS area and in accordance with Article 45. The law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government belongs to the state budget and will be paid to local self-government units in the PPDS areas as aid from the state budget. Those profit taxpayers who carry out the activities of agriculture and fisheries at PPDS and employ more than 5 workers in working terms for an indefinite period of time, with more than 50% of employees staying and staying at PPDS for at least nine months, will pay taxes next to Croatia's entry into the EU. They do not pay profit tax, so those entrepreneurs in the first group pay 25% of the prescribed tax rate in the second group and 75% of the prescribed tax rate in the third group. The return and stay and settlement of the population on PPDS will also be encouraged by housing in one of the following ways: by renting a family home or a state-owned apartment, renting a damaged family home in the state-owned and awarding construction material, by giving public-owned land and building materials for the construction of a family-owned house or by offering building materials for repairing, repairing and upgrading of a family-owned house or apartment, or by building a family-owned house on the property of the applicant, and by offering building land in the state-owned and building material for the construction of a residential unit in a multi-bedroom facility, giving also a family house or apartment in state-owned property. The right to housing under the terms of this law, the housing provided for in Article 8 of point 6 of this Law, can be achieved by the Croatian defenders and members of the families of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, members of the Croatian Defence Council and members of the family of the deathless member of the Croatian Council of Defence citizens of the Republic of Croatia. User who got to use a state-owned apartment under the Law on renting apartments on free territory, etc. Reić's solutions, they're in my area somewhere around 70, and this will certainly be good news for them, so they've been in suspense so far, and this law regulates their solutions. The right set out in Article 8 of this Act can therefore be achieved by a user who has a family home or apartment in co-ownership, whose residential area is less than the prescribed Article 24. The Rehabilitation Act. Based on the requests submitted for the donation of Croatian defenders and defenders of the Croatian Defence Council, the right to donate is estimated to achieve around 3,000 applicants at the average price of a housing facility on the PPDS amounting to 100 thousand kuna. In the very area of the city where I come from, about a thousand requests from Croatian defenders and defenders of the Croatian Defence Council for residential care were filed. Since a series of advances had to be made for donations or renting of family homes or state-owned apartments, I believe that the time has finally come to do so because people in these areas have been staying since 1995. The paper in this law is also that the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials on PPDS, which is the income of the Republic of Croatia, amounts to 50% of the city, i.e. the municipality, and 50% of the county in which exploitation is carried out, and is used for environmental and nature protection and economic development. The decision on the amount of compensation will be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia within 90 days of the date of adoption of this law. The implementation of the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials in favour of local and regional self-government in the section which has so far been the revenue of the state budget is estimated at around 16 million kuna for which budget revenue will be reduced. In the 2008 budget, 344 million kuna was provided for the above purposes. For the implementation of this law, a total of 680 million, 580 thousand for 2009, or 658 million for 2010, and in 2011, a total of 644 million 580 thousand kuna, are required in the state budget. It is evident from all of the above that this government takes care of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular takes care of the area of special state care and thus shows that it aims to develop all parts of the Republic of Croatia evenly. Finally, I use the opportunity, once again to commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Resorn Ministry, on a well-designed law, and to note that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Law on the field of special state care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13439	Thank you. SDP representative club, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the proposal for a Law on areas of special state care has a P.Z.E. code. It means harmonising with European regulations. What's in line here? Tax regulations are in line. But do you know how far one Rakovic, one Slunj, one Barilović, Josipdol, Krnjak are from the European Union? And now the tax conditions in Krnjak are in line with the regulations and tax conditions in Brussels. And Krnjak or Josipdol should profit from it. That's what the government's representatives claim to be. For areas of special state concern, it is worth tax relief. How long have they been worth? Well, they've been worth a long time. How many of these areas have developed in the meantime? A little. What does that mean? This means that all the investments that went into those areas were not enough. And all the reliefs that were worth in these areas were not enough to develop these areas quickly enough and to reach the rest of Croatia in its development, because that is probably the goal, that is, the meaning of the law. And now that we're going to believe that they're going to develop in the next six years in the second and third categories, that's the next 9 in the first category. But it's not 6 or 9, because it gradually reduces the relief every 3 years. So it's not going to get any easier and better in these areas, it's going to get harder every three years. That's what it says in this government's proposal when it comes to profit tax. So, instead of increasing the patient’s therapy, introducing an infusion, oxygen, the government gradually abolishes these reliefs that represent help, active aid. So, in this law, what happened in the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas is happening. We discussed it the other day. When the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas was passed at the time of Racan's government's mandate, the law meant real and great help to the population of those areas. And with that law, it worked. Moving out of the area has been stopped. People stayed there, they could have started some kind of small business activity, because they were relieved, under tax relief, it was worth it. Because they are not the same conditions of business there and in Zagreb. Well, at least that's clear to everyone. Had it not been for this Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, those areas would have remained empty. A few old men would stay there. This is how life is held back, run. And we could have expected it to continue that way. However, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, and here in this Law on the areas of special state care, provides for the abolition of the gradual abolition of these reliefs with the hope that when Croatia enters the European Union, Krnjak will also be at the level of the development of the European Union. Well, he won't. I'm sure he won't. That's the wrong assumption of this government. So that's all done, as we've heard here from the government's representative, under the fib's alignment of tax relief. That's what it's called, a tax relief adjustment. Well, at least tell people what it's about? It is about reducing their tax relief, i.e. completely abolishing them by entering Croatia into the European Union. Well, at least call it your real name, so tell them, dear people, you've got a lot of relief now, but you won't have it. Every three years they'll be smaller and after six or nine years you won't have them at all. Tell them people know what's waiting for them. So if someone happens to be crazy enough to go into some kind of business activity in areas of special state concern, they know that in the first category, they're gonna pay a full profit tax in nine years, so they know that. Let's not deceive people and tell them that something is harmonized in their interest. We're still hearing from HDZ representatives here. The government promises the Law on Regional Development, and now it should be settled in this Regional Development Act. But well, the government always promises something, it's the government's job to promise. Where's our law? What's it gonna say in that law? What will this law mean for these people living in areas of special public concern? It's a mystery, we don't know yet, but we should believe that all these problems will be solved in this famous Regional Development Act. How do you live in areas of special state concern? Look, in Croatia, after the last parliamentary elections, there is no good living anywhere. And in areas of special state concern, life is particularly difficult. Unfinished return, the old population, as the government here says, low unemployment and high unemployment as if it weren't the same, tautology clean. Who works there anyway? Those who don't work in the state service find it hard to work anywhere. What could possibly lead people into that area or keep them there while they're already there? Well, better conditions of self-inflictedness, bigger profits, because that's the only thing that guarantees greater security, and that's exactly what's being restricted. The small marble was created here when I said that, in all of Croatia, after the last elections, there is no good living anywhere and especially in areas of public concern. But here, I will quote Prime Minister Sanader, his statement of April 24th, which he said at the Price Monitoring Committee: "It is important that people are fed up and energy prices are available to everyone.". That was April of the month, late April. His words are no longer valid today. Food prices have gone wild throughout Croatia and in areas of special state concern. The edible oil was then 9 kuna and today it's 16. Energy is no longer available to all as Prime Minister Sanader said. They'll pick up the gas after the gas prices go, electricity prices go to the sky. So, people are obviously underprivileged by the activity of this government. Not the poor, but the naked. I don't know what brings them the next winter with that price of energy, with that price of food. Maybe hunger and freezing. It is therefore difficult to live in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and how it is only then to live in these areas of special state concern. There is a need for development policy and this should be the content of government action, development policy. The SDP had, outlined its development policy of four times four, four regions, in every four industries, in every four strong entities. The HDZ has also outlined its development policy. She was three times seven. 7% of gross growth, development, 7% unemployment and 7 major projects, which are likely to be the first to replace INA and MOL shares. Of all the three weeks left, there was only 7% inflation. That 7% inflation eats all that 4.5% development. We've got a back-up again. And that applies to people in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split. And how much is it worth to those who live in areas of special care. So this isn't a good approach, this isn't a good approach for SDP. This is one make-up, this is one laxative, and this is under the synchronization company of Krnjak and Brussels. Like the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, it's not a good approach, because it's gonna get people out of there. Why would they stay there? Not that he won't. He won't be able to stay. Even in these areas, so people won't run away because there'll be people on someone, on this government, but they won't be able to live there. If we remove these reliefs, as the government suggests. Therefore, a good approach would be completely different. Why didn't the government come out right away with that famous law of theirs that promises for the fall? Well, she had plenty of time. So this government wants to join the European Union in the last term and in this term, it is now five, six years. Well, she had time to get ready, she knows this is gonna come on the agenda. Well, if we have to adjust taxes, then why didn't we come up with another solution? Why didn't the government present him today? So how can we vote now to phase out the relief and we don't know what these people are going to offer to stay and how they're going to stay when they don't know what's waiting for them? If they believe that three times seven and only 7% of inflation and then it's hard to call them to some faith. So we in the SDP think this is the wrong approach, a shallow approach. We'll coordinate what we have to coordinate because that's what Europe is asking us to do and we haven't found a quality solution for these people, and each of them has a name and a last name, each of them lives somewhere, something has to eat, they have to eat tomorrow, the day after, they have to get warmed up. We don't see that solution in this law. Here, this is about the SDP's attitude towards this Government proposal for a law on areas of special state care in which we see neither concern nor concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13441	Thank you. Nine rectifications of incorrect allegations. First Madam Representative, Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13442	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to correct Mr. Stazic's allegations that the reliefs are not good. On the contrary. In line with the fiscal support impact analyses, it was established that there was a reasonable and meaningful existence and the application of tax relief in areas of special state concern, as it is evident that entrepreneurs recorded the constant and increased growth of the effects of the use of these aids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13443	Second correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13444	Thank you very much. Well, here's a fellow Stazic, as usual, based on the lies and how far I get. It is incorrect "This law removes the privileges of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is incorrect because these privileges have been replaced by other laws and that fellow Stazic is following the work of this government then he would see that a special Ministry of Regional Development has been established which will substitute for these reliefs and bring them into line with the European Union because these and these could not be burdened. So it's not true that it eliminates them but only transforms them and harmonizes them with those that will be sustainable. Stasic's reliefs were not sustainable, and it is fortunate that voters have recognized it. And other inaccuracies remain only 7% of inflation. That's not true. The GDP growth remained by 4 and a half percent. The growth index remained by 5%, the unemployment reduction remained for the new 30,000 this year. There is a reduction in debt and all that will be organised in the future by the Government so that these areas can live in quality. The only thing I agree with him and that's true. I won't fix it. Don't cheat on people, but not the government, but Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13445	Third Amendment Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A wrong colleague said tax relief is being lifted. This is about coordination but only from 2010 to 2017. During this period of course we have time to pass the Rural Development Act which will therefore be adopted in 2008. Two years before the alignment even starts. So don't deceive the Croatian public. And as for good life, I know that the SDP does not live well after the previous parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13447	Fourth Amendment, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13448	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament in a series of incorrect allegations I will only correct this one that speaks of not living well after the last elections in Croatia. Well, it's just statistics that say that from 380 thousand unemployed we've reduced to 215 grand. And in all other indicators of development from road, municipal infrastructure, from building schools, halls and everything else that seems to be in the Republic of Croatia, surely citizens live better. The salary increase and the return of the 5% government officials that you've abolished, you think they've lived better then, or now? And I'd like to say in the end that this kind of acting and demagogue act as you step forward, you're certainly not going to fool the citizens who feel like they're living today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13449	Fifth Amendment Mr. Representative Tomislav Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13450	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. So in a series of also incorrect allegations, I will correct only one fellow Stazic who said that those who do not work in the state service do not work anywhere. It is not therefore up to the Government to create new jobs, i.e. to build large factories such as at a time of communism rather than create favourable conditions and to provide favourable tax reliefs for investors to come to these areas which this Government is doing right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13451	Next up is Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13452	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct Mr. Stazic's false claim. And he's tied to his, like this. He says when we passed the mountain-mounted law in 2001, we decided to move out. We've solved all the demographic problems. It's completely incorrect. The law, when passed in 2001, only allowed local communities to do project documentation. He couldn't stop because the space I came from, the Gorski Kotar, he turned back in the '70s, in the '70s. Since then, the number of inhabitants of this area has dropped from 50,000 to today to 25. We will only now as far as I see this law because you can hardly expect it, in other countries the benefits show that it is impossible to develop the area in this way. I expect that through the issue of sustainable development through 3 ministries, first of all regional development and then others, Croatian forests will give this importance to these areas so that it will not be one benefit and this tax relief. They certainly can't attract and develop this space as you claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13453	Next Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13454	Mr. Vice-President, my colleague Stazic said that this law and the Law on mountainous areas would move those areas. Today, these areas live solely because today infrastructure is as a premise to the economy and this demographic restoration is done precisely in the newer era after the Homeland War. It is true that someone else has displaced those areas, and these are fellow Stazić who you as a political party have inherited. My Vrgorac lives today. The emigration ended thanks to the politics of the Croatian Democratic Community, entrepreneurs such as Pivci, Krah and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13455	Next correction Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13456	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would correct even though Mr. Stazic did say many incorrect allegations today, I will correct only one that is truly exact. They are called in their speech all the time in the carlovack County, a place in carlovakia county. I think I can talk about it properly. And I'll just say about the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area that you brought in, but in 2003, you were part of it, and a large part of the Carlovina County got kicked out of that area and there were no milk premiums and you did it at the end of your term and applied after a year. So the HDZ government inherited it and the Ministry of Agriculture corrected it two years ago and it brought progress and livestock and agriculture in the Carlovakia County. So don't talk about the wrong facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13457	And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. The final correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13458	So here's a fellow Stazic bombing us every day with demagogue-losing reasons there for his own. And a whole series of incorrect allegations, besides others, is that the areas are empty from special state concerns thanks to this law which is absolutely not true. Yeah, most of these areas were emptied back in the '90s because the state service job could only get similar and everyone else moved out of Australia and so on. That's one thing. Secondly, to live worse after these choices is certainly not true. You need to take a look. Hundreds of thousands of Croats went to games. 80,000 new cars. 30,000 a year for new employees. I wish that was happening in your day. Maybe, maybe we wouldn't be losers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13459	Club of representatives of HSS Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13460	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we could hear a lot from the predecessors about the area of special public concern. But this area certainly deserves to be spoken of with special attention for a number of reasons. A number of analyses, numerous gatherings spoke about the price paid for the creation of the Croatian state. We're also talking about that human part but certainly that material part that we're talking about here today. We know the extent of the damage caused by war casualties. And I have to say right away that much richer countries than Croatia could hardly bring that space to the level at which we want it to come, which is to come to the level of the average of the Republic of Croatia. And I'm sure it'll be a long time before we get to that level and the question is, will that space come to that level at all? 12 years have passed since the law was passed. Those who live in or near those areas during these 12 years can bear witness to everything that has happened to them, and certainly we can say that the shifts are made in that residential area on the return of people to their homes, in the restoration of houses, and that in that part we can commend for the great effort made and made, and in order for man to return to his home and live there he must live on something. Of course, he has to eat. Today's situation shows us that these spaces are lagging behind the average of the Republic of Croatia and that is far behind. Unemployment is the largest in Croatia in those areas. Looking from the space I come from, the Vukovar-Srijem County is 30%, about 30% is unemployment in the area of the county, and the space we're talking about is even bigger. And it's absolutely certain that what we're talking about gives us the right to make additional efforts to try to improve this part. Looking at the average salary of 30% and 40% of the salary is lower than the average of the salary in the Republic of Croatia. We all know that, and that's perfectly clear to us, and if we see that the wages are so low, then we ask ourselves how people live in those places. And if we look at Vukovar, for example, belongs to the most expensive cities in Croatia, then what Mr. Stazic said about how they live. Imagine how people in Vukovar live, if they live hard people in Zagreb. Then they're probably in Vukovar wondering if they'll be waiting tomorrow. That's our reality if we're gonna look that way. So, it's hard to live. It's perfectly clear to all of us. It will be difficult to live even better if we do not make efforts to create the infrastructure that is being done, but also to create the potential that is primarily important. People are back, people live there, because this is about 15% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is not some negligible number. That's a big number, and I'm sure tomorrow that number will be greater than this 15%. Looking at what people live on today then we can see that they are predicating certain pensions, institutions that are related to the state, funding through it, and what is most important in all of this and what needs to be the most important thing, and that's the driver of creating certain potentials to be drawn from the base itself. If there are no jobs, safe jobs then there will be no safe development of these areas. Therefore, through this law that goes along certain progress will certainly be seen, but the question is whether it is enough and whether it will really open the path that we all want, and the way is for better and better people to live. If I tell you just one piece of information that those kids that go to school from that space every fifth, and even now they say every eight just comes back. The rest of them stay, they don't come back. It is devastating for the Croatian state and it is devastating for those areas because they say the state is as rich as its space and its citizens are rich. I want this space that we're talking about tomorrow to be richer and we want to try it soon through this period that we've been talking about and try to get these people back on track. If we don't do it, I think we're gonna make a big mistake and we're sure as hell gonna take a step back. Because this area is located along the border. We have to say it, too. Most of this space is borderline whether or not with Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether or not with Serbia and sure that these areas must be given special status and especially must be taken care of by the state. Looking through investment and what is proposed, namely about 680 million kuna will be invested annually on various bases on this space. It's certainly big money, and it'll also be said to be small money. He will solve certain problems and he will certainly help in one part of the development. First of all, we're talking about education itself, which means schooling children. Speaking only of the infrastructure that is being restored to end the infrastructure. Looking through tax breaks we'll get some space, but I'd like a man who has money today or tomorrow says I'm going to invest his money in that space for a reason because there's an interest. Because you're looking at the interest today. Love is one thing, interest is another, and we can get there out of love, but someone out of interest won't come if it's not there. Thus, it is clear, and if we allow a person to have an interest, then we will certainly enable others to benefit from that interest. In that direction we simply have to go, because the current situation is telling us, I'm going to paint it like when you run 100 meters then someone's going from the start, and someone's going from 30 to 40 meters and we're asking them to come to the goal the same or maybe even get this one faster. I'm afraid we're simply not in one great situation, and I want to believe as a great optimist that through this bill, it's absolutely certain that these areas will develop over the next period and come as much to that level as we want here. The Croatian Peasant Party's representative club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13461	Thank you. And the IDS Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13462	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So this first sentence in this Proposal for a Law on Areas of Special State Care literally states: “The existing Law on Areas of Specific State Care needs to be brought into line with the gains of the European Union in the part relating to tax relief to entrepreneurs in the field of special state care.” Why reduce certain rights to those who are weakest, these weakest areas? Come on, what's certainly good in this law is that these areas don't touch in that sense, so that now some city or some community is abolished. In this way, in Istria, this status of the area of special state care retains one Grožnjan, one Oprtalj, or Lanisce. I would expect, as well as the vast majority probably here that the European Union should, for example, be in those areas. that new reliefs, not that the European Union is now seeking to reduce, or eliminate, individual reliefs. Maybe no one's stronger, I'm not going to say critic, but I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I've got to say, I think that sometimes Mr Bozanić, when he talks about serving the European Union, is more specifically, when we turn the European Union into a pandan for our failures in 100% law when he mentions it. In the last, say, a month we have passed, I dare say a few unfavourable laws, just referring to the European Union. For example. The Vukovar Act, then the Law on the Mountains, and then we passed the Free Zones Act, was always the European Union asking us to do so. And now we're also making this bad solution for areas of special state concern. And what can I do for you, for example? We say about the one... about the ban on Czechs to bring more than 1 kg of food to Croatia, which is why there will now be about 100 thousand of those who would otherwise come to the Croatian Adriatic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If Mr Bozanic meant those applications, then he was absolutely right. The implementation of these tax reliefs from this reasoning we see, to entrepreneurs means 196,48 kuna more or so 196 kuna less in the 2008 state budget. Otherwise, some 680 million kunas should be provided for these areas annually. That's about 100, let's say 100 million euros. And for housing in areas of special state care, it is necessary to provide 337 million kuna per year for the cost of connections to the energy network of housing for about 2500 housing units 60 million kuna, for incentive measures within the system of education and education 36 million kuna, then for incentive measures within the system of education and education co-financing in favour of local self-government of children's kindergarten programs around 80 million kuna, for fees for a strict reserve of around 74.6 million kuna, for various regional and development projects 57.7 million kuna, for small capital aid to cities and municipalities in the area of special care about 10.5 million kuna, etc. It means 658 million kuna. It is clear that one who gets a job in this area, especially if we make sure that it is a company in that area, will be able to achieve a certain small profit and an additional one to hire, and it will certainly benefit the population. However, I also suggest that it should not be forgotten, let's say in these areas of special state concern in the County of Istria, specifically on one Grožnjan, on one Oprtalj, on one Laniste. These ends I doubt that by these grounds that I've mentioned anything in the last, I don't know, 10 years and I said, 100 million euros a year for various purposes. I believe the exchange will be more fair in the future. For example, one Lannister, there I agree with those who said his population did not begin to decline in the 1990s, it happened right after II. World War I, the '50s, '60s, when a 3500 number fell somewhere on 4 hundred people. And now it's an ageing population, the basic problem is how to keep these people in those areas. If we do not help these people, life will soon, say, in one such environment, right along the border with Slovenia, simply die. And for that, everyone and those who run Lanisce and those who run the county of Istria would be responsible and clearly those who have a mandate at the state level would be responsible. In the meantime, in these environments in all cities, villages, settlements, asvalt has been withdrawn, water is now withdrawn, but it simply can't be everything, life is something else, maintenance of that system and with one million or two million kunas, how much, these mean budgets, it's hardly possible. What is certainly interesting here is this Article 10(2), which literally states that the right to care for the living means, among other things, members of the Croatian Council of Defence, and members of the family of the death-sufficient member of the Croatian Defence Council, the citizen of the Republic of Croatia, are those who do not own any other habitable residential property in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, or if they have not sold it, donated it in any other way after 8 October 1991, provided they use a state-owned apartment or family house and reside in it and are registered as their customers at the ministry. It's good, come on, we can talk about HVO here now, but do we in one such way perhaps, indirectly, unwittingly encourage emigration from Bosnia and Herzegovina? I almost dare say that in 10 years, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be without Croats. I.e., the number of 700 thousand people of Croatian nationality living there in '91. It's more than halved today, and I'm afraid in 10 years, that figure can be reduced to no more than 100 grand. So I would be far happier if these people were helped to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 16, meaning, paragraph 1 here on page 13 states that persons who, according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, have submitted a request for housing and benefit from an apartment or house owned by the Republic of Croatia in the area of special state care may be entitled to donate under the provisions of this Act, subject to the conditions of giving up other housing requirements under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Now, who says, for example? that Croatia is not also a social state. None of the MPs got anything like that, journalists, defenders, I don't know, farmers did, the MPs didn't, so no one should call the Parliament too much, but what I think should solve the statuses and some other categories of citizens in this country who haven't received anything from the state like that. craftsmen who have business premises in urban, or state-owned areas. On page 10 of Article 10, we also talk about protected tenants when it comes to defenders. I would also appeal here that the same criteria as will apply to protected defence contractors are applied to these other protected tenants, namely, civilians. Let's get rid of the gentlemen and these people, let's not treat them like that, so I may be as arrogant as the Jews in '36. in Germany, let's not do this to these people, these protected tenants, let's let them buy their apartments in which they've been living since '48. or fifty-fifty years or sixty-six, and some, and the owners, clearly, let's settle these apartments out of the budget, clearly. Maybe someone will say it's not fair either, but it's probably the least of it right now. As for Article 23 on page 15, I think it should simply be deleted because here it is talking about reducing certain tax reliefs that entrepreneurs at the moment, who reside and have company headquarters in those areas. The same thing is with this Article 24, what I certainly welcome, is Article 28 on page 17 that the ministry will also compensate for the local self-government spending of children in kindergartens or mangers of 25% of the cost for the first group area, 20% of the second group, 15% of this third group, etc., etc. All in all, the clear law has some good solutions, perhaps even more good than bad ones, but I think the European Union would give up these restrictions that we are going to impose on these areas now that someone in a competent ministry or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would try to explain to those people in Brussels, Strasbourg, Luxembourg, which is actually the area here. A few MPs before me, perhaps the most direct Mr. Gajica spoke of unemployment in those areas. Well, that unemployment is not the case when we talk about one Melanieist, Oprtlje, Grožnjana in Istria, there are no unemployed. There were other chances in the '50s, '60s. Or early in the '90s, but the burden of operating these, say, units in the interior of Istria may be even bigger than in some others. They are a small number of inhabitants, a large territory, it is a mountain-mounted area and it is extremely expensive to organize life on them, and therefore I ask the state not to neglect or forget these areas, although it is clear to me that those areas that were directly affected by the war, by evicting afterwards, by destroying them because of unemployment, have extremely difficult economic and social problems. What it means must be a bit, and right in that part of the law is the most missing and bad, means how to run the employment. Without it, there will simply be no happiness for these areas, and there must be no selection on a national basis, it should be encouraged to return, but this return and rise and the economic base without employment will not be clear. Therefore, it is not necessary to reduce the conditions for the employer, and these conditions need to be increased, clearly cannot in 2008, it should be understandable for everyone to move the economy, they can and must and will be able to only entrepreneurs. So these people need to be motivated, let's not demoted, hire everyone in the state service is hardly possible, it's hardly possible to solve everyone's status through retirement because, in the long run, gentlemen can't be one perspective policy. Today I would even say that if someone is employed in the public service in these areas, there is one hectare or he may even live better than in a big city, Pula, Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Zagreb. Not because they can go across the border, shop in a cheaper Serbia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I will once again say what we will all agree on. It is not even the biggest problem in them as much as in this second generation that should remain behind them, and we have heard just before that those of eight children who are going to school or in Osijek or in Zagreb, or somewhere else, come back and just above those young people who should return to that area, we must not neglect those areas and we must understand that the best social policy is full-time, that the best economic and development policy is full-time and that the best policy for the areas of special state care is full-time policy and in this direction should go this law, and unfortunately this law deals with everyone else, and not with what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13463	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 10 and 54, it's past 10 minutes' notice on this point. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13464	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cain spoke long and long and it is difficult to correct everything, but he stated that 100,000 tourists from the Czech Republic will come to Croatia less for food regulations. This is simply not true because there are already more Czech tourists in Croatia than there were last year, and certainly some will not come for the Vinjets introduced in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13465	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13466	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, it is incorrect, I would say irresponsiblely and casually that the Croatian Parliament has recently passed a number of unfavourable laws under pressure from the European Union. This is incorrect because none of the laws we passed were unfavourable for Croatian citizens, and moreover, it is in all respects favourable for the whole society. Secondly, a colleague of our own has been determined to accept the harmonisation of our legislation with the European legislation in order to join the European Union. So that's our commitment. If you are as IDS against entering the European Union, then say it loud and clear. If we all want to enter the European Union clearly that our obligation is to bring our legislation into line, and certainly that, as far as this law is concerned, by passing the Rural Development Act in the 9th month, that we will absolutely encourage the development of all parts, so all rural areas, and that absolutely no one will be lost, the more it will be for Croatian citizens and this harmonisation of laws and, of course, new laws. It is therefore completely incorrect and irresponsible to claim that we are passing unfavourable laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13467	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr Tomislav Culjak. Here you go. Wretch, excuse me, it says here "Snatcher."
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13468	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here is counterpart Cain, in his presentation, said in one sentence that by providing members of the Croatian Council of Defense, we might in this way encourage the emigration of Croats from BiH. I would say that we are not encouraging, but these people have moved to the territory of the Republic of Croatia for reasons that have been expelled and their property in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area has been destroyed, but we BiH Croats are helping them to finally take care of themselves and stay in these areas because for various reasons they cannot return to their centuries-old hearths.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13469	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13470	Thank you, Mr. President. The same quote my colleague Vrdoljak corrected. I would like to thank my colleague Caina because it is always good to stress how important it is to worry about the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina because they are really right, you were halved there. And there are trends exactly what you said. However, I would only like to correct one small segment, add to your correction, which is that, primarily, responsibility for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina's home state, and in this case, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is a protectorate and an international community. Therefore, of course Croatia's support and it is not controversial, it is permanent, but must be in a certain way consistent with the home state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which should be of first-class interest and priority to the Croats, therefore its own people, and the International Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13471	Thank you. We'll suspend the debate on this agenda point temporarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13472	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the debate on the final draft law on areas of special state concern. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13473	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, a couple of fellow MPs. Well, surely this Law on Areas of Special State Care is very important. Although listening to the debates of representatives of different parties, one gets the impression that we are talking about two different laws. The fact is that areas of special state concern have a common feature, it is important that development lagging behind other parts of Croatia. But it is also certain that the crucial impact of war destruction and the powerful social and economic consequences of the occupation is also crucial. The economic structure of these areas is based mainly on small entrepreneurship, it is family entrepreneurship and family crafts. It's rarer and less based on medium and large enterprises. Such an economic structure is most often focused on a local market that has little purchasing power. The development prospects are not so, not so minimal in local markets because of their fragmentation and financial weaknesses. For such small crafts, it would be necessary to perform on the wider markets of Croatia but also outside our country for which an active role of economic associations such as the Chamber of Commerce, crafts chamber, various entrepreneurship associations, etc. is needed. All the way to the more active role of our embassy. Local administrations and self-government should play a far more active role in creating conditions for faster development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship through incentives and stimulating the establishment of entrepreneurship zones or small economy areas. By strengthening the partnership relations between local administrations and self-government with local entrepreneurship, which is a tendency in all developed countries. The positive initiative is currently also the Ministry of Regional Development of Forestry and Water Economy, based on a public call called for the application of projects for the allocation of gifts, which runs until 31 July of this year under the programme of social and economic recovery projects for areas of special state concern. As far as the demographic image of the working population of these areas is concerned, it is not brighter. Because it's about the elderly and the uneducated population. Some indicators suggest that there are only 3% of the unemployed with higher or higher education, meaning higher education, and cca. 56.3% of the elderly, who are over 15 years of age, are without school or with a finished primary school. The unemployment rate is significantly higher than in developed areas of Croatia, approximately 35 to 40%, and this unemployment is sustainable and structural. It's not just the workforce, it's the manager's and the owner's staff. Due to relatively high age and relatively low educational structure of managerial and ownership staff, it would be necessary to foresee training of these personnel through various educational programmes. The professionally prepared and qualified structure of the directors or owners of these companies is quite modest, prevailing persons with medium professional training, cca. 60%, with a higher 26%, the qualified workforce somewhere is 9% and only 5% with high professional equipment. Obviously, the problem is that about three quarters of these directors, owners of these companies working on it, are in this area persons with medium professional training, who are not able to organise a competitive and dynamic economy in this area. The Law on specific matters of State care regulates two groups of tax reliefs, tax reliefs for citizens who settle in these areas and other groups are tax reliefs for companies carrying out activities in areas of special care and for craftsmen of the corporate taxpayer who are resident in those areas. Tax exemptions for citizens are prescribed in the form of a permanent exemption from the payment of real estate tax when it comes to buying, inheriting or other means of obtaining property located in the area of special public care. If there were no such release then those citizens who buy or otherwise acquire real estate would pay 5% of the real estate tax. Of course, for citizens who acquire real estate in areas of special state concern. It also applies to general exemptions which are otherwise prescribed by the special Act on Taxation of Real Estate Transport. For example, for the first inheritance order, tax, etc. is not paid. This tax exemption is conditional and obliges the citizen who used it not to alienate the property within 10 years and to actually stay in the area of special state care in those 10 years. Such measures seek to encourage the settlement and survival of the population in the area. I note that these are not the only tax reliefs prescribed for the population in areas of special state care, a significant basis is also prescribed by the Income Procession Act, in the form of the right to increased personal deduction, as an untaxable part of income, which is all to help socialisation and quality of life in the field of special state care. As regards tax exemptions for companies and craftsmen, they are prescribed in the form of a reduction in the profit tax rate. Otherwise, for other entrepreneurs, the profit tax rate is 20%. Commercial companies and craftsmen in the field of special state care in the three-year period all mean by 2010, they have no obligation to pay profit tax, first group or to pay a reduced rate of the second and third groups at all. For example. For the second group of tax rates, it will be only 5% in the three-year period and 15% for the third group, while entrepreneurs in other parts of Croatia pay a 20% profit tax. The exception is agriculture and fisheries for which strict European Union rules do not allow tax relief, and the relief for these activities will be in force only until we become a member of the European Union. In the post-2010 period, reliefs are gradually reduced until 2017 when business conditions with other parts of Croatia are evened. And these reliefs are not unconditional, and the condition is linked to the obligation to hire a certain number of workers. We therefore aim to motivate entrepreneurs to open up businesses and crafts in areas of special state care, to hire workers from this area. The state gives up part of the profit tax to encourage them to do so. It is expected that the funds made by the entrepreneur will invest in the expansion of business, the purchase of equipment, and others which indirectly enables the creation of new jobs. We know that jobs and jobs are the condition of the existence of the population, and thus the condition of economic recovery. As a result, future State intervention programmes need to include more significantly strengthening human capacities through controlled educational programmes and strengthening the entrepreneurship climate through educational staff, not just through monetary and credit incentives programmes. So, the combination of strengthening educational potential and monetary incentives. To train workers and entrepreneurs with such programmes as measures to co-finance employment and subsidies, i.e. The specific benefits of employers for the employment of unemployed will not in itself create the desired economic and social results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13474	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13475	Thank you very much. Here's just one short replica of Mr. Kunst. He well noted that in this law, we are gradually abolishing certain tax reliefs, but on the other hand he said that in areas of special state care there are special reliefs for our citizens, such as 5% of real estate taxes. I'll remind Mr. Kunst that the coalition government introduced this relief in 2003, so the fact is that we are now taking down certain reliefs, but don't justify that there are some reliefs that we brought into effect 7.8 years ago. So that's one thing that's been existing for 7.8 years, and it's unnecessary to compromise it with something that helps these people. So we're going in this law one step lower or a ladder lower than we had in the previous law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13476	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13477	Thank you very much for actually giving me the opportunity to say that there is actually no such dramatic reduction in these tax reliefs as your fellow representative, Mr. Stazic, has been dramaticly dramatically dramatically dramatically reducing. But the goal should be logical, and I believe that you will agree with this that the goal should be to create conditions that these areas will not be forever on state aid, but to create such conditions that these areas can function normally, that some production begins there, that new employment begins there, that these areas develop as all other areas in this country. So nothing means that you will have certain incentives to help these areas if you do not create conditions for these areas to function independently and continue to develop economically. That's the point and that's exactly what this law is all about. So he introduced a transitional period of assistance, but also the creation of this economic development in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13478	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13479	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I support the adoption of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, which the Croatian Government has delivered to the Parliament for discussion and adoption, because it is a law that aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Union, in a small part, to the harmonisation of tax incentives for entrepreneurs in the field of special state care, and in the most part continues to contribute to achieving a more uniform development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for this law lays down areas for which the Republic of Croatia is particularly concerned, as well as encouraging measures for their restoration and development, and in order to eliminate the consequences of the war and the faster return of the population living in those areas until the Homeland War, but also to promote demographic recovery and economic progress. I was involved in the debate because I came from Brod-Posavina County, which is territorially established in two cities and 26 municipalities, of which 16 units of local self-government have the status of the area of special state care. Namely, there are known casualties in the Homeland War, occupied part of the territory of Brod-Posavina County so that according to the provisions of the laws and groups are two municipalities in the first group. It is the Municipality of Dragalić and Stara Gradiška, two in the second group Okucani and Gornji Bogićevci and as many as 12 municipalities in the third group of areas of special state care and this is the municipality of Bedrina, Cernik, Garcin, Gundinci, Kakar, Oprisavac, Oriovac, Podklavlje, Sikirevci, Slavonski Šamac, Velika Kopanica and Vrbje. And it's not unusual for these four that were classified in the first two groups were occupied during the Homeland War, but concerns about these 12 in the third group that unfortunately meet the requirements of the law, which is economic development, the criteria of structural difficulties and demographic criteria. Well, speaking of demographic criteria, it should be said that the Ship-Posavina County is, according to the 2001 regulation, 176 thousand inhabitants, of which 51 thousand 754 inhabitants live in special care or 29.3%, which is a little less than 1/3 of the total population of the county. For comparisons, the town of Slavonski Brod had 64 thousand inhabitants according to the list in 2001 and was the size of 6th and 7th respectively with Velika Gorica the size of the city in Croatia. However, slightly better data from the Croatian Employment Office in Slavonski Brod on 31 May 2008 show that out of the total registered 12 thousand 693 unemployed persons in the area of Brod-Posavina County, 3 thousand 988 or almost 1/4 of the total unemployed live in the area of special state care in Brod-Posavina County. And today someone in the debate here said that this law, the law that was passed in 1996, did not achieve its goal because those municipalities had developed very little. There's no colleague who said it here today, but I don't agree with that. The municipalities have not only fulfilled their role, they may have developed a little bit, but what is the meaning of this law, these municipalities have survived with these measures and the law on which we are discussing today, until the adoption of the Regional Development Act, which will continue to retain support measures for such areas if we want to talk about the even development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, we will have to face these conditions as well. In my debate, for example in Brod-Posavina County, I would like to highlight two measures and to commend them for the proposal for this law, which is partly about the demographic recovery of these areas as well as the encouraging measures within the framework of education and education. So here, of the 16 municipalities mentioned in the area of Brod-Posavina County that enjoy the status of areas of special state care, 11 of them have primary school, the other 5 have four-grade or eight-grade schools, the area clear, which total attendance by 4 thousand 270 students of a total of 17 thousand 700 founding students in Brod-Posavina County. Unfortunately, with the tendency of falling students as well as throughout the county, as well as that information that shows us at the level of the entire country. About five hundred high school students from the area covering these 16 municipalities travel to their schools in Slavonski Brod and Nova Gradiška. I therefore particularly welcome in the draft law the envisaged financing of third and fourth grade secondary schools in the field of special state care because, not only helps the families of these students, but indirectly facilitates, let's say specifically the Ship-Posavina County, which, by its largely poor budget, co-financed the transport of secondary school students in its area. This measure is clearly temporary and is in force until 2010/2011. when the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports will fully take over the financing of the transportation of secondary school students. When we speak in the area of demographic recovery, help local self-government units in pre-school education and education in the area of Brod-Posavina County in these 16 municipalities, only 3 of them, Okućani, Oriovac and Gornji Bogičevci have in their field a branch of pre-school education in the composition of city pre-school institutions whose funding has a large amount of goodwill and understanding for the obligations that local self-government units have towards pre-school children have major problems with chronic lack of funds anyway. What needs to be highlighted is the almost 100% coverage of children through preschool programmes for which all units of local self-government show responsibility in the implementation and implementation of child preparation during the 6th year of life who do not attend regular programmes in kindergartens, and we have heard why they do not attend, there is simply no such institutions. I therefore welcome and commend the proposal for this law in Article 28 of the envisaged State aid to co-finance the cost of the stay of children in kindergartens or mangers in the field of special state care. The provision of this article will take effect on 1 January 2009, and I am sure that the mayors of the municipality will be pleased and grateful to the state for this assistance. Otherwise, I consider it encouraging for other chiefs to set up a children’s kindergarten branch in their area, knowing that the state will help them to subsidise the stay of children in kindergartens. In addition to this as well as any other envisaged measures to continue to assist the state units of local self-government in the status of the area of special state care, and in order to create conditions for the even development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, I will support the proposal of this law, with the desire to achieve the objectives of this law, we have as many commissioners who want to get out of this status as possible, so more of them than those who want to gain this status. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13480	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I do not agree with the allegations by counterpart Susana Bilić Vardic that an economic recovery has been made in municipalities. Namely, it observes a rather narrow area of Brod-Posavina County and not even the 5th constituency, where for example. Caglin municipality, which is also located in the 5th constituency, has a decline in population and one, not to say one economic grey. The drop in population from 8000 2001 to 3 and a half thousand residents last year in Caglin municipality. Not to mention the municipalities here in Banovina, Lica, Dalmatian Zagora, etc. In addition, I believe that given that the municipalities have so advanced economically, that some would also be given their GDP and remain and removed from the list of areas of special state concern, but this is not happening, here neither today is it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13482	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13483	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I don't know why you've been replicating me now because in my presentation, I've kept strict data from Brod-Posavina County, but as my colleague comes from Slavonski Brod from where I come from, I can't say that I know the issue of Brod-Posavina County, the only thing I'm from another party that supports the development of the whole of Croatia, and in my part I'm fighting for the development of the Brod-Posavina County, and not the whole of Slavonia, and now I see that he's crossed all over Croatia, and then a dear colleague often knows that we don't see the forest or the forest tree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13484	Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13485	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have received the Final Proposal of the Law on the Areas of Special State Care, which is followed by an urgent procedure and this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, in particular the part relating to tax relief to entrepreneurs in areas of special state care. The Law on Special State Care was passed in 1996 and has suffered 10 amendments so far, and in 2000, in only one year, the law has changed three times. I don't need to, and I don't want to further analyze why in nine years it's changed 10 times, mostly thanks to the law in these areas, such a municipal infrastructure has been built that it was built by chance 30-40 years ago, probably with these areas there would be much less departures. What is common to almost all areas in the area of special state care is demographic, social and economic lagging with other parts of the Republic of Croatia, low education structure of the population and high unemployment. However, when the situation is better analysed and analysed in these areas, there are large differences among them from demographic waste on one side to even overcrowding some of the areas on the other side. I'm going to take an example of the space that I come from and that I know very well. In the area of the old Vrlika municipality lived before the Homeland War, 8,000 inhabitants. Here I think of the space of Vrlika, the newly formed municipalities of Kijevo and Civilians. Today, less than 4,000 inhabitants live in the area, so the number is more than halved. And despite all the measures and laws that have produced great results in the construction of infrastructure, it is not clear that in the near future something important will change in the return of the population and life in those areas. Why? Because on the one hand, we have good laws that encourage infrastructure building, and on the other hand we do not have a strategy for developing certain areas. In a serious system, it can't happen that in the process of rebuilding and returning the population to those areas, I am primarily thinking about this area from which I come, the Ministry of Police, or the Minister of 2000, abolishes the police station. At that time, dear friends in areas of special state care were abolished at dozens of police stations and what the consequences of such a policy were. Several return families from Vrlika moved to nearby cities, depending on where the policeman got the job. Those who stayed living in Vrlica each day travel to work 38 kilometers away, so to the distant Sinj. And what's key here and what's really important, and that's the question of the lives of citizens in those areas, the question of the security of citizens and their property, because the nearest cop is 40 kilometers away. So whether these citizens have the right to protection and security 24 hours a day as well as citizens in other areas of the Republic of Croatia or are now sentenced to half-year-old actions, mostly traffic police who see more as repression than real security concerns, because I say that actions happen every few months, there is no systematic concern that would do so. If we add that there are no county outposts in the area, there is no court, no catastra, no public notary, citizens for every confirmation in the county offices should travel almost 100 kilometers a day, I wonder if it is not time to change it, that the country for which people in these areas have given the most, so who have been exiled for five years, who have paid a great price in the Homeland War that their country finally comes to them to be the service of citizens in those areas. I am sure that receiving civil servants in the county facilities in those areas, not in nearby cities 40 kilometers away, would in a certain way be in the development service of these areas because every family that comes to that area is actually rich and repairing that and such a bad demographic picture. And I would also like to point out that it might be necessary to consider reviving these areas so that border police or military may be placed in them, so it is better to have the army in areas along the border than to be on the coast. These are just some thoughts that the state should, through its institutions and services, encourage the development of these parts. I therefore propose that the Ministry of Regional Development develop an analysis of the situation for each area in particular and development programmes, or that it assigns units of local self-government in this area to do so on their own, because they would probably know best what they need for development in this area. If this space continues with the policy it is currently working on, which is mostly the number of objects, I'm afraid that soon in these areas we're going to cut off the parent offices, because the number of objects is getting smaller every day. If something important doesn't change I say there won't be any need for the police, there won't be any violations, no one will do them anyway. Otherwise I'm the law and all these laws, I'm thinking it's very good, but I'm saying that you need to think about real life in these areas. So no one slows down the fact now we have an example. The highway was built. It has brought a lot of good to all Croatia in the integration, in the development of tourism, but the fact and economy in the coast, but remains the fact that one large part of the area has just arrived on this highway, by building the highway remains isolated. For example, from Split to Zagreb, the connection is nothing, all the bus lines have gone on the highway, these people can no longer communicate. Someone who works in Split and nearby towns from Split, Sinj, Knin, so they do not have to travel their cars. Perhaps here you should consider subsidising transport lines, several times from Split to Zagreb, as is the case on the islands, which is very well solved today. I think the state is also thus stimulating the island's survival and development. Here's what would have been my remarks. So, I'm going to support this law, it's great, but living in those areas is much more complex and I think we should make more effort to bring life back in full sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13486	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I took the floor to support the proposal of the Law on Areas of Special State Care, as I read it as an effort by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to bring these spaces closer to EU standards as soon as possible, so that they no longer need to encourage it in the future, and especially because they need help because they suffer in war circumstances. The law on areas of special state care is not only important because of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the area of state aid, i.e. tax relief, but is even more important because of the settlement of the legislative problem which has been dealt with several times by 2003 through amendments and additions to the '96 basic law. A year, which apparently without a new law couldn't have been satisfactorily solved. In the areas of special state care, 680 thousand Croatian citizens live, indicating the importance of the law in question regarding living conditions, as much as 15% of the population of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, demographic and economic development effects are seen primarily through the implementation of the reconstruction and housing programmes. The areas of special state concern for the current legislation were classified in three groups, the third of which did not have its exact definition, but depended on the case-to-case evidence of what status. This bill taxes all areas that deserve third group status, thus removing the problem for the future and ensuring continuity until the creation of a new Regional Organization Act. I believe that the list of municipalities of cities that, according to economic structural and demographic criteria, fall within the group is sufficiently reflected. I do not think it is necessary to specify in more detail all the encouraging measures that can be read from certain articles of the draft law, but I would just point out that the state implementation of this law, namely the willingness to make special public care in part of the Republic of Croatia's territory cost a little more than 680 million kuna in the state budget, and not significantly less in the years to come. It is important to stress that all the envisaged incentive measures are not only suitable for individuals in terms of a number of different housing modes, as well as the resolution of social infrastructure and tax relief, but also enables additional income to local and regional self-government units by giving them part of the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and since 01 January 2009. Since the application of the existing Law on the Fields of Special State Care has proved to be a positive result, I am sure that the future of these developmental spaces will be even better based on the proposal for a new law. After all, faith itself in the better tomorrow brings really better tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13488	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13489	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A few general information to make it easier to figure out what I'm talking about. Coming from the western Slavonia area, from the Pakrac and Lipika cities, more precisely as a representative and mayor of Pakrac. Surely when we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Areas of Special State Care, I will make a special impression on the role of the people of Lipik and Pakrac. The role of the town of Pakrac and Lipik and all Croatian defenders who came to our battlefield until the military redistribution action "Blash", when the entire area was freed in the Homeland War and in the restoration of our cities spiritually and materially after the end of the Homeland War. According to the Croatian Encyclopedia, the Homeland War began in 01. Three. In 1991, by attacking Serb troops to support the Yugoslav People's Army, at a police station in the town of Pakrac. They were killed in the area of Pakrac and Lipik in the ora of Croatian peoples and Croatian countries and civilians, and defenders, and Pakracans or Lipicans, and Požezani, Virovits, Varazdins, especially Bjelovarcans, defenders who came from all over Croatia. Tens and hundreds of young and old people, women and men, killed and wartime military disabled. A famous painting on the entire battlefield in Croatia. It should be said that after the end of the Homeland War in the Lipik and Pacrac cities, there were no residential buildings, no economic facilities, no kindergartens, no schools, no hospitals that were damaged by destructive enemy missiles. In the past 13 years, a reconstruction has taken place throughout the area of the former Western Slavonian front, whose units of local self-government have the status of special state care. As much as we may not be satisfied with the speed of restoration, I can also confirm that we did not get the status of the area of special state care, that there would be no life in this area today. After all, people have returned to these areas in significant numbers. The houses are 95% restored, from the state budget, from donor funds. The economy is being restored to a significant support of the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, an increase in the number of employees, and a decrease in the continued number of unemployed. The communal infrastructure, while the old city and sons were restored, water and sewerage, gas pipeline and roads, where they did not even exist before the Homeland War. Social infrastructure, kindergarten and elementary school, secondary school, hospital continue to be renovated and modernised through the programme of the Republic of Croatia's resolution ministries and the modest city budget. And our budgets would look completely different if the state left us with far greater tax resources than in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. With the completion of several major projects in Western Slavonia, primarily in the most suffering part of the towns of Pakrac and Lipik, along with this law over the next few years these cities would reach a significant level of development and standards and should no longer be areas of special state concern. What are these projects? In the first place demining, mine suspected areas, agricultural areas and forests. Furthermore, the modernisation of the state road Pakrac – Lipik – Novska, i.e. The speedier exit of 20km of these areas on the highway, which the prime minister announced at the government's meeting in Požega, although activities in Croatian roads are going quite slowly. Then there was the final sale of a majority package owned by the state of Zrc Lipik company, which was also announced at the end of the last year but has not yet been realised. And finally solving the problem of water supplying the entire area, building... Šummetlica, a project that is being prepared in Croatian waters and we hope to start work soon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, all this is not enough and it is good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has continued its active policy from the previous four-year period and during this term and is proposing a new Bill on areas of special state care that will certainly improve new life conditions projects throughout the area of special state care in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to establishing the areas of cities and municipalities entering the areas of special state care, this law defines measures that promote demographic and economic progress through the implementation of the reconstruction, return and housing programmes, which are introduced by law in force with the existing measures. First of all, tax reliefs are coordinated to entrepreneurs. In addition, additional revenues are provided to cities and municipalities based on tax revenues and compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, all revenues practically denied by the state in favour of local self-government units. Also, measures are being taken to provide housing for the population returning or settling into these areas through the assignment of houses, apartments, building land and building materials with special emphasis on young couples. Then, the law regulates also incentive measures within the system of education and education by subsidising the transport of third and fourth-grade secondary school students, means again a programme for young people and subsidising the stay of children in kindergartens, mangers that will allow new employment in kindergartens, mangers, the care of a larger number of children, and investment in the construction and equipment of new kindergartens. We who come from the field of special state care know that even these measures are unfortunately not enough, but that one major step towards war on the affected areas and other areas of the special state care of the Republic of Croatia and raise our hand to this law. And you other colleagues and colleagues, I hope that we have convinced our reasoned and sincere debates, and that we will together vote the Law on areas of special state concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13490	Thank you. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13491	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Special State Care provides for encouraging measures for areas in which the Republic of Croatia is particularly concerned in order to eliminate the consequences of war, speed up the return of the population, encourage demographic and economic progress and achieve a more balanced development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Regardless of the significant differences in the area of special state care, they share demographic, social, economic lagging behind other parts of Croatia and an extremely high unemployment rate. In the past 12 years, significant developments have been made in the development and construction of municipal infrastructure, the return of the population, the restoration and development of the economy, especially in the restoration and construction of the war on damaged housing. As a successful example of these results that have been achieved in the restoration, we can highlight the area from which I come Osijek-Baranja County, especially Baranja where hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas have been invested in the development of municipal infrastructure, the economy, but what is most significant over 90% of the exiles have returned to that area and of course lives there. These areas deserve and need increased national care in order to develop rapidly, as municipalities and cities in the areas of special state care are generally twice as low as in other parts of Croatia cannot be development generators and the trend of lagging behind will only increase further. In accordance with the law of the European Union, it is ensured through different measures and fosters the continued concern of the state for these areas and their even development with other parts of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with EU regulations and laws. The law regulates tax reliefs and benefits for entrepreneurs in the field of special state care, define and classify cities and municipalities in groups of areas of special care, provide additional income to cities, municipalities based on tax revenues, and fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and revenues from the base of compensation to municipalities and cities that have a national park, nature park, a special reserve and water protection area. By law, municipalities and cities shall be provided with means to subsidise the transport of pupils as a transitional solution by the school year 2010/2011. when the transport will be fully financed by the Ministry of Science and ensures subsidisation of stay in kindergartens, cisterns which will enable the construction of new kindergartens and the provision of more children in these areas. Through housing measures such as leases or donations of state houses and apartments, as well as the allocation of building material or building land for renovation, construction or construction of family houses, the return of the population to those areas is ensured, as well as the retention of the existing population. It is evident from all of this that, with increased national care, further accelerated development of the area of special state care will be ensured and I will therefore, of course, support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13492	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13493	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Law on Areas of Special State Care lays down areas for which the Republic of Croatia particularly cares and encouraging measures for their restoration and development and in order to eliminate the consequences of war, the rapid return of the population who lived in those areas before the Homeland War, the promotion of demographic and economic progress and the achievement of a more uniform development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia. Although areas of special state concern differ significantly by their geographical features, they share demographic, social and economic lagging behind other parts of Croatia. Areas of special state concern shall be determined in three groups. This is the first and second group under the circumstances resulting from the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, and the third group has been established according to the three criteria we have already heard. The list of units of local self-government in the third group has not been extended for the time being since the government plans to adopt a new Regional Development Act by the end of the year and in particular define all municipalities and cities lagging behind in other areas. The new law took over all those provisions of the old law that proved to be good and gave results on the ground. This primarily refers to a housing system that has been developed in part by addressing the issue of the housing of young families, which, for example, as children with their parents, have been to a restoration solution and have so far been unable to exercise the right to care for housing. The donation of state houses, apartments to Croatian defenders, disabled persons, families of missing and dead Croatian defenders, as well as defenders of the HVO, which are the rights so far prescribed by the government in regulations that had their limited duration. In this law, donations are made possible without restrictions within the time limits of submission of applications. In addition to this fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the area of special state care, which is the income of the Republic of Croatia is paid in 50% of the city or municipality of 50% of the county. The local self-government unit in the areas of special state care which have a strict reservation, national park, special reservation and nature park and water protection area are entitled to cash compensation and a decision on the amount of compensation will be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has taken over the financing of the transport of secondary school pupils from first and second grade and since 2010, the financing of transport for all students of this law will provide for means for the transport of third and fourth grade students in the next two years. Furthermore, depending on the group in which the unit of local self-government is located, the ministry will compensate for the cost of the stay of children in kindergartens or mangers, resulting in additional income from local self-government and can be used either to build kindergartens or to free the parents of the additional part of the cost. Today, in our discussions, we heard a lot of black thoughts or thoughts about the area of special public concern. Here I will give you the information today from the Zadar List: export of goods to cities and municipalities of Zadar County. Among the 6 units of local self-government, which are the largest exporters of 3, are precisely from the field of special state concern. The first is the Poličnik, which belongs to the area of special state care with 62 million. The second one's Zadar, 52. The third is Benkovac, 41, and the last one's a $12 million Obrovec. So it's not as black as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13494	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13495	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here are my colleagues today, in the debate, they said more or less everything about this good law that corrects all the irregularities that have arisen and the difficulties that have occurred since 2000, 2002 and beyond. So since his adoption in 1996, he's been put in law today. A number of examples have been cited, helping the state to help areas of special state concern. This government is certainly working on a sustainable development programme and how we will keep all those co-financed, which we help if we do not build energy, communal, road infrastructure, unless we organise good education, kindergartens and business-innovation centres, so that we can simply school the necessary fit for industrial areas or small economy areas in those areas. It is clear that the 2002 tax reliefs that were for the 3 groups were a circus of 18 million and 405 thousand kuna, and in 2005, 87 million 537 were increased by 70 million. In this law as head of the municipality of Occupied while I was since 2000 and in 2005 that I should have written it myself, I certainly would not have written it more favourably for all these incentives, for housing, permanent housing, for municipal infrastructure and construction because we need to know if the ministry or funds help us build municipal and social infrastructure so that we can get 100% funding or 80% in areas of special state care while in other areas is 40 or 50% of each, 50% of the others. So as far as the Law on Areas of Special State Care is concerned, I think it has given its purpose before and this is now that it will only improve in our areas and I hope that in 3, 4 or 5 years most local self-government units will need less help from the state. And I look forward to this law. As a man who left Okucan 3 years ago, he moved me to Nova Gradiška for being saddened to be the city of Nova Gradiška city which was in the area which means on the first line of defense of Western Slavonia. The city, which is its all-communal, means economic resources, gave human potential to defend the Western Slavonia of the Republic of Croatia is simply abandoned and is not as an area of special state concern. The border of the town of Nova Gradiška from the west of the border with the municipality of Dragalic, which is the first group of areas of special state concern. The northern side of the town of Nova Gradiška is the municipality of Cernik. On the south side is the Sava River and the eastern part of the municipalities of Vova. On all sides we are dangerous and unfortunately we are not able or on the list of the first or third groups of areas of special state concern. Namely three settlements that were on the first line of defense, Kovačevac, Brvča, Ljupina where, for example, in Kovačevac one leg of the defender was in Kovačevac the second in Mašičica. The machines are in the first group and the town of Nova Gradiška is not. In this area believe or not when those three, these three villages or settlements are 60% of the municipality's catastra of the town of Nova Gradiška and on it, and there are only 12% of the population of the town of Nova Gradiška. Well, here are the gentlemen of the State Secretary and Proposers who may still have room for the final vote that these three, that these three areas mean Kovačevac, Brvca and Ljupina municipalities, the catastrian municipalities mean the city of Nova Gradiška to be included in one of the categories of areas of special state, areas of special state concern. I know it wasn't your fault. The former mayor whom we have replaced and regretted that we did not do so before simply did not have the will to be an area of special national interest and these people in this area, it is up to you to watch 60% of the catastra of a municipality and 12% of the population. People just move out. Until yesterday, the trenches were in those villages. Today, unfortunately, they have no plumbing or sewers or social homes, and so on and so forth. I certainly didn't want to write the amendment. If there is room you will certainly classify it. If there is no I will certainly vote for this law because I know that 680 thousand inhabitants because I have been, I have lived for many years since the establishment of municipalities, municipalities, I have lived there and lived in a time when it is special, an area of special state care when we chiefs called them an area of special state care for which no one cares. This law and laws before this government certainly showed concern, good care, quality but that it should be improved for these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13496	Thank you. A few replicas. First Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13497	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. In your debate, you touched the free zones and the economic aspect of this law that we are discussing today. What I really have to say is that his economic aspect is relatively narrow and very small. The only thing he refers to and refers to is the tax degression of the tax burden rate of profits for entrepreneurs and tax charge, and that means, in some ways, let's say in line with the harmonisation in the process of accession to the European Union. So Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. But that's not how it's supposed to be. What's now a fact and what's de facto now is that in Croatia we have in areas of special state care only two free zones. One is a free zone of Obrovac which is not operational and the other is a free zone of Vukovar which has 20% business entities and only 120 employees. Near Karlovac is a business zone of Ribrik with 7 business entities and 17 employees. Therefore, it is definitely not sufficiently done in terms of economic revitalisation of the area of special state concern and this should be a priority. Unfortunately, we have not yet received the regional development strategy of Croatia in the parliamentary procedure. What I still have to say is that in this way, and the fact is and this is also seen from these indicators in the areas of special state care where the subsidy, i.e. where special reliefs were used to start an economy which is still weak and which is underdeveloped, and this is also the data on low employment, i.e. large unemployment in this area. In this way, we and those entrepreneurs who came into the economic zone will be demoted, i.e. motivate them to come out of it, and in the process of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union it is possible to define and implement certain things, and that is why there is no need for support in agriculture and fisheries to be abolished with the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union. So it could have gone a little wider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13498	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13499	My dear colleague, I fully agree that it is not enough. That's why this law is passed that will improve this part, but I said I lived and ran a local administration at a time when I didn't get one kuna from the state budget. There is no development of the economy and no sustainable development of the economy unless the units of local self-government do energy, communal, road infrastructure and prepare education. This area without the Government of the Republic of Croatia or without funds and ministries cannot work, and it is shown at least I speak in places where I come from, that in the past 4 years, the government has made a great step and a great leap, and I hope that in the next 4 years it will be rightly done.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13500	Second replica, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13501	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary, secretary of state, sir and gentlemen of the MPs. Well, Mr. Representative was talking about tax reliefs that were increased and he listed the amounts here. However, when we look at which they are, in some way, translated into these groups of third groups, which are based on criteria, which are economic, structural and demographical, there is a question that these are economic and tax benefits for, I am talking about Slavonia and Baranja, about 40% of the place in that third group is precisely from Slavonia and Baranja, and they are represented. If a basic question is asked, what is the main production in the economy of these areas? This is primarily agriculture, and we are now coming to Article 23, which gives those who are engaged in agriculture and fisheries the privilege of paying 75% of the prescribed tax rate on profits. It seems so immaterial to me, because we know what our agriculture is and what it can be. At the same time, these areas I consider to have exactly agriculture as a basis, and there should be given certain advantages, i.e. that primarily the production produced there is purchased at the right prices. Today, we have a situation where before harvest we buy wheat at half the price if we imported 250 euros, we see that today this price is offered to farmers in half the price. I think it would be a greater privilege than these tax rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13502	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I had a replica of my colleague Biljic's exposure. In fact, if I were to talk about the Housewives, then a colleague from the SDP on this side of my right mentioned that the economy is actually the cornerstone of the development of these areas of special state concern and that's what we can't actually see in the Houses today. We have an area, we have it declared an area, or community of special state care, but the economy is still standing on very, very low branches and there is no incentive. Furthermore, it was said that it was Nova Gradiška, and I would say he forgot the Slavonski Brod. In fact, the cities on the first line were defensive and if I didn't say they were destroyed, I wouldn't want to compare it to Vukovar, because we can't, but very, very similar. Unfortunately, fellow dear local leaders who led the county and the city have not taken a step towards the central government, so here we are today, both Brod and Gradiška. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13504	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13505	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. In any case, I will support the bill's proposal because I think it brings good new incentive measures and certainly makes life easier for local self-government units in areas of special state concern. But I will certainly be the happiest of the moment when this law will no longer be needed, that is, when in Croatia all areas will be equally developed to the satisfaction of all our citizens. It is certain that many problems have been accumulated in areas of special state concern, and despite the fact that it may seem to have been a long time and that recovery should have already been carried out. What I see as the greatest disadvantage, i.e. the biggest shortfall, is the question of people who are not yet in these areas, so there are still very few people there, and all those young people who eventually finish school or are preparing for some extra higher education are simply looking for a reason to leave these areas. They can therefore agree with colleagues who have actually touched the very essence, which means that it is necessary in these areas as well as in all other areas, and in particular here I mean rural space, to provide adequate living conditions that will be similar to those in the city, and that means that it is necessary to build a municipal infrastructure and roads and waterways and gas and sewerage and, of course, carry out electricity where it has not been implemented. I can say, I come from Sisak-Moslavina County where 2/3 of the Croatian electricity is produced, and I am proud, here and I have acted recently as deputy mayor, which is precisely where we have succeeded in the joint efforts of both the state and the units of the local administration and, of course, the county carried out almost electrification until the end. I know this may sound strange today at this time that someone has no electricity, but believe me, there were families and children who wrote their homework next to the candle, especially in the courtyard area, and it certainly wasn't pleasant to see, and it wasn't easy to solve. Of course, it is necessary to thank all those who are through different kinds of help and, of course, international aids, to make these areas more revitalized, but surely we still cannot be fully satisfied with the situation that we have there. But I would also like to point out some positive examples, and I think it's important to say this because it gets the impression sometimes in the public that areas of special state concern are actually areas that, at least so knows how to write in the paper, don't worry about the government, away from the heart and that these are areas that are not any of the authorities interesting. I disagree because, for example, my county has shown one synergy, and it has been said by some other colleagues that just in the area of agriculture the greatest progress and concrete results can be seen when we talk about areas of special state care is an example of Banovina where in the last 10 years of joint action and state and county and municipalities and cities have been raised 230 hectares of plantations of plums and 300 hectares of plantations of other fruit species, so there are people who, not only have taken incentive measures, but have used these encouraging measures in the right way. A large part of them are increasingly starting to deal with eco-agricultural and eco tourism because these are areas that are just suitable for this type of production, and I can say that, here we are, the county that paid first in the country for environmental producers, they will get a certificate that goes into the work book, and the school takes place in the area of special state care in Mali Gorica in Petrinja. I can say positive examples of people who lived in the city of Zagreb, who had good jobs, who worked in banks and in places where they had a lot of good income that had returned or moved back to areas of special state care where they developed agricultural business and where they are very successful, they are very successful, they are actually helping to develop the whole area because some Andraseks in the area of Petrinja now have so many orders for cheese, they are sent to Dubrovnik and Split and all over Croatia, and that means they need more milk, and they cannot produce it themselves, but they are buying them from other producers. So the whole one chain closes that way. Also, the issue of the Centre for plums and pitomic chestnuts opened in the Banovina area is extremely important both as a professional institution and as a support to producers where there has also been a single institution that will certainly contribute to the development of the whole region. What represents a major problem is the issue of unprocessed agricultural land. We will continue to discuss the new Agricultural Land Act where new mechanisms and new measures are introduced. I have to say that definitely such unprocessed agricultural land that is privately owned, and people do not live in that area for reasons why, either they do not want to live or do not think it is their home, they will have to offer this land to rent or sell to the municipality, and then there will be one fund that will be created to round up agricultural land for those who want to deal with agriculture because it has been proven that one new job in agriculture opens up two additional jobs and precisely in areas of special state care agriculture and tourism can be quite good income branches. That there is an interest in talking and data that, here at the Ministry of Tourism exactly the largest number of projects in tourism arrived from Sisak-Moslavina County where the average for other counties was 20, 30 projects, from Sisak-Moslavina County 86 projects. This means that if there is a coordinated joint action, if all levels want to participate in encouraging good projects, the result will certainly not go away. But I also have to warn about the malversions that occur on the ground when it comes to agricultural land, where just the people who worked under mines have decided to live in the area of special state care of different games and games have lost agricultural land, cannot now build farms and increase their production and educate their children because they have expressed their willingness to stay there, while some of our very famous tycoons have obtained this agricultural land. I hope that such cases will no longer be because it is a debilitative measure for those who want to stay in the country, for those who want to stay and rebuild the war destroyed areas. I also appeal from this place to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to help those cooperatives working on the ground, whether it be a production cooperative, agricultural cooperatives or cooperatives of another type because we realized that there are those who hunt in the blurry, I could say so, raising different kinds of incentives, subsidies, especially from the state, have quasi cooperatives and then do nothing on the ground. There are cooperatives that work, such a cooperative, for example, Vinska Banovina in Glina, who has signed very prestigious contracts with large producers who have gathered all agricultural producers on that field and we are now trying to solve the issue of a farm in Maja next to Glina that just one association that is manufactured, which has a market, which knows what it does, is assigned such a single farm that has millions and millions of kuna invested in, and today stands abandoned and many enter, exit and steal parts and carry roof and doors and all that is there. Therefore, there must certainly be will from all levels to revitalise such areas. The measures proposed by this Act on Areas of Specific State Care, which also relate to the exploitation of mineral raw materials and incomes remaining to units of local administration of these revenues, as well as to the provision of income from the basic compensation to municipalities and cities that have a strict national park reserve in their territory, nature park, are measures that are good. Such measures should certainly be welcomed as well as measures to help municipalities and cities and counties organise transportation for third and fourth grade students, as we know that the Ministry of Science pays for the transport of pupils for first and second grade secondary schools. Here is the fact that I am running out of time, so I am supporting this law, and I believe that soon it will come time when we will not have to talk about areas of special state concern, when every corner of our country will be interesting and pleasant for life and when space throughout the Republic of Croatia will be able to rise with good economic growth and with people who want to live here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13506	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13507	Thank you very much. counterpart Petir claimed to support this law because of what new measures will take to help Croatian citizens live as high as possible and return to these areas and have a easier life. What seems to me from this law is that we are reducing these encouraging measures, i.e. by denying the right to return taxes, i.e. not paying taxes to companies that have opened up business in this area, we are in a way creating an environment that is more commercially negative, i.e. smaller companies will open new jobs in this area. So here I would beg if he could just tell me what the new measures were, which have not been applied so far. It seems to me that a lot of these measures have been applied more or less before. What is in line with European legislation goes to the detriment of citizens in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13508	Replica reply, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13509	Well, my colleague Maras, I was speaking in the context of my debate as I see in fact the revitalization of the area of special state care through which development branches. I don't think that the areas of special state care should be where the heavy industry and the big companies that you're going to make it easier for you to open 300 jobs and destroy and pollute the environment and the whole area and eventually not have so many people to employ. So in these areas, conditions should be created, and this is ensured not only by this law but by another package of laws that we have passed or are now passing in a way that encourages agricultural production, to encourage tourism, to give incentives to small craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. When it comes to the measures to which this law applies, then you can find it in the preamble, and it is about ensuring additional revenues to cities and municipalities in areas of special state concern with the basis of tax revenue and compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials from incomes, hence, which are denied by the State for the benefit of local self-government units, providing income from the base of compensation to municipalities and cities that have a strict reservation in their fields, national park, nature park, water protection area. It is also an incentive measure for a system of education and education through the subsidisation and transport of third and fourth grade pupils and through subsidisation of the stay of children in kindergartens and mangers in the area of special care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13510	Next replica, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have well touched fellow Petir, demographic situation in areas of special state concern, and that is one really big problem. People move out of there and no one will come to live just because they get an apartment, no one will come to live just because they have a house but first they will come to live if they have a job. And in that sense, as good economic effects and engines of development, you have just mentioned agriculture and good experience in agriculture, and I agree and support it. And so my question to you and the secretary of state is about why the subsidies in agriculture and fishing will take longer than subsidies and aid to the rest of the industry. Therefore, they will be abolished on the date of entry into the European Union, and subsidies in the rest of the industry will continue under this proposal until 2017. So the question is why, when we already have a good effect on agriculture, fisheries on the development of these rural areas that are in the field of special state concern, we could not have chosen tax reliefs for those economic operators that work well and the engine is the development of that area. Why are some other branches of the economy in this regard privileged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13512	Replica reply, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13513	I really don't know where you get this information that you're dealing with that support in agriculture will be lifted. We talked last week about the aid law in agriculture where we were just going with new measures, with an increase in support, with a reduction of criteria, with the return of family economies that were thrown out of the support system by returning them to the system. So out of the 170 thousand family economies that were listed in the register, unfortunately over 70,000 of them did not receive support because of the rigorous law. So the law that we have changed, we have brought 200 thousand family economies back to the support system and, of course, we have created the conditions that every ecological economy is supported that economies in the areas of special care have more support in agriculture than those in the developed area, so that I am not clear on the basis of which you are carrying out this conclusion that the support in agriculture will be removed or that they will be removed, because at this point we are discussing a common agricultural policy at Europe level and what is our goal of certainly being competitive on that market, and of course it is not possible without support. I can tell you this if I have more time, an example of Sisak-Moslavina County where we invested in two-and-a-half years 60 million kuna through encouraging measures for the economy, agriculture and tourism, so some of that money certainly refers to areas of special state concern because most county or county territory is an area of special state concern. We made an industrial growth of 5% and an external trade exchange of $150 million, which was one of the best foreign trade exchanges in the Republic of Croatia. So, of course it wasn't done by the county alone without the municipalities and cities and without the state, but everyone recognized that they had to do something, that they had to pool the funds and help that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13514	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13515	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me say in a few sentences what I have to say about this law and what I think is not good in this law, although, of course, every law that encourages and helps Croatian citizens and undeveloped parts of our country should be supported. But, of course, some things can be better than the law. I will repeat two more thematics with which to start, which is the fact that in Croatia since one of my colleagues said the last choices is harder to live with, and this is especially true for areas of special state concern. And secondly, that this law that we're going to pass today, or already, we're going to vote for these terms, there's going to be a step lower than this law that we've had so far, or rights, and let's say that aid and subsidies for those areas are going to be weaker and lower than they've ever been. Which is why I find it necessary in some way to give more effort and more support to these areas. It is about areas where, in particular, 170 units of local self-government, where local units simply fail to provide those most minimal public needs to their citizens, where there are no conditions for quality living, and quality life involves accommodation, housing, quality work from which you can earn a salary for a decent life so that you can pay the costs for your family. Which is why this area is extremely important, I don't have to stress it specifically. It is included in the first two groups of very many local units that were unfortunately during the Homeland War and devastated and occupied, and in some ways should help them develop as soon as possible, i.e. those damages that occurred during the war are resolved. And third, third category, which, given the criteria of economic development, structural difficulties, demographic criteria and other specific criteria, do not meet, or have a certain level of development and which should be helped to comply, how our whole country develops and develops. These areas, as I said, are about 170, out of five hundred and sixty in Croatia, which means a lot. In their area of life, this has already been pointed out by many colleagues before me, 680 thousand people and all the categories we can look at say that people there live worse than people in more developed parts of Croatia. It also means the average salary and the schooling and the basic needs of the people who live there. This data that says that, given education, as many as 16% of people over 15 have only completed primary school or school, than is the average in Croatia or 6% less people than in Croatia, living in these areas, says that education needs to be invested more. What I would mention, in particular, is that I am not happy with this law, which is to say that entrepreneurs are in some way deprived of tax relief from this information that the lawmaker has given us and that these reliefs are not small and that these entrepreneurs are not few. So we've been over all these years since, since they've been making it easier, you can see the constant growth. So in 2002 there were 284 entrepreneurs, 2003. 450, 2004. 489, 2005. 567. So these measures have obviously produced some results, and entrepreneurs have opened up their companies in these areas and hired people who live there, with the purpose of keeping these people there alive, not to move out of these areas, to be able to live in quality and ultimately to develop that end in some way the same way as Croatia is developing in its entirety. And that is why I cannot support it when these reliefs are lifted, especially as it only felt that the negotiations with the European Union could find a way to leave that part of the relief. We usually have a pretty easy excuse that this is a alignment with European legislation and that, therefore, we need to abolish these reliefs, or that you cannot put into the privileged position of the company that is, or the company that is in that area, or those that are in other areas of Croatia. But in any case, I think that this could be better agreed on in the accession to the European Union, i.e. if it could be seen, we can see that some of these reliefs remain for a certain period, perhaps something more quality could be negotiated there and arranged to make them easier. What I can say is that this law will produce certain obligations of the state and it is good that the state helps these areas. In 2009, 680 million, of which I have to say that most of the waste is being recovered from the houses, which says even though the war has long passed and that in some way a lot of money goes to those houses, that people simply don't have the conditions to return. So I think we should give even more support to our people coming down, that is to give them support in rebuilding the house so that they can live qualityly. This second part when you watch electricity, it is amazing that we have two Croatians in Croatia today. One where we live, in Zagreb in developed areas, and another where people do not yet have the most basic needs, which is electricity. So, people who live without electricity, without water, and of course they have to be given one better quality support in this way to make life more quality for people in these areas. And finally, what I think is extremely important, and that is to see that through certain encouraging measures, it is trying to facilitate education for young people in these areas. And I think it's kind of out of the law to give one piece of support to people who go to colleges or who are high school students who attend colleges in cities. And I see that there is no support there, and that is why my colleague Bernardic and I will make one amendment to pay all regular students from these areas 40% of the average Croatian salary because we believe that this is how we say the gap between 5% of the people who have colleges or who are studying in this area 11% in Croatia is too big. And we think that young people need to be helped to study better even though they come from these areas. Especially when I spoke earlier, we see that wages in these areas are lower, that people do not have the opportunity to educate their children. And I think since we've also given for transportation for primary and secondary school students, we have to give that support to people and to higher education. I don't think it would be too much money if it were 25,000 young people who are in high school, if we took 10% of the people who go to colleges, that's 2.5 thousand regular students. If we were to receive a fee of 2 thousand kuna or 2.5 thousand kuna per month, it is about 5 million kuna per month, I think that the state can help and in some ways would allow those people who do not have the opportunity to pay for their studies and in some way to study in cities because there is, of course, no college in those environments too much, that they can eventually graduate from colleges and be educated. So here it is going to be an amendment that I hope is going to be supported by the promoters and by all the MPs in this House. And finally, of course, I would like to commend this measure concerning Croatian defenders to meet them and to address the housing issues of Croatian defenders in these areas, but I say that we are still far from the level of renewableness of those areas that would allow quality life for people and that would keep people living in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13516	Thank you. We have replicas. First Mr. Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13517	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, you mentioned education and educational measures, educational measures and there is no better driver for economic development without investment in education. And therefore this proposal that you have made and I will complement you in the part in which we are accompanied by an explanation, which is that at the end of the special state concern is 5% of the people with completed college while the story in the rest of Croatia is 12% if it is tried according to the reasoning set out in this proposal and there is no reason why we do not trust him. And that is why we hope that representatives in the Croatian Parliament, all MPs will accept the proposal that students, regular students in the field of special state care, will be scholarshipd with the amount of minimum salary in the Republic of Croatia. This is at 39% and 40% of the salary, respectively, means they are being scholarshipd to be placed in an equal position with other students from Croatia. Why? Because their parents work for a very small amount of money or do not work, and they cannot afford a set of accommodations in university cities. Not only that, but they too are limited capacities of dormitories. There are some problems related to the very study of these people and there is no better driver of the economy without somehow raising the level of people who have graduated from college in these areas. And therefore, I hope that all MPs will just support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13518	Mr. Gordan Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13519	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernardić, you've noticed that well. ... What, Mrs. Solic? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I don't know, try to lift this tile so the chairman will give you his word to say what's on your mind. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] This is how money is seen from the proposal of this law, which is that from the basis of the return on tax on the profits of all these companies that will remain free of that right last year have earned the right to 87.5 million kuna which says there will be more space and can be seen from the proposal's simulation that these funds will be reduced from year to year, meaning 2009. 680 million kuna, 2010. 658. So all the funds that go to areas of special state care will be reduced. So there's a space to be set aside for these students, or those who want to study, and they don't have the opportunity, because the average salaries are much less in these areas, to single out an average of 5 million kuna per month so that these students who have a wish, who ultimately have opportunities and abilities other than financial ones, can study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13520	Mr. Boro Grubisic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13521	Mr. President. I agree with the idea to scholarship students from the field of special state care but we also need to know that units of local self-government also have funds in the counties, cities, municipalities that are scholarshipd by both students and students. But in any case, your proposal is to welcome and I personally tend to support such a proposal clearly. But there's something else that would be more important, if those experts were to get back to the area where they came from and work there. That would be much more important.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13522	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13523	Thank you very much. It is of course a colleague Grubisic tied to each other. If you create a favourable atmosphere regarding the economy in these areas, if you create people of quality who will graduate from college and work normally that they will want to live there. But here's another thing that falls into my law as illogical. We say that because the European Union does not allow the favour of certain companies to be favoured this way, we end these tax reliefs. But in another way, we can bring it back through regional development programs. So that's what 57 million kuna is for. On the one hand, we are removing 87 million kuna through these tax reliefs and we have given for regional and development programmes of cities and municipalities of 57 million kuna. So, we can give Mr. Grubisic more money to help these cities with their programs and to create these conditions that you're talking about, which is that these people have a place to work when they finish colleges. It's just a matter of saying good will to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13524	Replica, Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13525	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Maras, you mentioned earlier the housing care of the defenders that were actually laid down by this law. However, I would mention a group of Croatian defenders from Cavtat who have actually been waiting for their housing since '92. A year. There's this whole chronology that's right here in front of me that's all they've done, all the correspondence they've done. These were correspondence between local units, ministries, or even the case was familiar, both the Prime Minister and the president of the state were familiar. Well, I hope by this law, I'd be very happy and me and all those down there if at least this law would finally get rid of their rights. By the way, I'd like to ask the department representatives. I think you know what group it's about. A group of lawyers from Cavtat, because in the meantime as they haven't resolved their questions they really are, one of the defenders from this group who was a retired Croatian Army officer born in Slavonia he and eight minor children and his wife left Cavtat, because of course their housing solution was not resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13526	Answer, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13527	Thank you very much. You colleagues have well noticed the problems faced by many who have the right under the law, and that right is not a newspaper. That right already exists from before. I'll just remind you, we'll have on the agenda of this session, or maybe if we don't get these sessions, the next State's Attorney's Attorney's Office report, which is a lot of examples where people in these areas can't achieve the right that the law allows them, and the Attorney General writes to the D.A.'s office this fits, but nothing seems to do. Here, we'll have a chance to discuss it, and I'd be happy if these things we define in this law and in this part of what you mentioned came true. Unfortunately, they don't come true, and they answer why they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13528	Replica, Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13529	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, fellow Maras, you said, lift the tile and then you can talk to the dapac. You did not agree first on how much this, the percentage of the average Croatian salary, will be for these students in the field of special state care. The Croatian Democratic Community and the Government in the last term certainly meant students especially the children of defenders, Croatian defenders especially from these areas when you were categorically SDP and you along with them against that decision. That's what you remember. The other thing that's very important is what you said. The city of Zagreb is well-lived and the city of Zagreb is developed. I think dear colleague that you do not know the city of Zagreb at all and how far the borders of the city of Zagreb go. You need to pass this one day, so you will see in which category you would place the area of the southern part of the city of Zagreb, that in the 21st century there is no water supply, no population, that firemen, fire trucks drive the area of Dragošić with 3800 inhabitants every other day drinking water. So the Horvat area, the same situation. So the Horvat area where there is no asphalt road, where a school bus can't be driven by children in private and, of course, using the carlovic road and using a self-boring, carlovic transport. That's one thing. But all these people pay 18% cut to the city of Zagreb. My colleague, please, you should care more in Sisak-Moslavina County, not in the city of Zagreb, because I know the city of Zagreb very well. Secondly, my colleague Maras does not agree with your policy in the city of Zagreb for 8 years and where you are simply leading such distribution either economically, financially or in development and any other. In Brezovica, you give zero, but that's why you'll again... [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13530	Mr. Gordan Maras' answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13531	Thank you very much. Mrs. Šolić is quite fiercely this small and has expanded the subject. She left the Law on special state care to the city of Zagreb, but it is already a common practice, so nothing surprising. As for Mrs. Solic, SDP and relations with young people. We've never been to get young people to scholarship and we're never at least what I remember, the SDP policy has always been to give young people as much quality training as possible and to give them that support. Perhaps the question was that all children were the same and that all children should be in the same position when they decided to go to college and study. Another thing about Zagreb, I know Zagreb very well, because I was also a councilman of the city district and I've been through a lot of the city of Zagreb, but what you're saying is that this is not true is also seen from the election results, where the mayor you mention in Brezovica got more and the SDP got in the last parliamentary elections more than your party. Yeah, so take a look at the results for that. And in the end, you'll have, you'll have, and here's your colleague Opacic was the carrier on that list. She knows we've been better at Bezovica and we haven't been punished. You'll probably have a chance in the next local elections to confirm that your thesis and personally run for the Council of the Fourth President, so let's see how the citizens recognize what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13532	Perhaps you've forgotten that the rest of us exist except the two of you here who listen, so it's not meant for you to just be among yourselves. And I don't know, this agenda point is actually expanded. That's what we're done with these replicas now. And let's move on, so it's Mr. Boro Grubisic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13533	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I am, out of these games, left and right. Here's the thing. 680 thousand residents, 680 million kunas this year. Next year something, 2010. Something less. So 1,000 kuna per capita per area of special state care. 1,000 kuna a year. The bill is very simple. Once after World War II, there was a marshal's plan for Western Germany, and then he was in that rotten Yugoslavia as a Fund for Undeveloped, and this first one succeeded in Germany. This underdeveloped fund somehow remained so that those who were underdeveloped remained undeveloped. Here in our free Croatia we have areas of special state care and mountain-mountan areas and then a law that will come out on regional development that should actually be in all 3, all these 3 laws and all those 3 elements should make up some kind of marshall plan for our areas of special state care that has 3 groups, although there are really municipalities in each of these groups that are not in the same position or seem to be very categorized but I would not enter into that. The proposal for this law states that operational support or that operational support will always need to be limited duration and gradually decrease and must be abolished at the time when the regions concerned achieve real convergence with the rich areas of the European Union on page 2. Well, I would ask myself and all of us together when these areas will thus convert to economic growth and wealth to be somehow co-convergent or at the same level as the rich areas of the European Union. Let's say Bavarian and I don't know, let's have, we have other examples. We brought it this way "adhoc" that it must be 2017. Someone says it matches that this reduction, I am now talking about those tax reliefs, i.e. profit tax, tax exemptions, with somehow entering the European Union, and that this is dictated by the European Union for equating business conditions, the market economy and so on. But actually do we even know when we will enter the European Union and is this, this date 2017 as long as we have some time in connection with these tax reliefs quite appropriate? Is he really good? Or are these areas of special state concern that have remained at the level of that, and it is not, there is not much shift of economic, demographic and others whether for everyone to remain in 2017? We've seen that there's quite a number of businessmen here in the statistics, and it keeps growing, it keeps increasing. So the user of tax relief and that, as we passed that Vukovar law the other day and actually made a restriction of tax reliefs for businessmen who carry the economy and these regions and that city along with to say and support the state, is it going to be stimulating and is it going to be good this way to say these restrictions in this part? In 1996, I was in Kablada, Cablar or Cablarima in Pokuplje on, as a member of the special police doctor on demining. People came back, that was the occupied end, wasn't it? People have returned to their homes. The road was paved but a host where we got drinking water said, "I can't eat a house either. I can't eat the road. And now they say electricity, gas, school bus and so on without employment and without encouraging employment and without economy in vain and infrastructure and everything else." That's what the data is saying, I dare say, I hope that someone will not, that someone will not blame me as soon as I speak about Croatia as a whole and not just about Slavonia, that this is how the data is also witnessed that at 50 and 4 kilometers between Zagreb and Sisak lives half a million inhabitants. And on the move from the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the village of Ripac in Bosnia to over Lapca, Mazina, Bruvana, Gracaca and up to Obrovac may live at the top of the head of 15 thousand inhabitants within 120km. It's so-called. And even if I didn't talk about the Banovina areas and so on, the Court municipality like Mrs. Petir said, it's so-called. soft belly of Croatia. Especially in this last part of what I said, there's a smuggling of goods and people. There the mob is going through, freely through, every honor to our border police and so on, but in such a place that is so rarely inhabited, there's everything and everything. Is Croatia aimed at relaxing these spaces? Is it intended for Croatia to remain a white stain on the map, the demographic map of Croatia? In addition to all the requirements of Europe, I am aware that this bill of law helps us to really help build houses, infrastructures, in the area, in the domain of social care, we are also excellent. And we welcome that, it's all right, but what attracts people is an economy, it's a greater gain or an example. As much as in Zagreb, here recently there may be something less, and now there are doctors at the Employment Office. How many doctors do you need in this area? And what kind of doctor would come from Zagreb to work at Lapac? Or the Court? Or the Drenovs at the parish? Or the abseves? Or in Lipovac at the very border of Croatia's Srijem with Vojvodjanski Srijem not to speak any other name. And what money would he come for? So if we're going to have people highly educated, we have to reward them. We have to keep this shortfall from telling someone, some civilizational achievements and infrastructures and comforts, so we have to compensate them in some way. So in this area that was spoken of by gentlemen who had been throwing themselves a little before, that is, the scholarship in any case these high-level staff, highly educated people, high professional training must be well rewarded if they live there and therefore do their job in the area. Who wouldn't go to the apartment and, say, double the salary of going to Zagreb to live in that area? I'm sure people like that will find each other. We have such people and among those 20,000 who are waiting for Croatian citizenship, who have some complications in getting it, and we are thinking about importing labour from some other countries. And further, we need to understand that in these areas that are written here, so all the municipalities and cities, so in the first group or category of 51 municipalities or the city, 33 are from Slavonia, 18 are from other areas of Croatia, so what I would like to point out is that this is an undefined area, and we have today had a debate over the fact that the 20 million kuna of the Mine Action Centre in budget rebalancing is too little. And it's actually for these areas, and we didn't count on it and we didn't adopt any amendment or proposal to increase it, as soon as it increased agricultural revenues in those areas. Therefore, there is still room for the draft law, i.e. in the area of special state care, to improve... And to the state, it's a simple state intervention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's room, there's ways to improve life, living conditions, and slowly start thinking that these ends don't become as completely released as they were during the Turkish Empire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13534	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13535	Thank you, Mr. President. The very name of this law, therefore, the Law on areas of special state care, shows that in the Republic of Croatia there are cities and municipalities or parts of cities and municipalities that require special public care, i.e. to be more specific, more concerned than the rest of the Republic of Croatia. The bill, which I do not think has changed much in relation to the existing law, lists 3 groups of areas of special state concern, with the first and second group, which is therefore about areas affected by war and war destruction, and the third group is defined as a group under specific economic, social, demographic criteria. A colleague of Bodakosh noticed that 40% if I heard the areas of the third group that I would like to say something about, in Slavonia. I think that part lies because there are two other laws that define also areas of more special state concern, if this is already called from a special one, which is the Law on the Islands and the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Areas. Since units of local self-government in Slavonia do not belong either in the island or in most mountainous areas, it is normal to find them in this law. It is doubtless that the existence of this law makes life easier for citizens in these areas, that is, if there were no of this law, it would be worse, in whatever form it is. Therefore, this law that is now in force and the one that we bring in, and if half of what has now come out of it, it would be good to have it again rather than have it gone because at least one way makes life easier in those areas of which it applies. There are several kinds of reliefs that allow people and legal persons and units of local self-government in these areas. When I speak to these areas, I mean all areas covered, so also mountain-mounted areas and islands and parts in special state care. One part, in any case, of the reliefs that apply to individuals I support, and also most of what concerns local self-government units. In this regard, Croatia is a highly centralised country, and we actually happen to have much more from local self-government units, so we put municipalities and cities and counties in the state budget than it would be acceptable for a medium-centralised country, and then we return to them through various forms of help what they themselves have earned. But I repeat it better than there's no law like this. When the Law on Government was adopted at the first session of the Parliament, counterpart Branko Grcic, therefore a person of exceptional expertise in regional development noticed that the formation of a new Ministry of Regional Development was, in effect, the Department of Islands and therefore the care for the islands remained in the second ministry, in the Ministry of the Sea. So it happens to us that some solutions in this law and in the Law on Mountain Areas come to the Assembly in an emergency procedure and are adopted without having to experience it from another ministry that should change the same or similar things then and in the Island Act. For example, Articles 25 and 26 of this Law discusses compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in areas of special state concern which are income from the Republic of Croatia. At least three municipalities on the island of Brac which does not fall within the area of special state care because it is covered by the Island Act, most of their original incomes are based on a fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Namely, it is famous in the world of the Brač stone, many songs are written about it, some are sung, some are left only in literary form, but many families and many units of local self-government live on that stone, and I have listed here three out of eight of them on the island of Brac. It is very difficult to actually produce a Brač stone outside Brač, if someone has a formula for it, let me, yes, I do not know it, so therefore these encouraging measures for local self - government units should certainly be incorporated into the Island Act. I would not like the islands to be a collateral victim of the division of prey in the ruling coalition coalition's coalition games, so just because there is not enough coordination between the two ministries of some provision of the Law on areas of special state care is not applied to the island municipalities of which most probably meet the criteria to classify them in this third group, so which is lagging behind in the development of these three criteria economically, structuralally and demographically. I have waited all day, but I remember that in the debate on behalf of the club of colleagues Stazić one of the representatives, and it is not Mr Markovanovic or Mr Mance who also had a debate, he spoke about how he cared about the islands, an apology for areas of special state care in those times that Mr Stazic said was about his, our or his successors. I'm willing to do that to the gentleman who said that, refund the entire party membership he gave in those times, because after 20 years, I don't think there's any point in going back to that part. Dear Mr. President, I ask you to consider including if this is already defined in the Law on mountainous areas, I ask you to consider whether either in the Law on Islands or in this law the solutions made in this law, and may refer to them, so that we do not have to comply again with the legal property of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13536	Thank you. So 20 years shouldn't talk about it. We've been here for over 30 years, so we're still sorry that we left and reminded... in time of war. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you. Now here's Mr. Goran Heffer. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And finally, on behalf of the Government, State Secretary, Mr Milivove Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13537	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament are honored. Here we were trying so consciously to record everything or more or less of what you said today. I first thank you for the comprehensive debate and positive and negative remarks. I have a need to answer one by one or think sublime more or less the common ones. So, as the argument put forward by Janic during this morning's debate is at the very beginning, the Law on areas of special state concern is here before you as a result of the agreement of certain provisions of his provisions with the acquis of the European Union. If that had not been the case, this law would not have changed but would have gone in the direction that the Government is otherwise going and in which it is said and it will be so that at the end of the third quarter, at the end of the third quarter, there will be a new Regional Development Strategy and the Regional Development Act where it should be reconciled precisely on the one hand, the evaluation of all the measures that have been applied in this area, as well as the assessment, perceiving, therefore foreseeing new measures that should contribute to this particular regional development, I think, above all, to these areas. According to all our analysis, in more than 95% of cases, the most underdeveloped municipalities overlap with areas of special state concern. Less from mountain-mounted areas, less from border areas. I agree with one part of the island. So, as I said, studies have been under way so far, so far, these measures, or measures that have been in force until the adoption of this law, and therefore a study of the new measures that will take place in the new strategy. So that's how this law should be read. As far as support is concerned, I am also obliged to explain one detail. We take a degressive approach but to operational support. Therefore, these support provided for by this law today and provided for by the current Law on areas of special state concern are in nature operational, which means that they are not evidenceable in terms of eligible costs. I would only refer you to the Investment Encouragement Act and in connection with it on a map of regional support where according to the statistical regions which Croatia has three, and the possible amount of benefits is significantly higher even than any of these laws. However, their classification is different from those of these aids. On the other hand, when we say that companies, or companies operating in the area, will lose that part over the next three years, so nothing will happen, only after three years will a degressive fall occur, that income all goes to local self-government units in the area. So the local self-government units themselves did not lose any of it, or they lost the companies, but they got the local self-government units themselves. It was also a question of what the news was, so there was a comment that this law was below the standards of the former law and it was said accordingly, here's the representative lady said, so we subsidize kindergartens, high school, mineral raw materials, so we give up that income, national parks and all the others, so protected forms of territory. A co-ownership problem has also been solved, which has been a very big problem so far in treating and determining the right to housing. So this law regulates that 35 squares is a minimum of living space that allows or prevents a person from being entitled to residential care. Secondly, a group of users who came to the area right after "Storm", who at that time had achieved housing care by the basis of the Law on renting apartments in the freed territory, and they could not buy it up to this day. The defenders are also resolved. So the defenders of the groups that we are thanks to the decisions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made since 2005, to this day donated over 2,000 apartments in accordance with these regulations, and here it is now incorporated into the law. Certain doubts have been settled between reconstruction and housing. So we have so far had users of the primary former homeowners who could not get the right to rebuild because they had no residence on the house, and they couldn't get an apartment, so they couldn't achieve housing because they had co-owned or owned a house that was destroyed and it was settled. The problem of power connections has been solved. Land books have been solved. The status is defined, and most importantly, so the status of the newly formed family is defined. So the newly formed family has the right to housing according to this law. I would therefore return to another detail, and that is Mr Grubisic said, that a thousand kuna per capita, but that is the price of this law alone. This law is not everything, it's okay to calculate, but this law is not all about areas of special state concern. I would return to the regulation of 28.6. last year, which followed from the Law on the Areas of Special State Care for the Sale of Houses and Apartments in the area where the estimated revenue is greater than €1 billion and in the 100% amount belongs to units of local self-government. As for the small and medium-sized economy, this week will be signed so one with 73 companies in the area of special care will be signed gifts, so contracts according to the social economic recovery programme where we, with donations of 7 and a half million euros or 50 million kuna, mobilise over 300 million kuna therefore investments in the area. Therefore, they would not now return to these programmes, hence the restoration of municipal infrastructure through the programmes of the Council of Europe, through the European Investment Bank programmes and so on. So it's not the price of this law, but it doesn't mean that it's the only thing in areas of special public concern. And finally, I wouldn't want it to remain irresponsible, and what actually the law quietly wants to emphasize is yes. You can see that we are slowly coming out of the sphere of buying houses and spheres in areas of special state care for the needs of housing and the sphere of renovation of apartments because this topic of not telling the story goes to its end and that we are stressing the packages of construction material. So the construction material packages at this point are the most exclusive measure absolutely in this area, and this is what the primary testimony is, so at the level of the year is over 3,000, and that is why the housing users who decide on this are not basically the most socially vulnerable groups until they can take this building material and can build a house with it. I think it's very important to emphasize because at this point we have almost 11,000 housing claims in this area through therefore donation of construction material. And all these numbers that we've put out today are far from symbolic. And finally, ma'am, if I don't stay in debt, as far as the cautatian defenders are concerned, like you said, it's a long story. I was personally involved in it. We are therefore, we cannot skip the element of the local self-government unit. So if the civil property doesn't have it in state property, which means it's for construction purposes, it's gone. We offered them all residential care in any other area of the Republic of Croatia, among them and families... which you said, which you mentioned, which went to Baranja and got the right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's not the only one, she's another Sobodic family. So the two families accepted housing in other areas. And it's not those lonely cases. They may be about Cavtat, but it is not a unique case for someone to apply for housing in one area and achieve it in another. That's what we do in case we don't have an adequate form of housing. In their particular case, this D model was requested, so to find both land and construction material. Given the Cavtat area let's say the Dubrovnik-Neretva County which is within the area of special state care we weren't able to do, we offered them any other model or to buy their own land to get construction material, or to accept housing care anywhere else where we have it. I'm saying two families have accepted. That's it. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13538	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. The final draft law on areas under special national care is an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 117. The debate is closed. A review of all amendments was delivered to your benches. The Government’s amendments were sent in accordance with Article 169. The Rules of Procedure, an integral part of the final draft law and shall not be voted on. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments, Mr. Mikulić, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13540	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13541	Proposal for an amendment by Mr Arsen Bauk to Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13542	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that, therefore, the Law on areas of special state care is not a roof law. It will be the Law on Regional Development, so the Law on Islands and the Law... , The Law on areas of special state care refers only to areas of special state concern. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13543	Mr. Representative Bauk. Here you go. He's gone. Let's vote on the amendments. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 2. Legislative Committee on Article 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13544	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13545	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. The Legislative Committee in Article 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13546	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13547	It's becoming an integral part. And the government's amendment is an integral part of the law. Then MPs Davor Bernardić and Gordan Maras, 5th Amendment... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13548	The amendment is not accepted with the reason that the proposal for a new law provides for both a small capital aid item and a student problem will be addressed in another way. So this amendment actually complicates establishing the regularity of students and all that. So there is a programme to help municipalities who will then lend their students. So if the purpose of the proposal was to lend students, students would be credited, only not to be centralized through the ministry, but through units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13549	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13550	Thank you very much for your explanation. So the purpose of this amendment was that since you pointed out in the bill itself to a problem which is a particular state concern in units in terms of only 5% of the population deciding to go to colleges at all, unlike 11% in the second part of Croatia. We wanted to give support in this way to make it easier for people to decide because in not a small number of cases, there is a reason why they do not have financial resources to pay for the study. This argument pleases me in part, but since there is no exact data as much as it is and how these students help, I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13551	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Six. Legislative Committee on Article 30?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13552	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13553	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Seven. Legislative Committee on Article 34?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13554	The amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13555	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Thank you. I am voting, therefore, on the final proposal for a law on areas of special state concern. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill adopted most votes, 80 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 44 against, together with the amendments adopted. We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on the insurance of workers' claims in case of bankruptcy of the employer, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 119. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure and in accordance with Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Mrs Vera Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13557	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Let in a few sentences remind you of a proposal that is now on the agenda. It is, therefore, a proposal for a Law on the provision of the claim of workers in the event of the employer’s bankruptcy. It is an institute that is part of social security, and this legislative initiative has been launched in order to achieve full compliance with the binding acquis in negotiating Chapter 19 of the Social Policy and the employment and fulfilment of commitments taken from the negotiating position for this chapter in the area of strengthening institutional capacity. In addition, this proposal also required horizontal harmonisation of national law in the area of payment of claims and thus brought into line with the Law on the implementation of the budget and the Tax on Income Act. What does this law do? The law regulates the Institute of Alimentation Payments of Workers' Claims for the opening of bankruptcy against the employer, workers' rights are ensured at a socially acceptable and minimum level, therefore fiscally sustainable and socially acceptable, and then effective and how much fiscal sustainability and acceptable minimum social level allows. So there was no change compared to the current solutions. Therefore, the claims protected by this law are unpaid salaries for the last 3 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, i.e. before the termination of the working relationship if the working relationship has been terminated within that deadline, then the outstanding compensation for the sick leave and the fees for the unused annual leave, the prescribed severance payments under the law and a third legally sentenced. Therefore, the minimum levels relate to the maximum wage fees for the last 3 months to the minimum wage height, to the outstanding sickness benefits up to half the minimum wage, for unused vacations up to half the minimum wage. As regards severance, half of the highest amount of a certain severance bill is protected, and as regards the rightful resulting damages caused by professional risks, it is the height relating to a third of the amount so legally awarded. The law then prescribes the procedure and deadlines for the exercise of rights and the activity of the agency for, which is in the function of payment, payments and then the re-bursement of claims. In relation to the currently applicable solutions, according to the rules governing the bankruptcy proceedings, the newspaper is to define precisely the beginning of the pre-exclusive deadline for submission of applications, in such a way as to extend the application of the claim to foreign employers established in the European Economic Area, whose place of work or the usual place of work was within the Republic of Croatia to ensure that those provisions enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. Job insurance operations will be singled out and proposed by the Fund for Development and Employment, which has a completely different role, and a new institution, i.e. an agency that carries out, within its activities, the necessary international activities related to the rights of workers of a foreign employer and the exercise of criminal rights by means of the guarantee bodies of the States in charge of the employer. With respect to the fact that the employer is in bankruptcy, an employer whose powers and responsibilities are actually held by a bankruptcy manager, who is the only person who can establish a tax-recognized documentation, this proposal proposes to regulate the way in which insurance claims are paid through the employer's dedicated account in a bankruptcy that is protected, because it is not subject to the regular distribution of the assets of the creditor. Although it is that the scope and level of the rights to be protected are not extended, additional resources in the state budget as set out in the reasoning of the law will still need to be provided to ensure the implementation of this law. However, although a new agency will take over part of the Fund for Development and Employment staff, to carry out the necessary jobs, new employment will be needed in the bankruptcy process in order to speed up the return of re-payments and, of course, that agency will have to be involved in the development of information in the area of transnational business activities. I believe this proposal, that this proposal further ensures the competence and efficiency of the infrastructure needed for this part of social security, and I believe that this bill will get your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13558	Thank you very much. The amendments have been submitted by the Legislative Committee so far. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13559	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, fellow MPs. The proposed law is part of a package in the field of labour social legislation, to which the Republic of Croatia fulfils the obligation to adopt the negotiating positions set out in Chapter 19. Social policy and employment. The aim of the law is to recognise claims in the bankruptcy procedure as quickly and as successfully as possible to pay off short-term workers in order to avoid further impoverishment of workers. It is therefore intended to create quality institutional assumptions through the future Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims as a guarantee body which assumes all procedural rights of the creditor rather than the claims taken over. The Fund for Development and Employment in the exercise of its religious rights has obviously not achieved satisfactory effects, so the consequences of the past 5 years have not been charged 65 million 281 thousand 309 cinemas, i.e. claims to bankruptcy employers. This poor efficiency of the fund was most felt by the workers found in the bankruptcy process. Unfortunately, the most frequent bankruptcy procedures are slowed, long-term, inefficient for various reasons, and even because of individual interests of certain bankruptcy managers whose efficiency and honesty in conduct would have to be more often controlled by the whiskey Commercial Court. So far experience has shown that the fund as an institution is not a legal form that can ensure the protection of workers' rights to a certain social minimum, but also regressively in the bankruptcy process to collect these amounts from the bankruptcy. Due to these shortcomings and legal obstacles, the fund failed to charge the sums paid to the workers from the bankruptcy. The Agency will act as a public institution to which all the regulations governing the work and operation of the institution will apply. Although the public institution is an independent legal person, it is guaranteed the impact and supervision of its work by interested social partners on the labour market because the administrative body of the agency is composed of representatives of three social partners, the government, which will be represented by the competent ministry, trade unions and employers. The legal form of the Agency as a public institution provides, to a greater extent, protection for workers who exercise their rights through the agency, since the possibility of second-degree settlement of workers' complaints to a solution issued by the Agency has been ensured. Under the new law, each worker will be able to comment on the agency's solution, and the opposition is decided by the competent ministry. The worker remains still as the possibility of judicial protection of bankruptcy rights so far, but by introducing two-stageism in resolving workers' rights before court proceedings and by shortening the time limit for payment is objectively increased protection of workers' rights. In addition, the legal form of the agency makes it possible to represent to a greater extent what is the basis of the law paid to workers paid out of bankruptcy. The Agency shall also take on working claims in the insolvency proceedings of the worker as a creditor for that part of the worker’s claims to be paid to workers. It is important to stress that the proposed law does not reduce any rights of workers set out in the existing Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy, which was adopted on 14 July 2003. Therefore, those who question the safety of workers in bankruptcy under the new law are alone in great error or deliberately misleading the public. The proposed changes to the law are more positive and favourable for workers than the existing law. In the part of the law in which workers' rights are regulated, the provisions governing the following rights have been laid down in relation to the earlier regulation. The first right to pay unpaid salaries is also granted to workers who were not in a working relationship with employers at the time of the opening of the bankruptcy, provided that their working relationship ceased within three months of the opening of the bankruptcy, i.e. in the period for which salaries are paid. So far, this has not been precisely defined, so in practice there have been different actions. Secondly, the right to pay unpaid salaries and to pay shall be linked to a minimum wage rather than to a minimum wage determined by a collective minimum wage contract. This provision is not only the harmonisation of this law with the Minimum Salary Act but it increases the amount of protected workers just as much as the minimum wage is higher than the previous minimum wage. Third, the right to pay one-third of the compensation paid due to injury to work or occupational illness is achieved regardless of when the worker’s employment relationship has ceased. An obligation shall be imposed on the bank manager to open a special dedicated account to which funds are to be deposited by the Agency. So far, no obligation to open a special dedicated admission account and to pay off funds intended for protected workers' rights in bankruptcy has been prescribed, so such a solution increases workers' safety and speeds up the process of exercising labour rights. And the next is a short term. It is half shorter compared to the deadlines in which the privileged bodies are obliged to resolve the request of workers, which speeds up the process. The demand will also be possible for workers whose place of work is in the Republic of Croatia and for the foreign employer a bankruptcy procedure has been launched. This positive newspaper is important because of those foreigners who open businesses or buy factories in Croatia to use or deceive our worker by opening bankruptcy. The future bankruptcy will include its entire assets in accordance with the national legislation of the Member State of the European Economic Area. A period shall be set within which the creditor is obliged to pay the funds received to workers, which has not been prescribed so far. In the light of the above, it is necessary to amend the obligation of the creditor to make appropriate documentation to the competent authorities relating to the payment of contributions to protected workers' claims, thereby directly affecting their rights in pension insurance, which is particularly important for workers provided in the second pillar of compulsory pension insurance. It is essentially not about increasing the scope of workers' money rights but the new law regulates the legal procedure for the implementation of these procedures, and this procedure is in line with the rules and requirements of bankruptcy and tax rules, which indirectly increases the level of protection of workers' rights as well as the efficiency of the state in the collection of claims in bankruptcy proceedings. In all, the proposed law is much more favourable and ensures greater existential safety for workers whose companies are in bankruptcy. This is why the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the proposed Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy by employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13560	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13561	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. As is known, the current Law on ensuring the protection of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy of the employer was adopted on 14 July 2003, it is necessary to say unanimously of all present parliamentary representatives. The law lays down the role of the Fund for Development and Employment as a guarantee fund for the payment of part of the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of its employer. This part of the claim by workers shall be paid to the burden of the state budget of the worker whose company has gone bankrupt and therefore does not depend on the duration or outcome of the insolvency proceedings on the employer. Although it is not an absolute and complete protection of workers' claims, it is thus protected at a socially acceptable minimum level of social security. The bankruptcy is generally a complex and long procedure with the uncertainty of good completion, which means paying off the workers' claims resulting from the date on which the bankruptcy was opened. It is most likely that in most of the bankruptcys at the time of the opening of the bankruptcy of companies where employees are already on their knees with a certain number of months sometimes years of unpaid salaries and other labour rights and should be eaten, paid for electricity and water, educated children. In order to delay the risk of total poverty, and even the misery of this law, the state takes the role of payers of the last three unpaid salaries to the worker or possibly unpaid sick leave up to the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia for each outstanding month, the fee for the unused annual leave in the year in which the working relationship stopped up to half of the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia, the compensation as half of the maximum amount of the prescribed severance bill and the rightful compensation due to injury to work or occupational illness, up to one third of the amount of such compensation awarded. It is therefore the first fire but necessary measure that a worker who has lost his job and may not have received any income for a long time does not catch despair and hopelessness. Essentially, in terms of the size and height of labour rights that were to be paid under the 2003 law, and now according to this new law that we are passing, there is no significant difference, some deadlines and executions, and procedures in the shops are changing. The differences are present in the holder of these activities, so according to this new proposal, it is no longer a Fund for Development and Employment but a new public institution of the Republic of Croatia, which will be established under the name of the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Claims in the event of the bankruptcy of the employer. There will also be differences in the number of people who will do the job. So far, it has been done by three people at the Fund for Development and Employment and from now on ten people will be employed by the agency. The difference will also be present in the way money is transferred to workers. The old law found that the fund pays employers' debts to workers within 30 days of the power of the solution, but it proved that this was formally wrong because the Budget Law does not allow payments from the state budget to workers directly and the law was not in line with the Income Tax Act which directly obliges the employer to establish tax-recognized documents. Although it was also adopted on the other hand by a regulation which required the fund to be deposited with workers, to the jury-account of an employer in bankruptcy or a commercial court in charge of bankruptcy proceedings, some bankruptcy managers did not want to forward the money to the workers by calling on the law to do so directly to the workers rather than to the bankruptcy managers. The provisions in the regulations that said the fund would make money available to them, and they wouldn't accept workers because the law is stronger than the rules. The regulation has been unlawfully rejected by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. In this transfer of the ball between the fund and the bankruptcy managers, the workers suffered because the money was lying on the giro accounts and they excavated electricity and water for the time being. Of course, we are left with an enigma why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not the moment when the error occurred, when the first such case occurred when someone could not or wanted to pay the money to the workers in bankruptcy, sent it to the Assembly of Amendments to the Law, which would be said that the workers' money goes to the bank account of the debtor and that then the bankruptcy managers must assign them to the workers. It's a few sentences of legal provisions. It took nearly five years for these few clarifications to come from the government, so the change in the way money is transferred to workers is now legal. The change from the old law is also because the application is extended to workers of a foreign employer from the European Union by taking these provisions into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. Of course, according to both old and new law then the fund and now the agency, after paying workers in part of their claims, enters into the role of the creditor in the bankruptcy process with the aim of restoring the funds paid out of the bankruptcy of the companies in bankruptcy. We haven't received any data on how many of these five years the Development and Employment Fund has managed to collect from creditors instead of who made payments to workers who lost their jobs. It would be good for this Parliament to get that information to see if the state charges anything or none of the companies in bankruptcy. At that time, we could also valorize the data we received in the materials, which is that the government failed to charge 65 million kuna out of the bankruptcy debtors during that period. It intrigues, of course, the fact that seven new people will need to be employed in this new state public institution, and it is also said that the necessary funds for this purpose are being reduced year by year because the growing number of workers left out of work is due to the bankruptcy of the employer. So under the old law, we had an employee of 3 people who were supposed to pay more money than 10 employees would have to pay them now. They also intrigue the provisions of Article 8 of this Act, which states that the Agency will be managed by a three-member administrative board. One will be appointed by the minister responsible for the work, one will be a representative of the Union, and one representative of employers on a proposal from the Economic and Social Council. I don't think we should guess which of the three of them will be president of the Board of Directors. Article 5 of this Article states that the President of the Governing Council may suspend from implementing a decision of the Governing Council which has negative consequences on the financial operations of the Agency. With the best will to find out which decisions could be made with negative financial consequences that could be voted by those other two naughty members of the Agency's board of directors have failed to understand the logic of the promoter. When the law is clear as day. It goes through a line of bankruptcy, a report of debt by workers, a solution by the agency according to strictly established legal criteria, and payment to the creditor's dedicated account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13562	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13563	Mr. President of the Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'm going to take advantage of is the occasion of this bill, so maybe I'll give a little commendation to the restor whose head is Madam Secretary of State Vera Babic and who, as far as I remember, was the first to open and hopefully close the chapters, chapters and social policies, which will say that obviously in the legislative sense, the thing was well prepared long ago. This law, which was passed in 2003, which we are now innovating is an integral part of the 2003 labour legislation package when we changed 12 laws and fully aligned them with the European Union, they say we have done a good job for Croatia as a state, for our legal system, but we have done a good job for both employers and workers. Thus, on the occasion of the adoption of this law 5 years ago, here we will now be on the 14th of July as it is reminded, unanimously adopted this law which was indeed necessary to pass, because at that time, we recorded a bankruptcy procedure that was launched in 5 thousand 358 companies, inherited some nearly 1000 unresolved bankruptcy proceedings and 32 thousand people were at the time in the game when it came to bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings. I was able to obtain data for the years that followed in 2003 when, when it appears that newly registered unemployed persons have been moving since 2000 in 2004 three thousand, in 2005, two thousand thousand 461 and in 2007 one thousand 135. From the first month to the sixth month of this year, 571. At the moment, the unemployed are about 10,000 people due to the opening of a bankruptcy procedure registered at the Employment Office. I quote this information because it might be good in, not to convince now that it's in this law because the thing was solved 5 years ago, that we might start a story that would actually mean one serious bankruptcy problem that has been put completely in "out" for 5 years as a solution that in itself "apriori" is bad, unnecessary and harmful. And one was created, I would say, a political fama about how bankruptcy should be avoided at all costs, even at the cost of keeping exhausted businesses artificially alive for years on donations, subsidies, aids or whatever you want, and that human and material resources are actually being destroyed in these companies, and that ultimately there is a collapse or the death of the company, that all workers who worked are going to the street, and that last years they were exhausted by minimum wages, irregular wages, etc. etc. According to some data that I have consulted about 20,000 companies in Croatia at this time, there are all conditions for opening up a bankruptcy procedure against them, i.e. employers. Seventy of these are state-owned companies. In the past 5 years, the Croatian government has not opened a single bankruptcy I would say for political reasons, to raise or buy social peace, to raise in that part of the union scene that will not actually understand that this is the greatest killing for workers, above all, not opening up bankruptcy under such circumstances. It is therefore that bankruptcy should be discussed as quite normal, one normal legal operation and one process that can be a great investment opportunity for Croatia, as well as a number of very serious expert and scientific research. This fear of bankruptcy has no basis and it should not concern workers at all in any way. However, here are the figures in the last five years that say that this is not the case and that this is actually the result of an unwarranted fear. When it comes to this law, when we passed it, we had first of all in mind the fact that it is possible that what happened, and that is that the state in this case through the Employment Development Fund, will not be able to collect its claims which it has regressed, so it has alimated for the purpose of workers for the purpose of protecting their claims. And I have to say, I'm happy to hear that the state of 65 million, 281 thousand kuna, has been denied. I'm glad that means this law wasn't there to be so many deprived workers. And the fact that the state wasn't able to charge it is her problem, of course all of us, because it was taken back from the state budget. But I agree with my predecessor. For five years, it has been expected that we, as it is said here, have not created institutional, administrative assumptions for the active involvement of the guarantee body in the bankruptcy proceedings and of the shareholders involved in it. That's not allowed practice. If you saw the 65 million that were named here, so it didn't come overnight. Then I guess we should have reacted sooner. So, when it comes to the SDP club, we don't have anything against this kind of re-purpose to say so or to a new institutional solution if the agency is to be founded. But I am sure that the existing law and existing institutional solutions could have been sufficient if it hadn't gone with this unfortunate and clumsy regulation to ensure quality compliance with the legal obligations of the state in relation to workers and workers' claims. That's all he says, actually, as well as the first thing I said about the legal assumption being created, the law and regulations are good. They are, we have raised them to the highest European standards. But applying, I'd say... and the general disorder in respect of compliance with the laws and regulations did not ensure application, quality application of the rules which are certainly allowed to be processed in an operational sense and to improve, inter alia, the rules which are also provided for in this type of work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What in this case is a change compared to the previous law is although I did not understand this perhaps you can explain why in this law, in this legislative proposal there was no former Article 16 when it came to criminal provisions and the other only provided fines for those employers who, at the request of the Fund, did not now, in this case, have requested documentation at the same amounts as it was five years ago. I think it can also be increased, and in full Article 16 that provides for penalties and sanctions and for the fund, in this case for the Agency, if God doesn't give us a solution within the prescribed time limit. We have so far had to pay the fine of 10 to 30000 fines if it did not reach a solution within the time limit set out in Article 12(1) of this Act and between 3 to 10000 persons responsible in the fund. Penalizing the lack of public service in this case of this agency is also something that would be good predicting because we've seen that there's a lot of things going on here, a lot of what's going on here. Whether the agency itself will become a sufficient guarantee that the application of this law will take place more successfully in terms of the protection of workers and their claims, but on the other hand the protection of the state budget itself from which these funds are being allocated, these funds will only be seen. If that were the case, then that million and 930 thousand kuna for their salaries, chairs, etc. should not be considered an excessive burden and an excessive cost. Some have expressed regret why the passing of this law has not taken one step further? Why not take a step further in terms of increasing the scope of the right and reach, although foreign workers are included here, and perhaps from the very way it works, I have seen proposals coming from some of the union centres that they have offered, it may have been possible to hold a debate that the agency itself, or the entire labour claim fund, is being financed from employers' contributions, as is the case in some European countries. So, perhaps this was an opportunity for all of these issues related to bankruptcy, the breaking of all these bankruptcy fogs, all of these clusters that have nothing to do with real protection of workers and looking for a model that might be more appropriate and what Croatia is facing at the moment, but also what is waiting for us in the future, perhaps this opportunity has just been the passing of this law and the bankruptcy that was passed, here several months ago. In any case, I believe that amending this law and harmonising fully with the current European Union documents will be a welcome improvement and the SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13564	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We've got two more hearings on behalf of the clubs. The first of them is the debate on behalf of the HSS club and the esteemed representative Mr Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13565	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS Club positively assesses and advocates the adoption of this law for several reasons that we consider to create assumptions about the solution to the problem that has proved significant in our near past for the elemental resolution of the existence of socially endangered workers. In recent months, we have witnessed problems faced by workers of the blue "Dalmatins of the new" and similar companies after the bankruptcy. Months without wages and problems with the employer, hundreds of workers led to a strike. This law should prevent such situations and allow workers to collect their rights. The proposed law, in addition to the newspaper adopted, aligns with the 2002 Directive amending and supplementing the 1998 Directive and forms an integral part of the amendments to the labour and social legislation adopted by the Republic of Croatia by opening accession negotiations with the European Union in the field of social policy and employment. We are aware of the fact that the entire lifetime of employment is in one stable and mostly beneficial company behind us and that today we live in a different environment and conditions that bring many changes. We are also aware that changes bring good, new challenges, opportunities, opportunities, but also these changes often bring uncertainty, bribery, cancellations and socially unprotected workers. In the social state, and according to the Constitution, our country has defined that it will be social, it is necessary to protect workers at least in their elemental rights, and this is the right to pay the wages earned and paid. We are also witnessing that the current Law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy of employers, which has not been in force since 2003, has not brought the desired effects, and its application has shown a number of shortcomings in application. The application of the rules obtained has shown all the complexity and incomparability of the formality of the acquired procedure and the non-compliance of a number of acquired bodies in the process resulting in the uncertainty and inability to collect workers' claims. In order to correct the blockade, this law provides that workers can expect payment of material rights on the basis of work immediately after recognition of the acquired procedure. Under the applicable law, institutions that were to ensure the realisation of material rights based on their purpose and administrative capacity could not have been adequately involved in the process of realising labour rights, resulting in unsatisfactory results and impacts. Since the absence of an appropriate institutional framework has been identified as one of the major problems, this bill corrects this lack and provides for the establishment of an agency for the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy of employers as a first-degree body for the resolution and payment of secured claims by workers and bodies responsible for the international exchange of information in the case of business activities in the area of two or more countries of the European Economic Area. We at the HSS Club believe that it is very important because of the complexity and formalities of the acquired regulation to establish such legal mechanisms which will protect certain privileged labour claims in particular and which will ensure their payment independently of the power of the solution in the bankruptcy process. This law thus aims to improve the current institutional framework in order to ensure that those rights are achieved within as short a time as possible and that there is no place of legal uncertainty. The reported payment of secured claims by workers has an alimony purpose, as after which, paid and in a bankruptcy procedure, recognised claims are transferred to a guarantee body which then assumes all procedural rights of the acquirer in relation to the claims taken up until their full or partial collection. The scope of workers' rights shall not be changed, except that the level of their implementation is aligned with the new regulation in the field of minimum wage management, as laid down in Article 3 of the Law. We also draw attention to the article referred to in paragraph 2 of points 1, 2 and 4 which prescribe the maximum amount of certain claims by workers, but not to mention the minimum amount to which the worker is entitled in those cases. We believe that these minimum amounts should also be defined in order to avoid possible doubt and doubt. We welcome the paper proposed in Article 15(2), which is in favour of workers by not binding the right to compensation for injury to work or occupational illness with the termination of employment. Namely, a worker who has failed to make this payment, the rightful resulting damages resulting from this law regardless of when his employment relationship has ceased. We also consider a positive precise definition of the start of the body of the pre-exclusive deadline for the submission of applications in such a way that it is the day on which a bankruptcy administrator acknowledges the claim at the test hearing and is not challenged by a single creditor, and in accordance with the rules governing the bankruptcy procedure. As many problems have been encountered in practice as regards the way workers' claims are paid, it is good that this law prescribes a way of payment, through the employer's purpose account in bankruptcy, which is regulated in Article 20 of this Law. Indeed, the applicable law prescribed the payment of workers' claims is not in line with the Law on the implementation of a budget which does not allow or excludes payments from the state budget directly to workers, as well as with tax regulations or the Tax on Income Act, which obliges the direct employer to establish tax-recognized documents. In this regard, there have already been attempts to improve and simplify the payout of workers by amending and supplementing the rules, but because of the Constitutional Court’s decision which annulled the regulation as illegal, there are still difficulties in paying and collapsing the rules mentioned above. The purpose account is a solution for which there are no obstacles to the rules governing bankruptcy proceedings. And in the end, we at the HSS Club are positively assessing that this law ensures protection of workers' claims and that it is extremely important to establish institutions without which protection would not be possible to implement. In this respect, the establishment of an agency for the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy by employers is a major step forward in relation to current regulation and practice in this area. Previously mentioned in the paper which does not bind the right to compensation for work injury or professional illness with the termination of working relationship goes to the benefit of workers. The protection of workers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is also ensured when it comes to foreign employers who will become extremely important by joining Croatia in full membership of the European Union. Finally, the law solves and how workers' claims are paid, thereby addressing the conflict of rules and difficulties in the payments that have been made so far and caused. The HSS Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13566	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. And the last reported club with Mr. Silvano Hrelja's name on it is the HSLS and HSU club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13567	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I was given an additional motive to go out for this pay phone with the presentation of my colleague Vidovic with whom I, as a unionist, had a lot of clashes over these bankruptcy laws during his time as minister of labour and social care. I would not glorify the role of any government around bankruptcy because there were a lot of changes in bankruptcy laws and in the end you know, there are a lot more workers who have lost their jobs in bankruptcy without getting anything in Croatia than they will be to get these guaranteed minimum funds through now fund or tomorrow agency. In 2001, the coalition government made a good move, which is that it put the workers' claim in the first payment order and that it remained that it did not change in the most part in 2003, so neither this law nor the fund should. It should only be for those cases where the employer's bankruptcy has occurred where there is no bankruptcy mass, then the justification for the existence of the current Development and Employment Fund, which has alimented the protection of the demand for bankruptcy workers or future agencies, would make sense. However, this has not happened, or since 2003, workers' claims have a completely different treatment, they are in a different payment order, the state first makes peace with its claims from the legal entity or employer in bankruptcy. Unfortunately, I must conclude, and I do not agree with all those who say that in Croatia, the bankruptcy is a new chance, although it should be. Nor is bankruptcy committed to saving the part of a legal entity that has a market, which can provide its place on the market by producing goods and ensure its existence for its workers. In my life record experience, and one single case of bankruptcy ended, the bankruptcy procedure ended and the employer, therefore the new owner, the employer that they hired after the bankruptcy was more workers than it was when they entered the bankruptcy. One case only. In most cases, the employer disappeared, simply that economic activity was shut down, and in a small number of cases, only part of the production programs the employer had prior to bankruptcy managed to stay on the market. So even today, there is no prevention of bankruptcy in our bankruptcy law, or in some way because of higher social interest, forcing creditors and debtors to find a way out of the situation without shutting down an economic operator, not to open up a bankruptcy procedure. This is what Slovenia so-called. Forced settlement in that part, therefore, to be found, so that the believers may find themselves and agree on what they will do to that entity. And I remember doing a lot of work with the Croatian Privatisation Fund and there were a lot of cases that our economic operators, i.e. they could turn their claims into ownership shares and thus continue production. I also remember one other case, one single case since the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings and the closure of the same bankruptcy proceedings, and nothing in the economic operator has happened, or that no debt has been settled. It's an example of believe it or not, the fish-processing factory "Mirne" Rovinj. Why? So because probably by opening up bankruptcy in the distribution of properties that mainly end 90% of our bankruptcy, all of what "Peaceful" Rovinj has in its jurisdiction, so the concession on maritime well-being and space was very questionable and someone saw their interest in fighting with all possible means to get that company out of bankruptcy at the High Commercial Court, investing in which guarantees, but that's the only case where the bankruptcy proceedings took place, and that nothing important about the debt of the company has changed. So anyway, I wouldn't repeat what the predecessors said well about this bill. The Croatian Socialsoliberal Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party will support this bill. We think that these are good solutions, even though I'm standing by what I said earlier, that maybe in the past we could be different, but now we're where we are and now we're going this way forward, we're not going to keep changing the rules of the game, and I think that's one solid guarantee. Of course, there is a risk that the state that will give that money, whether in bankruptcy proceedings and part of that money, will collect it, because it essentially pays off its obligations to workers, takes the place of that believer in the bankruptcy process, so it always depends on whether there will be enough bankruptcy and always the state that has and ownership stakes in such companies should be interesting whether what it has paid and returns will be possible. In this context, I have a proposal that may sometimes be remembered in the future, or asks one rhetorical question whether it is quite fair for taxpayers' money to pay off these guarantees in the event that there is no, that the state does not collect its claims in the bankruptcy process or that it might be better than in some regulated countries to cover this risk through the employer's contribution system. I'm sure that, I'm here for a little chat with the secretary of state that it would look for us one way, so let's say restructure let's say a system of contributions which is not very simple, but as an idea I want to share with you because I don't think it's right that such risks are covered by taxpayers' funds, that employers are quite responsible for that risk, and it's good when they move fast, when the employer is quick to start bankruptcy when he's looking for solutions. You know, I am, and I'm gonna share it with you, and I had a case where 14 months of the director stalled his bankruptcy, and it was obvious he couldn't continue production. And you know what he was legally obliged to do within 60 days, and you know what the result of such one of his actions was? From the bankruptcy he received claims his salary of a total of 250,000 kuna. So he didn't feel so bad stalling in bankruptcy. But these are our realities, and I can explain exactly the name and the situation. Therefore, because of the delay of 14 months in the evident inability of the employer to continue his business for this delay, someone was awarded the bankruptcy procedure. I wouldn't want that kind of thing to keep happening. This mechanism, this Institute for the Protection of Workers' Claims, is the result of social dialogue, is the result of the 2003 social partners' agreement yet, it insists, it must be promoted and as such, as an agent, can be critical, but there is really no other way but to respect the social partners' agreement and to propose potentially certain solutions as an improvement of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13568	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Now we have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one came from a respected representative, Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13569	Well, I'd probably fix something that's more implicit than the explicits say the workers were kicked out of the first order of charge in 2003. It's not entirely true. Only part of the claim fell out of the first payment order, because in the first order of payment remained a reminder of the salary for the last 3 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, the salary for the annual vacation on which the worker obtained the right in the calendar year in which the bankruptcy was opened, then it was two-thirds of the average monthly salary paid in Croatia. Payment fee for the last 3 months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy, payment up to one-third of the average monthly salary paid in Croatia, damages suffered due to injuries at work or professional illness. So, it was left in the first payment order, the other claims were transferred to another... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13570	Thank you very much. And the second correction of the quote, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, given that my colleague Silvano is a truthful man, and probably one of his mistakes has been stolen, I need to correct him so he doesn't stay in the air, and that's when he said that the only or the basic problem in 2003 was when workers' claims were paid out of the first priority payment order. Not just that. Namely, I must remind all of us that in 2005, I have proposed amendments to the bankruptcy law by proposing that all workers, not minimum claims, be returned to the first priority payment order of the coalition, which is in the power of... So smoothly refused. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in 2003, but in 2005 the same mistake was repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13572	Thank you very much. Now we're continuing the individual hearing applications. We have seven of them in total. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13573	Thank you very much. The first thing I want to say about the assessment of the situation in the law and the opening argument, and I have promised to remind myself over and over again that I do not understand why, in the light of the law and the assessment of the situation, it does not say whether the social partners of the Economic and Social Council are... or have any separate opinions, whether they're thrilled or anything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also asked the unions why it was never there, and they told me that Prime Minister Sanader was in no way agreeing to sign the bill, so I wonder if Prime Minister Sanader is ashamed of dialogue with the social partners or the fact that he has to discuss or negotiate with someone. This is because it would make it easier for us here in Parliament to see the position of the Economic and Social Council, therefore employers and trade unions, when we get a bill of law. And I'll talk about it every time any regulation comes out of that area so long as someone gets nervous and agrees to sign it into the law. My first remark, fear or question concerns Article 3(2) of the Law, which regulates the level of wages paid by workers from the moment the bankruptcy proceedings are opened and says the highest to the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. If I read this formulation correctly, does this mean that women who work in textiles, leather, rubber, clothing and woodworking activities and in bankruptcy will have a reduced right to minimum wages as prescribed by the Minimum Payment Act? I would like to remind you that the largest number of bankruptcys and loss of jobs and cancellations from that title have been in these activities in the Republic of Croatia for 16 years and that, most often, women of older age with a higher number of years of internships remain out of work. That's where we put them in the second grade at minimum wage, and here when they come into bankruptcy they'll also receive a lower salary in those three months because that's how we prescribed it. Would it not be socially acceptable for it to be beautifully written there, if this were in line with these socially acceptable minimum standards, that at least in a bankruptcy procedure for all workers the same minimumer who will exercise the right... When it comes to point 3 of that same paragraph, it refers to jubilee severance and says, half of the maximum amount prescribed by law, since the bankruptcy is not subject to public, state, local and no one but workers, the Labour Act prescribes one third of the gross salary per year in this respect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gross pays 7 grand 300, one third, one thousand 210 half of that, gross amount, that's all. So, and here we came again to... Everything else with reduced wages and woodworking industry, we are actually coming to the conclusion that these guaranteed payments offered by this law are not so socially acceptable as to the minimum standard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 17(2) speaks of the request, and I quote: "in a bankruptcy procedure a creditor admitted to bankruptcy, and did not dispute a single creditor." Now, in other provisions, it says that the funds that the bankruptcy manager is making during the bankruptcy proceedings are opening a special account to which these funds are going to find the money that... employee claims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether other creditors have an interest in contesting workers' claims, because they are now going to the last account and thereby blocking the bankruptcy manager to accumulate money for payment, or whether that formulation means that it is sufficient for one believer to submit a challenge to the worker's claim or must by means of a powerful decision be challenged by a worker's claim. In other words, Madam Secretary of State, whether the formulation of this paragraph 2 in Article 17 should not be more clear and why it would be sufficient for one believer to launch a dispute against workers' claims, thereby blocking the worker's right and also the bankruptcy manager to accumulate money to pay it off. So, what does the word disputed mean? By final decision or by initiation of proceedings. And thirdly, my fear is either a question of Article 20(4). The Agency will make a direct payment of the recognised claims made to workers referred to in Article 16 of this Act. Extraordinary. So, the law agency says they're going to make extra direct payments. Who decides, so what's remarkable? What are the circumstances and conditions that must be met by law in order to make a direct payment? Shouldn't the law be something clearer and prescribe circumstances and conditions when it comes to direct payments? I fear that in the case of definitions like this that remain unclear even though this applies to Article 16, if I understand it correctly, it leaves the possibility of arbitration within the agency itself, because it is not said that the agency for all sides, but extremely or in a order of words will be guilty. Therefore, it should be written that the agency for workers referred to in Article 16 will make a direct payment. Then it's a clearer provision. Try to read it again, you'll see yourself, while I'm vague, I know I don't know anything, so let me express my doubts, but most often the remarks and warnings I give in my debate, you fix in the first or second amendments or additions to the law, or you still have to accept the amendments. And I'm always surprised over and over again that those warnings that come with the best intentions, you reject, and later in the implementation as you described in the state description, that the implementation so far has pointed to bad legal solutions, and then you fix them only when the situation comes that the law in question is subject to evaluation, state, gentlemen in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13574	Thank you very much. The next reported individual debate is the distinguished representative Mr. Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13575	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honorary secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. When I spoke about the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy, then I must point out that it was passed back in 2003. The legislative initiative was launched in order to achieve full compliance of this law with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 23 September 2002. That Directive amends and complements the Council Directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the protection of employees in the event of insolvency of their employers or termination of work and creates a normative assumption for the establishment of a new institution to ensure the exchange of information with competent guarantee institutions, the Member States of the European Union in cases of business activities in the area of two or more Member States. In view of the fact that the final proposal of the Law on the protection of the claim of workers in the event of bankruptcy of the employer is regulated in addition to the harmonisation described and the material legal, legal protection of workers to whom employers have not paid material labour-based rights due to business difficulties. It put their social security at risk. This legislative proposal defines more precisely the legal institutes in terms of achieving the objectives of regulated legal institutes which were interpreted differently and applied through the case law of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the application of the applicable law. In addition, the applicable law provides for a way of paying workers' claims and does not comply with the Law on the implementation of a budget that does not allow or excludes payments from the state budget directly to workers, as well as with tax regulations or the Income Tax Act. The law regulates the Institute of Alimentation Payments of Workers' Claims in the event of the opening of bankruptcy against the employer, the creditor's agency is established, workers' rights are ensured at a socially acceptable minimum level of type and scope while the rest continues to be implemented in the bankruptcy process, the solution is the same as in the applicable law. Unpaid salaries for the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy or before the termination of the working relationship, outstanding salaries paid for the sick leave which according to health insurance regulations was due to be paid by the employer from his assets in the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy or before the termination of the working relationship, remuneration for the unused annual leave on which the worker obtained the right in the calendar year, half of the maximum amount of the prescribed severance law, a third legally convicted, a penalty due to the sustained injury to work or occupational disease, etc. I must also point out here that the unions had a proposal, but it is unacceptable. Proposals aimed at extending the right in such a way as to pay a much longer period of three months before the opening of the bankruptcy are not acceptable for several reasons. Workers whose employment relationship had ceased significantly prior to bankruptcy achieved the Law on Labour and could already be sued and executed in bankruptcy proceedings. Secondly, in the case of long periods of non-payment of material rights, workers were to initiate bankruptcy proceedings as the sole of the bankruptcy creditors. And thirdly, the extension of the material rights prescribed by the Directive does not oblige other Member States and their guarantee institutions under the regressive requirements. When we talk about this law, we must also say that the means are also needed, although the draft bill does not extend the rights or their scope in relation to the current law. However, the establishment of a new agency to secure the claims of workers in the event of employer bankruptcy will require additional funding in the 2009 state budget of 1 million and 930 thousand kuna. The Agency will take over part of the staff of the Development and Employment Fund. To carry out all prescribed jobs, it will be necessary to employ new employees as the new institution will take an active role as a creditor in the bankruptcy process. I therefore support the Final Proposal for a Law on ensuring the protection of workers' claims in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13576	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I would like to inform you that within 18 hours and 53 minutes, it is time to report a ten-minute hearing and in accordance with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure. We will continue the debate of the distinguished representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13577	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, at first let me say in short, essentially one short definition of bankruptcy. The bankruptcy is an important court case, a legal case against the property of a debtor who has become insolvent. The property of the debtor becomes a bankruptcy mass from which the debts to the creditors are settled. It can be initiated by creditors of a debtor's company or only by a debtor's company. Now, what's the problem? It has often proved in practice that during bankruptcy, creditors have nothing to collect their claims from, so in this sense, workers like those who seek money for the work they have done. In that sense, any protection of workers and the possibility of exercising their right to earned wages or earned money that they have earned in the company that went into bankruptcy I support. And in this respect, I support the adoption of this law which defines, of course, the type and scope of the rights of workers in the event of bankruptcy, the rights of workers defined at socially acceptable and minimum level, prescribed by certain bodies such as the Agency, is prescribed by the body to implement, that is, the agency that will carry out the entire process of ensuring the rights of workers, the process itself, and the procedure in which workers have the right to ask for that money that they have earned. I have several fundamental grudges as far as this law is concerned. The first is that I think we could take on one experience that appears in European legislation, which is that it does not all fall on the burden of the state or, of course, that the state, after it pays off these fundamental rights that workers have, can then ask for it from companies that are in bankruptcy or bankruptcy, but most often fail to collect anything. And there is practice in the European Union where employers contribute, or participate, all in filling a particular fund from which these claims of workers are then charged. I think it's a more just system and we could have resorted to such a model where I believe that there would then be more resources and more resources that those basic rights of the people who have lost their wages would succeed. In addition, my second observation is that I believe that the amounts that are secured are too low. I think it's good, of course, that we expanded this three-month period, so before the bankruptcy itself, that workers have the right which, by any chance, they were employed within three months of opening their bankruptcy in the employer's exercise of their right. But I think the amounts we've determined are too small. This amount of payment up to the highest minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia for each month for which the worker is not paid the salary or salary fee, I think it is too low. I think we should go to a higher level. It is very likely that the promoter or government had a fence, perhaps the secretary of state could say that this amount would be much higher than the state budget, that it could not be tolerated. I'd like to hear a reason why this level is not, say, an average salary or, or some other amount that would be more acceptable to those who are waiting for the funds they've already earned. Also, other levels mean the highest half of the minimum wage in Croatia in the event that no compensation for sick leave is paid or in the case of unused annual leave, or in the case of compensation of up to one third of the rightful compensation for damages, the pardon is for the damage suffered by the injury at work. So we could put these things on a higher level in my opinion so that workers could make it happen at the first moment when they can from the agency or from the state a certain amount in, from their money that they will then charge the difference from the employer. The second thing that I consider to be a controversial, disputed provision in Article 8(5) where it is spoken in the Agency or defining what its Administrative Council is doing is said to be the President, that the President of the Governing Council may suspend from implementing a decision of the Governing Council which has negative consequences on the financial operations of the Agency. I believe that the Agency, as such a body and financed under this budget law, has the resources provided for in the budget, should not or should not know what activities that would have fallen under this provision so as to ask the question whether it is possible for the President of the Governing Council to suspend the payments of workers on request. So I think that for such a provision there is absolutely no need and I think that the agency should only be one transfer or one that will administratively address those requirements that are rightly coming to her, on her agenda. And in the end, I find it a little unclear when I explain the sources of the resources needed, and it is evident that the funds are coming from the budget. It is said that so far in the Development and Employment Fund, three employees have been doing the whole job, and this is what I see in the last five years about 65 million kuna what the fund has paid in the name of the search for workers whose companies have gone bankrupt. Now it's an increase in my estimate of 30, 40% of the major traffic that will eventually go through the agency and a single body of 10 and 10 employees, respectively, will have administrative costs of 2 million kuna. So it's unclear whether it is, is it because the agency is more legally teamed up that it can be able to charge those claims in the future or what's the reason so I'd like the secretary of state to try me out if it has information to answer that question. In any case, I will uphold this law. I would be happier if it were the higher amounts the state guarantees to workers but here's what it may be, perhaps in practice and in the future we would change things in the law, so we might introduce some of these contributions where employers would, unfortunately, be obliged to pay certain contributions on the basis of which the higher amounts would then be paid to workers who could not exercise their right to the bankruptcy of the employer who unfortunately ended up in bankruptcy with his business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13578	Thank you. And now for the next debate, the distinguished representative, Mr Ante Kulusic, has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13579	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This legislative initiative was launched in order to achieve full compliance with the binding acquis in the negotiating chapter of the 19th Social Policy and Employment. This law regulates the Institute of Alimentary Payments of Workers' Claims in the event of the opening of bankruptcy against the employer. The rights of workers shall be ensured at a socially acceptable minimum level by type and scope, while the remaining part shall continue to be implemented in the bankruptcy procedure. Unpaid salaries for the last three months prior to the opening of the bankruptcy or before the opening of a working relationship, outstanding benefits for sick leave, benefits for unused vacation, half the maximum amount of the prescribed severance bill, a third of the legally awarded compensation due to sustained injury to work or occupational illness. The most important changes made in this draft proposal relate to, precisely, the beginning of the winter deadline for submission of applications in such a way that it is the day on which the bankruptcy administrator acknowledges the claim at the test hearing in the bankruptcy proceedings and does not slow it down by any bankruptcy believer. The application of the claim insurance to workers of a foreign employer established in the Member States of the European Economic Area is extended. Job insurance operations are set aside from the Fund for Development and Employment. It shall be arranged for the payment of secured workers' claims through the employer's dedicated account in a bankruptcy that is protected because it is not subject to the regular distribution of the assets of the creditor. An obligation to open a special account of a creditor shall be prescribed in all cases where the same has employees. I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13580	Thank you very much. We are continuing with individual discussions and I would like to ask Ms. Nada Cavlović's distinguished representative for the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of employer bankruptcy, as stated by the Proposer, harmonizes Croatian legislation with EU legislation on the protection of employees in the event of incompetence to pay their employers. In addition, the material legal protection of workers to whom the employer has not paid material rights based for business reasons or difficulties shall also be governed. In view of the complexity of the bankruptcy procedure for registered and privileged work claims resulting from the date on which the bankruptcy proceedings are opened, it is very uncertain when and whether or not they will be charged. Therefore, this proposal provides for at least one part of their payment, immediately upon recognition, and regardless of the power to resolve the bankruptcy procedure. In any case, it is good that the state assumes on itself the obligation to pay that guaranteed part, meaning that social minimum. However, in Article 17(2) of this proposal, the law does not show that it is not enough to pay off only that the bankruptcy administrator at the hearing recognises this claim. The above article provides that the application for the exercise of the right and the rights laid down in Article 3 of the Law means unpaid salaries, outstanding compensation for sick leave and similar submissions to the Agency or the Regional Employment Service within 30 days from the date on which they were called by the bankruptcy administrator at the hearing in the bankruptcy proceedings and not challenged by any creditor, or from the day on which the decision of the competent court was published that the bankruptcy proceedings would not be carried out. I ask what will happen if any other creditor challenges the claim, and we know that the procedures that are being conducted on these issues are very long. So if it is already known that the opening of bankruptcy puts at risk the social security of workers, at least that's why the proposer says in his explanation that he wants to protect workers' claims at a certain socially acceptable level, then this article should not stand on this condition because this law protects and pays the minimum of labour claims that are certainly far greater. So if the bankruptcy manager has admitted that claim, then there is no reasonable reason to wait with these acknowledged claims if a bankruptcy believer has disputed that claim. Furthermore, I believe that Article 3(2), which determines the height of the individual labour rights, should prescribe the exact level of the insurance payment, rather than prescribing the maximum amounts allowed for individual workers' claims. I believe that this is not good for reasons, because this law aims to ensure that workers' claims are secured at a certain socially acceptable minimum level. Then that should also apply to all workers in any part of the country and regardless of which employer they are concerned. I want to know who and what will depend on the decision on the level of labour rights when we know that the claims of the bankruptcy workers are greater than this minimum anyway, so if we protect the minimum, then he should be at least one for all workers in all bankruptcys in the Republic of Croatia. I also believe that it would be far more acceptable for the rights laid down in Article 3(1) of the Law to be paid in the Republic of Croatia in the month preceding the month in which the bankruptcy procedure was opened, as prescribed by the bankruptcy law, and not for example that the unpaid salaries of workers for the last three months should be the highest to the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia for which the worker is not paid, i.e. the salary fee. I conclude that this bill really does not give them a higher level of protection of workers' rights in bankruptcy, and thus does not provide greater social standards at least in this part of the work rights that I was talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13582	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate reported is the debate of the distinguished representative Nadice Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13583	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is the Law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of employer bankruptcy, as the State Secretary of State said, is not a new law since it does not extend the rights and neither does its scope in relation to the current law that was passed in 2003. This legislative proposal only aligns one segment of Croatian labour and social legislation with EU legislation in a way that, as with all laws that comply with the EU, an element of abroad is introduced. In this case, it is a provision under which the rights laid down in this law can also be exercised by workers of a foreign employer whose head office is in a Member State of the European Union provided that workers have their place of work in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and that the foreign employer is subject to bankruptcy proceedings under the national competent legislation. It is primarily because of this fact that the rights of this law are extended to workers of foreign employers. It was also necessary to provide institutional and administrative assumptions necessary to exchange information with the competent guarantee institutions of the Member States of the European Union when the business activity of the employer extends to two or more Member States. For this reason, but also due to the expected significantly greater efficiency in implementing the essence of the law itself, which is precisely the protection of the bankruptcy of vulnerable social security of workers, this law establishes and introduces a new guarantee body into bankruptcy. Therefore, the Agency for the Insurance of job claims in the event of employer bankruptcy. According to current law, all the procedural rights of workers over whose employer was open to bankruptcy had a Fund for Development and Employment. However, it is clear from the very name of the fund that it is not primarily intended for its primary purpose, and thus by administrative capacity it was not the right address for the achievement of the religious rights of workers, since the activities of the fund were primarily aimed at encouraging economic growth and the creation of new jobs. That the fund has not achieved satisfactory effects in achieving the rights of workers best documented the data, that in the past five years the existing legal solution of the fund has not been able to charge more than 65 million kuna of workers' claims to the shareholders in bankruptcy. Unlike the inefficient fund, the Agency should be far more active and far more efficient in achieving the return of funds paid to workers, and in addition, as I have already mentioned before, it should be actively involved in the international exchange of information needed for the quality of its function. Clearly, all of this will need to employ a little more workers, a dozen of them are assumed to be taken over from the fund, and in the 2009 budget it will be necessary to provide around 2 million kuna. With this legal solution, the state provides bankruptcy workers with the first aid to eliminate the immediate danger of poverty and enables them to wait easier for the rest of their claims and perhaps welcome them in endlessly long bankruptcy procedures. But I have to say that all of this was a late and weak satisfaction to Croatian labour for all the Calvary lived in the 1990s when bankruptcy was a truly massive and extremely traumatic phenomenon, which left a large number of workers out of work, on the road and no way to make their unpaid claims from employers. By 2003, the only legal possibility of achieving these claims was the waiting order of the Bank's bankruptcy law, which would often be completely barren, since the exclusive and distinct creditors, more precisely the banks, and the other creditors from the priority payout lines would most often pick up the total bankruptcy mass. It was a time of entrepreneurial eldorado on the one hand and conversion and privatisation on the other. The time when there was a criminal initial accumulation of capital, which is actually the starting point of decomposition of Croatian citizens to rich elite and poor mass. It was the time of mass establishment of a minimum-capital company, when non-payment of liabilities to the state and to creditors among which the most numerous and at the same time the most unprotected were workers of vast wealth. So, fairies, expensive cars and fat bank accounts protected by clear banking secrets. And there were no bankruptcys even though the Bank Act said it had to be done if the formal reason to launch the bankruptcy was fulfilled, and that was more permanent insolvency. Thousands of entrepreneurs have been insolvent for years and have not launched bankruptcy despite the fact that the Commercial Society Act also provided sanctions for the ineligible launch of bankruptcys, obviously those sanctions were completely ineffective. The companies were exhausted until the end, until the last coin so that at the time the bankruptcy was launched, there was no more money to be paid for the cost of bankruptcy, and where there would be any bankruptcy capital, so that in such cases the court declared at the same time and the opening and closure of bankruptcy, and the millions of outstanding liabilities were paid in full, and who, other, Croatian citizens, or taxpayers, because of their obligations only corresponded to the company's assets, and it was not because it was transferred to private property, spent on the above mentioned villas, cars and exotic travels, and to the private property of the entrepreneurs by no legal means or means could come because it had been transferred to wives, children and all the others further and close relatives. Because they were not run in Croatia in time, in fact, we have a negligible number of bankruptcys with reconstruction, almost all bankruptcys ended with the liquidation of the company, while the bankruptcy managers were at the same time becoming the richest citizens of Croatia. Here, now that all of this is behind us, when the traces are largely wiped out and almost everything is legal and normal, when the state has already been unable to end entrepreneurial exhibitionism, but in its inaction it has actually supported it, now that Europe is making us to edit the state in all areas before it opens its doors, there must be at least a part of the risk of charging workers' claims from bankruptcy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13584	Thank you. State Secretary Vera Babic, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. I thank everyone who participated in the debate. Allow just a few references to the views expressed here, i.e. the comments, to the proposals relating to this bill. The fact is that we introduced the system of protection of workers' claims for bankruptcy in 2003, and that at that time and on that occasion the advantage was given to the introduction of this social security system, and less attention was paid to creating possible new institutions or new infrastructure, a solution was found through the Employment and Development Fund, then it was more important to introduce a system that it was functioning, although we were then aware that it would be necessary to transform the system precisely in the area of infrastructure that supports that system. There were words here from MPs and MPs why through the funding of the state budget to secure alimony funds, why not contribute. As I said, this insurance system is part of the social security system, one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of Croatia is social security based on solidarity. Therefore, it is not so unusual and is not in line with these principles that alimony funds are provided in the state budget. The development of a free market society and the change in ownership structure will certainly lead to the further development of this infrastructure and I believe that the interest of employers in bankruptcy as a mechanism, the economic mechanism, as a mechanism that leads to the construction of larger businesses on the other side, that their interest in the faster and more aggressive payment will go in this direction that we will develop the system and on the basis of employers' contributions, but then it is fair and realistic to expect that an inventory in the existing tax and contribution system will be done in order not to reduce the competitive capacity of the economy. I think that, as far as I understand the debate, that no one really questioned this system, so it's not about having Europe force us on that system, priority or first aid, as the colleague said, so the fact is that we introduced this system when the conditions came to pass. It is not always the existing system in the comparative solutions of other countries, especially European countries, so these are relatively new social security systems, they should be closely linked to bankruptcy. It is important to know that as much as we are in favour of protecting workers' claims with employers who are in bankruptcy that they are not the only workers who are potentially at risk, that other creditors also have their employees who are in the circle who are in difficulty, so it cannot be primarily and up to the highest privileges to protect only employees of that employer in bankruptcy, it must also be taken care of other creditors because it is a very complex and very complex mechanism and it should always be taken into account. I thank everyone once again, Mr Vice-President, since I have been presented with amendments to the Legislative Committee, I use the opportunity to declare on behalf of the Proposer that we accept all the amendments made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13586	Thank you. Legislative committees, European integration, the judiciary? That was the final word, yes. Here's to closing the argument then.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13587	The final proposal for a law on ensuring the claim of workers in the event of employer bankruptcy is an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 119. The debate is closed, amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law. The proposer accepted the amendment committees at the meeting and they become an integral part of the final draft law and are not voted on. I am voting on the final draft of the law on the insurance of workers' claims in the event of bankruptcy by the employer. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 124 votes for and 4 abstentions along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13588	- The proposal for a mining law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 127. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on European Integration, Law, Economy, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Construction and Environmental Protection. State Secretary Tamara Obradovic Mazal will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives, ladies and gentlemen. This proposal for a mining law in the process of accession negotiations in the section relating to Chapter XV-Energetics, the Mining Law, i.e. the need to adopt a new law, was seen in the process of assessing the level of compliance of national legislation with the acquis and in relation to Directive No 22 of 94 relating to the conditions for granting and applying authorisation for the exploration, exploitation of oil and gas, i.e. one word of hydrocarbons. The conditions laid down in the Directive have been adequately applied in this proposal for a mining code and to other types of mineral raw materials. By summing up the most important changes, the most important novels proposed by the Government within the Mining Law can be summed up in the following way. In addition to the new division of mineral raw materials that are adapted to specificities, that is to say, the needs of the Republic of Croatia are introduced by five categories of mineral raw materials. These are energy mineral raw materials, mineral raw materials for industrial use, mineral metal raw materials, architectural building stones as well as mineral raw materials for industrial processing and for construction material production. After this new division of mineral raw materials in accordance with the Law on concessions on which this High House had the opportunity to discuss yesterday, parallel to all the principles, as well as the part relating to legal protection, we withdraw from the current Proposal for a Law on concessions, so the other two most important novels introduced by this proposal for a mining law relate to the need, i.e. the principle of calling for a public tender, both for the authorisation for the exploration of mineral raw materials and to the opening of a public tender for the award of a concession for the exploitation field of mineral raw materials. As you know, the existing applicable concession legislation was issued in that part on the basis of the request made by the interested mining economic operator itself, therefore there was an option for the interested economic operator to submit a request and to grant a concession on the basis of that request. However, the basic principle follows the public tender procedure, so we are also working through the Law on concessions and a link to the Law on Public Procurement on which amendments and additions will be discussed in the course of the agenda. Therefore, the basis of the public tender for research into mineral raw materials and for the authorisation for the exploitation field of mineral raw materials, the public tender and the award of concessions for these two categories is an absolute principle. Even with regard to the economic operator’s claim made, even if the economic operator points out the need for research or for the exploitation field of mineral raw materials, regardless of the request submitted, the public tender will again be the principle of awarding the concession. We are also introducing the obligation to issue a public tender for authorisation also to be published in the Official Journal of the European Community, so in that segment, of course, with a delay. The moment I enter into the membership of the European Union, we will also be bound by these types of concessions, given the cross-border possibility of carrying out such activities, will be published within 90 days and in the Officially Same European Community. We are also entering the segment to increase compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Based on the existing legislative framework, the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials currently stands at 2.6% of the total revenue generated by their sale in the exploitation field. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, What we are changing, what we are introducing in this proposal for a mining law, we are introducing an annual fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and for research consisting of two components. The first fee for the occupied area of the approved exploitation field of solid mineral raw materials, i.e. the surface area of the drilling circles of the hydrocarbon fields as well as mineral and geothermal waters. The fee is paid per unit of area per year, means the monetary amount per hectare per year and represents the income of the Republic of Croatia. We are also introducing a second fee and this fee for unearthed, i.e. for the amount of mineral raw materials recovered, and this fee may amount to or may amount to up to 10% of the revenue generated by the sale of such unearthed or extracted quantities of mineral raw materials in the field of exploitation. This fee, unlike the first fee presented, is divided in a third so that in one third it represents the income of the Republic of Croatia, in the second third it represents the income of the county in which mineral raw material is exploited and in the last third it is the city's income, i.e. the municipality in whose territory the exploited mineral raw material lies. What are the other important novels, or newspapers that we are introducing in this bill? One of the most important is what is, of course, a lot of media follow-up and what we try to prevent, what we try and sanction, which is unfortunately one common and unwanted practice, which is the availability of illegally acquired assets by making it available, i.e. by further selling that additional value, which is obtained by means of a building permit by digging up mineral raw materials most often. It's mostly about gravel, so it's about the added value of what's not covered by the building permit. As you know, such a one-off sale is a highly illegally acquired asset. This bill sets out a very clear treatment of this added value with mineral raw materials that are unearthed in the construction of individual buildings, which are built in accordance with, of course, specific building regulations and we introduce, of course, criminal provisions. What happens to excess mineral raw materials that have been somehow in an airless legal space so far? The excess of such mineral raw materials automatically becomes the income of local self-government units in which the building is built. What we are predicting in this law is also the confiscation of such unlawfully acquired property benefits, which have been achieved by further illegal sale and at the height of its market value. I would also mention that we are creating a unique information system so that we will import all the necessary data related to this activity, and we also commit to economic operators that, when doing their work, they must necessarily employ professionals, of course, to the purpose and safety and quality of the performance of the work. All proceedings under the future Mining Law, therefore, would be transferred to the competent authority of the state administration responsible for mining operations as of 1 January 2011. Here in short, these are in some way the most important highlights of the proposal for a mining law that lies ahead of you. I thank you for your attention and thank you in advance for all your reviews and useful suggestions. I also use the opportunity to thank you for not only a constructive discussion on individual committees, but also for a high degree of positive interest in novels that we introduce to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13590	Thank you. The committees? European integration, legislation, economy, spatial planning and construction, environmental protection? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13591	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, ladies and gentlemen. The National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2008 provides for the adoption of a new Mining Act as the final part of the process of harmonising the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy. The law is harmonised in the part relating to oil and gas with Directive 94/22. The proposal for a mining law prescribes a new division of mineral raw materials adapted to the needs of the Republic of Croatia as follows: energy mineral raw materials, mineral raw materials for industrial processing, mineral raw materials for the production of construction material, architectural and construction stone, mineral raw materials of metal. In the current law, we had a total of 11 actions to be carried out in order to obtain approval for the implementation of mining works, i.e. exploitation, which was the first request for investigative works. The provisions of the proposal for a mining law stipulate that authorisation for the investigation of mineral raw materials is to be issued after the public tender has been carried out. On the basis of existing mining legislation, the procedure for the authorisation of mineral raw materials research was initiated solely on the basis of the request of an interested mining economic operator. The provisions of the proposal for a mining law provide that a public tender for the authorisation for the exploration of mineral raw materials is to be held on the basis of a public call from the authority responsible for mining operations or on the basis of the application submitted by the interested mining-economic operator. The proposal for a mining law also contains a provision for a public invitation to tender for the authorisation of hydrocarbon research by the Ministry of Mines to publish in the Official Journal of the European Community, as the State Secretary said. So the same store is being repeated for approval for the exploitation field. Based on the existing mining legislation, the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials is 2.6% of the total revenue generated by their sale in the field of exploitation. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The provisions of the proposal for a mining law introduce the payment of the annual fee for the exploration of mineral raw materials per unit of the area of approved research space of solid mineral raw materials, i.e. the surface area of the Bushotine circles of hydrocarbon exploration and mineral and geothermal water. In addition to the proposal for a mining law, an annual fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials consisting of an annual fee for the occupied area of the approved exploitation field and a fee for the unearthed quantity of mineral raw materials, up to 10% of the revenue obtained by the sale of unearthed or extracted quantities of mineral raw materials in the exploitation field, shall be introduced. The introduction of a single information system of mineral raw materials of the Republic of Croatia is also required, the treatment of mineral raw materials which are unearthed in the construction of buildings, which are built in accordance with the rules on the construction and criminal provisions in the event of non-compliance with the same, and which has not been clearly regulated so far. The excess of mineral raw materials is the income of local self-government units in which the building is built. It is also prescribed to grant mining concessions for the implementation of mining works and exploitation of mineral raw materials on land particles owned by the Republic of Croatia to the authority responsible for the management of state property for the purpose of ensuring the cost of recovery of mining works of unearthed areas to the relevant payment instruments at the cost of recovery determined by the verified mining project. Stronger measures and criminal provisions have been prescribed in order to combat illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, the confiscation of illegally acquired property benefits achieved by illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials is prescribed for mining and economic operators to hire professionals with the aim of quality and security of the operation of mines. Based on the existing mining legislation, the procedures in connection with research into the exploitation of mineral raw materials for the production of construction materials were within the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration in the units of the regional or regional self-government responsible for mining operations, i.e. the City Office of the City of Zagreb, responsible for mining operations. The provisions of the proposal for a mining law since 1 January 2011 move those transactions to the responsibility of the Ministry of Mining. Since I come from an area that deals with the exploitation of stone, that is, a settlement where all the population deals with the exploitation of stone, I will be free to give a few suggestions since this is the first reading. So we have only one inspector based in Split for all of Dalmatia. So there's a need to strengthen inspection. The inspector controls only and exclusively means legal persons who are in the legalisation process let's call it that. So we also have a large number of persons who are involved illegally in the exploitation of stone and, of course, they are not in the system, or are not being supervised by inspectors. I think we should also simplify the procedure in the research procedures. It may not be necessary to call public debates in research they are repeated later in the exploitation, i.e. in the exploitation. So the procedure takes too long. I said it was necessary to do a total of 11 shops before. I'm not going to list all these stores as much as we do, but it usually takes up to 3 years for a man to get approval to do mining work, right? Furthermore, I think it would be necessary to allocate the exploitation field for the trial exploitation, because now we have a lot of confusion on the ground, namely, obtaining a concession for the exploitation field, a concessionary cannot still exploit a mining treasure without a mining concession, i.e. the confirmation of a mining project, which is the same thing, and on the ground, the situation is that an exploitation of the mineral wealth means based on a concession on an exploitation field, right. Before calling for a concession for investigative works, I think it would be necessary to minimally go out on the ground and determine what the situation is on the ground, because there is an explosion on black and when a concessionary gets a fixed space, a devasted terrain finds it and it is essentially punished for what he found on the ground. I also think that it would be necessary to coordinate obtaining permits with other ministries. For example. According to the spatial plan, we are predicting a location for investigative actions and in the text provisions, we say that if we find that there are mineral reserves in that field, then we can initiate a procedure for obtaining exploitation. Now, the parties and the devices, but in the process of obtaining a local authorisation, means the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction is a real problem and does not issue a local permit, because, of course, it is not a field intended for exploitation, but for research. In any case, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13592	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13593	Honored Mr. Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. According to Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of natural resources such as water, land, airspace, mineral treasure, land, forests and other natural resources that the law stipulates are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. The Mining Act, which is now in force, states that the mineral treasure is good for the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection and is owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is more than clear that mining represents a specific activity that is inevitably in contact with a number of areas and laws relating to spatial planning, environmental protection, water, agricultural land and the like, and is not exclusively within the competence of the Ministry of Economy. The fact is that the non-compliance of these laws and mutual exclusions in some cases and some provisions create problems and disputed situations which result in a whole series of disputes. In the design of spatial plans, the most common case is that mineral raw materials, i.e. the potential research and exploitation fields do not draw and this is due to the unexploredness and indetermination of potential beds and mineral raw materials. However, since spatial plans cannot be changed on a daily basis, it is impossible to change the purpose of a specific location from the one provided for in the spatial plan. Furthermore, in certain cases spatial plans are envisaged and an investigative space is envisaged, but not the possibility of exploitation. In this case, the question of the purpose and justification of costs and investigative works is raised, and who will bear them. On the other hand, there are cases where no existing exploitation fields exist in spatial plans, which are easily deleted due to the proposal of a few local powers in public debates or in the process of supplementing spatial plans at the will of various lobbies, which opens the possibility of corruption on a wide scale, particularly in the political one. In this context, it is necessary to mention once again the destruction of the Croatian Urban Institute that was simply destroyed in the transformation and privatisation despite the fact that it was done in a respectable and professional manner in a scientific institution which is on the defender of preventing the devastion of Croatian space, and of natural and cultural landscape. The question arises whether it was destroyed on purpose, precisely so that the construction and ina mafia could master Croatian space, and it had no interference with natural resources as well. Let's also remember cases where the state itself is doing its so-called. higher goals, priority goals and interests have enabled some to take various suspicious actions, e.g. in the construction of certain roads, for example, by the Croatian Armed Forces' engineering units without respect for legal procedures, which resulted in and left untreated wounds not only on the state budget, but also on the basis of unsanitary seines along the route of highways in which waste was later deposited and littered with vermin and mosquitoes. The budget damage cannot even be estimated, as transactions often went through the phantom companies of the type "RH Alan", which itself had a budget higher than the culture ministry and the science ministry's budget combined. In order to address such situations today, we have a certain reregulation, e.g. in this bill of law. This raises the question of what is the difference and what is the approval of the exploitation field and the location permit when it is essentially documents that have the same purpose. Approval for the exploitation field shall be granted by the Ministry of Economy or the Office of State Administration in the regional self-government unit depending on the type of mineral raw material, and the local authorisation shall be issued by the State Office in the county, or the Office of the City of Zagreb, responsible for spatial planning operations in the area. Consequently, some actions are doubled, i.e. not recognised by the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction for the approval of the exploitation field. According to the latest data in the 2006 Atlas of Mining of the Republic of Croatia, as many as twenty-three types of mineral raw materials were exploited in 647 approved exploitation fields and the mining activity was carried out by a circus of 350 commercial companies and craftsmen from registered tens of thousands of employees. According to monetary value, the largest proportion of production for the period from 98 to 2004 was the technical and construction stone, 56%, the architectural and construction stone 22%, and sand and gravel 16% and the carbon clay 3%. According to volume, this is about 12 million cubic meters for the technical and building stone and for the architectural and building stone about 65 thousand cubic meters. As is apparent, the most significant production value in Croatia is mineral raw materials used mainly in the construction industry. Therefore, it is clear that without mineral raw materials and there is no construction of roads, houses, economic and other infrastructure facilities, there is neither their maintenance nor any significant share of industrial production. On the other hand, mineral raw materials fall largely into non-renewable natural resources or non-renewable resources, which is why extreme care should be invested, mar and strategic approach to their use for rational management and long-term provision of reserves for the needs of society and future generations. Also, the exploitation of mineral raw materials and especially stone often has a fatal effect on the landscape. If, according to the legal basis, the protection of mineral raw materials is compared to other goods of the Republic of Croatia, then they are unfortunately at least protected, although in view of their importance and their renewable character they may have a greater value than other natural goods in one area. It should therefore be pointed out that as regards the article in this proposal for a law defining mineral raw materials in the present version, the sequence of the use of mineral raw materials also meant their value order, so it was easy to identify which raw material of the higher order was in any form possible, but it is not now done. The question arises as to who and under what criteria will evaluate what is the raw material of the higher order. It should also be noted that, at today’s level of technological development, the adverse effects of mining can be reduced to the least possible extent by modern technological processes, such as noise, dustiness, seismic effects, etc., especially by means of explosives. Let us mention some more of the problems and unresolved issues of this bill. Article 6 defines mining operations within the meaning of this law as all works carried out for the purpose of research and exploitation of mineral raw materials as well as works on the rehabilitation of mining works, excavating areas after the completion of research or exploitation of mineral raw materials. However, not the activities that are happening in real life which, in practice, have an irreversible effect on non-renewable natural resources. These are the editing and re-use of abandoned exploitation fields, surface spears, caves and other purposes, storage and disposal of hydrocarbons into underground geological structures and abandoned mines and abandoned mine pits and rooms, storage and disposal of waste material into underground natural objects and abandoned caves, drilling mines to break through the path of infrastructure facilities in low construction and other activities, and dig up building pits in high construction, destroying certain objects by explosives, building tunnels and underground spaces during excavations and setting up the primary building. Article 7 provides for a way to collect and store geological, geochemical and geophysical data collected in researching mineral raw materials but does not specify the mechanisms for which and within what time it is required to deliver and the data to be collected in the Croatian Geological Service database at the Croatian Geological Institute. It is worth mentioning that in this way the doors of various abuses are opened and unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia is also in the process of conversion and privatisation of the state has easily given up already existing extensive databases on the Croatian geological underground by handing them over to private hands by privatising certain strategic and research scientific companies. Article 14 does not make it clear what is meant by a public call and in which case that variant is activated. Article 15 does not make it clear which areas for which there is no obstacle to research in the existing spatial planning documentation. In practice, the example is that the proposal in the process of amending and supplementing the county spatial plan, to enable research and possible exploitation in all areas of the county that have no special purpose, construction, tourism, energy etc. and that this proposal was then smoothly rejected. In Article 19, it is unclear what is the micro-location of a mining facility and which are mining facilities for which no construction permit is required and which regulation is prescribed. This formulation is constantly being passed through the law and it is not possible to bring in sublegal acts that regulate it. In Article 33, which is precisely the result of the sale of unexploited quantities of mineral raw materials in the non-exploitation field, as determined by the value of the unearthed quantity of mineral raw material if, for example, the company uses all the mineral raw materials in its production of final products, such as cement, lime or bricks. In Article 34, if mineral raw materials are to be used rationally, whether more mining concessions are still needed for the same exploitation field and for different raw materials. Article 51 is one of the most controversial articles. It is absurd to judge applicants at the end of the whole procedure when they have already spent considerable resources. What if the verdict is not positive? In this case, the concession can be awarded to someone else which opens up quite a space for malfeasance. Let's get this over with. It is a necessary law that must improve the mining activity of this mineral raw material to at least the same level of protection against other good RHs because they currently have the least protection and in this context this law should make a significant step towards prescribing the way in which certain natural resources are evaluated in an area without which there is no adequate protection and there is no strategic approach to their rational use. In improving the text of this proposal for a second reading law, it would be more important to listen not only to the voice of our representatives in this debate but also to the voice of the profession. associations, for example, Croatian mining engineers, even if that means third reading. The SDP will support this bill for a second reading, of course, with a request to respect these considerations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13594	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament would now interrupt the session, continue tomorrow at 9:30 at this point. It's the first tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. Mrs. Mariana Petir on behalf of the HSS Club. Afterwards Mr. Zeljko, representative Željko Vincelj, Club of HNS Representatives and on behalf of the IDS Club Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić afterwards and then individual debate. And after that, on the agenda, all those points are on the agenda. So a sequel tomorrow at 9:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13595	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We move on to the proposal of the Mining Act, that's first reading, P.Z.E. No. 127. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. First reading is, then, the law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Law. ... I'm sorry, then, we're just continuing the debate, because this agenda item was already open last night. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we're moving on to the clubs. And she's the first Ms. Mariana Petir on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13596	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Discussing the Mining Act, we can say that the stone is all around us, not only in roads, buildings, but in traps, in pills, necessary in agriculture as mineral fertilisers. In Croatia there is a long tradition of stone processing and our Brač stone is well known. The stone buildings are a feature of our construction traditions such as the Sibenik Cathedral and of course we are all proud of the Zagreb Cathedral whose tower is at the height of the 30th in the world and this is the same building built of stone. There are also those in the people who say they have a stone heart, most of them in politics, and the concession for exploiting that stone would certainly not have been requested by any citizen of our beautiful. Whether Vlado Rabbit had a stone heart or not, time will tell. The master of economy from Radovans near Velika failed to make his dream come true. His wish was to build an airport in his home village so football clubs from around the world could prepare for the Kamen-Ingrad stadium, which counts as many as 7,000 seats as the entire municipality has. A little higher stadium is the controversial quarryes of Velicanka 1 and Velicanka 2. Number two is within the borders of nature park and it is the largest illegal quarry in Croatia and permanently destroys national, natural and archaeological treasures. In September 2004, the state mining inspector banned the work of the disputed quarry as in February 2005, former Director of the Stone-Ingrad of Mr. Vlad Zec, with the help of some of us well-known parliamentary representatives, the Stonestone of Velicanka 2, was launched by the mining inspector, not more or less. The company Stone-Ingrad has never received the conditions of nature protection from the competent state ministries, since it digs up a stone in a protected part of nature and a mining concession on the basis of which the quarry has been unearthed has been issued on the basis of an invalid and non-existent location permit. This example is unfortunately not lonely in Croatia and is increasingly unsustainable to use natural resources. We are a small country, which, above all, is based on a preserved environment, and by destroying that environment we literally drink the branch on which we sit. This category of unsustainable use of natural resources certainly includes gravel and quarryes, i.e. the use of minerals by excessively exploiting them in a particular area. In particular, it should be pointed out that in Croatia quarryes are practically not rescheduled and most of them do not have an adequate permit. As far as gravel is concerned, the problem is a dual problem, especially worrying about gravel from river troughs that lower the level of groundwater, thus drying out surrounding forests, but also about gravel in water protection areas where gravel is produced, which are then inappropriately in accordance with good Croatian practice, delaying waste and polluting groundwater. Article 5 of this Act brings one newspaper, therefore, it undertakes to adopt a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials, which we at the HSS Club welcome, we consider particularly good, since in this way long-term planning is planned for the management of these important treasures. What we would like to suggest, given that Article 5 states that the Government brings this strategy, the proposal of the HSS is that the strategy should be discussed and adopted by the Croatian Parliament, as is the case with other strategies. The mining law that is now in the first reading introduces many positive newspapers, including an increase in the fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and this is an important step in the evaluation of natural resources. In our opinion, however, it is necessary to strengthen inspection supervision because of illegal exploitation of stone and gravel, and this will not solve any law but the capacitation of inspection services. This law introduces a mandatory public tender for the award of concessions for the exploitation or exploration of mineral raw materials. Even when the concession was requested by only one business entity. We think it's a good thing that there's an increase in the exploitation fee from 2.6% to 10% of the revenue generated from the sale of raw materials. The news is that for a third of the fees goes to the state, county and city budget or municipal budget. Since the introduction of this fee for entrepreneurs is an increase in costs of 7 times, we are interested in providing data on how much money it is, and how much money it will receive for municipalities and cities in which the quarry is located. There is also a fee for a busy area and the news is that the unearthed and later sold surplus raw materials dug up by the construction of a new building will belong to local self-government. Problems and disputed situations related to the exploitation of mineral raw materials arise, of course, because of the discrepancies of a number of laws with which mining is a specific activity in contact, and these are laws relating to spatial planning, environmental protection, water, agricultural land, construction and the like. It is also common that the design of spatial plans does not draw potential research and exploitation fields and in some cases existing fields for which legal solutions exist because they are simply deleted because of the interests of different groups. There is a small number of areas of work where there is as much strained corruption as there is in the area of exploitation of mineral raw materials. It is, of course, the most effective at local level, although it has also infiltrated certain offices at national level. It is not exclusively about the monetary form of corruption but primarily about local political powers such as nepotism, vip connections, unfounded promises and similar methods that enable the exploitation of natural wealth, forest, water and other resources. An excellent example of this work is 600 quarrys in Croatia, 200 of which are within protected areas. The most famous is, of course, the example of Velicanka's quarry, which included senior state officials and foreign construction firms within the Papuk Nature Park. But the example of the papal quarry is not lonely, there is the destruction of Medvednica, Velebit and other locations including gravel on the Drava. The problem of the extraction of gravel in Zagreb and associated destruction of natural water filters has been updated in recent months, and this has peaked due to the construction expansion in Zagreb and the surrounding area. In the area of Zagreb and Zagreb County, more than 170 million kunas have been stolen in the last five years. By 2005 an illegal exploitation of stone materials in the city of Zagreb was placed on the market at around 150000 cubic metres per year. There's a number of illegal sequins, they're photographed. One grandmother showed reporters a list of registration plates of trucks that drove illegally excavated gravel and nothing happened. Only two inspectors will continue to visit hundreds of seines in Zagreb, Zagreb, Karlovac, Bjelovarska and Sisak-Moslavina County. The citizens will continue to report what is being done. The courts will not continue to resolve cases due to heavy evidence. Entrepreneurs will continue to argue with a smile on their faces that there has been a small misunderstanding about concessions for exploitation. It's amazing that non-shaling towards damage to the state and nature, because five mining inspectors can only chase illegal seines like Don Quiote on windmills. Except entrepreneurs who dig illegal gravel didn't pay 2.6% to the state. After all, it's hundreds of millions of kunas. They didn't pay a tax on the sale of mineral raw materials. By digging themselves, they damaged a layer that protects water. Then they also earned by renting holes to throw municipal and construction waste into it from numerous construction sites. Nor did they pay the tax on that profit, and they additionally poured waste into the water layer of various compositions, which the rainwater will wash and pollute over the next hundred years. If he doesn't react to such a multiple violation of the law, I don't really know what he should react to, because it's not in vain in law for illegal exploitation of a criminal offence for which he goes to prison, and our courts keep treating him like a violation and charging the fines paid by one truck. This law certainly represents a positive shift in the introduction of order in the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and whether there will be sufficient will and capacity to implement it depends on all levels of government. The HSS Club will support the adoption of the Mining Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13597	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Željko Vincelj. Here you go. I'm sorry, there was one correction to the incorrect assumption. Excuse me. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13598	Mrs. Petir mentions the heart of a stone in people who do politics. It's an incorrect quote to me, but now that you're in power, you can show one caring mother's soul and when it comes to quarrys and pebbles and welfare and housing and oil and wages and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13599	Thank you. Mr. Vincelj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13600	Dear President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Mining and exploitation of mineral raw materials everywhere in the world is also a basic industry. It is not beautiful and pleasant anywhere, but it is necessary and extremely important, because all industry would stop if it stopped the exploitation of mineral raw materials for just a few days. Mining provides raw materials for overall civilizational progress and national security of states. Mining is an economic branch that creates new values and promotes the work of a whole range of other production industries. Mineral raw materials represent the basic natural resource of the Republic of Croatia by the forest, water and agricultural land. Beds of non-metallic mineral raw materials are situated mainly in mountain areas and the Adriatic coast of Istria, Dalmatia, Dalmatia, Lika and Gorski Kotar. Thus, both for the development of tourism and significant for karst phenomena and drinking water potentials. Mining works have multiple environmental impacts most often manifested through the permanent change in morphology of affected terrain and occasionally less, more unpleasant or dangerous phenomena such as noise, dust, seismic effects of mining and others. Field changes due to mining work usually have an impact on the harmony of landscapes. But they can also have an impact on environmental safety. Although in Croatia there are no more mines in classical terms and the only company that digs underground and this architectural and construction stone is the Pazin mining stone, i.e. the exploitation of mineral raw materials deals with more than 350 companies and craftsmen who employ over 8,000 workers. If these raw materials are added, it is a total of about 600 companies with more than 18000 employees. Croatia is rich in non-metallic mineral raw materials, and exploitation reserves are sufficient in most cases for at least 20 years of production. And a much larger supply becomes both architectural and construction stone and a technical and building stone. The raw materials to be extracted are primarily intended for production in glass, ceramic, cement, fire, brick, and construction industries. About 80% of the production is used as reproductive material in construction, food, chemical and methampering industry, and the rest of the products and goods are used extensively. A special group with smaller supplies represent energy mineral raw materials, such as oil and gas, which are less and which are classified as strategic energy. Unfortunately, data on oil and gas supplies in Croatia differ from document to document, so we note that gas supplies to the INA Administration at the end of 2005 are 40 percent higher than data in the Ministry of Economy, and oil supplies are as high as 80 percent higher than the Ministry of Economy. Oil stocks according to the INA claims at the end of 2005 are more than twice as high as the mineral raw materials management strategy claimed two years ago for the Ministry of Economy developed by the Faculty of Mining and Petroleum Geology, but this strategy has not yet been accepted by the government, nor has it seen the light of day here in the Parliament. A built but yet unacceptable strategy for the management of mineral raw materials also opens the eternal dilemma that was before chicken or egg. Of course, it is a professional logic to first adopt a strategy, i.e. a vision and concept of a mining system, and then to go to the adoption or harmonisation of mining regulations. This is how we have the first law, and we'll bring the strategy later. It doesn't make sense and it's not justified. The continued growth in production and income in this economic sector is due mainly to domestic consumption due to large infrastructure projects, as well as exports to other markets primarily glass, cement, ceramic products, architectural construction stone, mineral wool, brick products. The existing Mining Law dates back to '91. The year, and the latest changes had occurred in 2001. This new Mining Act represents final alignments with European legislation and addresses the important issues of the functioning of this strategic state activities of research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, the payment of compensation for this, the procedures for issuing the necessary approval, permits and concessions, the information system and others. According to the current law, the paper mentions a provision whereby the authorisation to investigate the exploitation of mineral raw materials will also be granted to foreigners based in the European Union countries, as well as a change in the amount and method of calculating the fees for the operation of the exploitation. The current charge of 2.6% of the revenues generated by the sale of mineral raw materials will thus be increased to 10% under the new law, based on the government's decision. The compensation under the new law will be shared between the state, the county and the city or the municipality, so one third each. Countys and cities, i.e. municipalities, will benefit from the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials for economic development and the protection of the environment and nature. It should be said that these old fees are at our place and 10 times lower than the usual ones in the world, and this new law is about approaching our fees to the world. Here we also have a proposal to share the concession fee only between the county and the municipalities or the city. The state will not fail if it does not collect a third of those revenues and would not show that it cares about greater autonomy and the strength of the local community. There's another reason why the state shouldn't take that third for itself. Namely, if the percentage of the fee is below 8% of the municipalities or the city will get less with one-third than it is today. However, in addition to this fee for unearthed quantities of raw materials, there is also a fee for the busy area of the exploitation field. Logics and motives for introducing such a fee are explained by the fact that many concessionaires reserve much more space with an exploitation field than is objectively necessary and possible in view of the raw material bed, so such compensation would demotivate them in that sense. But I ask the question does the ministry know how to calculate such a commitment to the concessionary on this basis in practice? In addition to this dubious method of determining the fee according to the formally occupied surface of the exploitation field, concessionaries warn of the non-compliance with the time limit on which a mining concession can be obtained, which may be up to 40 years with a short period of service rights over the land on which it can be exploited for the longest period of 5 years. This is, of course, incompatible with the long-term strategy of any concessionaire and, for example, what happens is that legal quarrys also operate against the law, waiting for more than a year to regain their right of service. Since the laws on mining, water, forests, agricultural land, spatial planning, environmental protection and others are being beaten in this area, there are frequent cases of non-compliance with these regulations, but also the actions of the state institutions responsible for each of these sectors in particular. Despite all the good that it represents and brings mining and exploitation of mineral raw materials, perceptions and activities in the public is generally negative thanks to the media presentation of negative actions and the consequences of illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, primarily through quarrys and river gravel. More than 95% of the total illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials is a building stone, sand and gravel. We will all agree that illegal quarryes and seines endanger the lives, health, property of people, destroy nature and archaeological sites, and cause huge damage to the state budget, that is, the local community that would pay those fees for use that quarryes and gravel are legal. According to some data on protected areas of Croatia, Žumberak, Plitvice Lakes, Velebit, Medvednica, Učka, Papuk, Kalnik, Risnjak, Mljet is registered 92 surface baths of stone, and there are another ten percent. There is no documentation of the quantities obtained from the spears, and there is no example of the recovery of the spears after the exploitation. In many abandoned spears, it continues to be exploited illegally occasionally. And so far, the law is clear, all you have to do is record a thief, an illegal stone exploiter, punish him with cash or jail and force him to remand the devastated land. But is that so? I'm afraid not. The report by the State Inspectorate in the work of mining inspectors in 2007 said that they had 405 inspections, e.g. 62 misdemeanors, as well as 25 statutes for offenders, that they had 12 decisions for criminal acts, but also 9 statutes for the same. Over the past 4 years, the total value of illegally exploited mineral raw materials has been around 600 million kuna. We're only talking about recorded values of inspection services, not those values they haven't seen and recorded. Inspectors say that illegal stone exploitation in Croatia participates with 24% of total stone production. We must acknowledge and give strong criticism to the Croatian executive authority who has shown her own credibility by allowing the exploitation of stone, gravel and sand to performers of highway construction without mining concessions. None of the two hundred quarrys were recovered, and further excavations in quarrys are no longer controlled. We've been ruined by landscapes, roads, forest roads and local roads, changed habits of the local population, we've been stolen from the mines, and we've all paid very well for the performers instead of paying us. The illegal seines, especially on the Sava on the Drava, are a special story, mainly because of the consequences that this dirty work can have on our lives because it endangers essential natural good and need, drinking water. Neither the number of illegal seines, nor the pictures and license plates of a gravel truck are enough to prevent it. Why? Because that's what some powerful men obviously don't want. Why won't they? Not because of the beautiful eyes of thieves, the exploiters of gravel, but because of the benefits they have from them, from him. Hundreds of millions of kunas end up in the private pockets of thieves, let's not forget that they're the most respected people in our community, and we're poisoning ourselves with drinking water because of the disturbances in the watershed and the various garbage that appears in the holes after the gravel is driven away. They say the Zagreb plumber endangers at least 169 wild garbage dumps and 26 illegal seines. Is that why we're going to have to drink water from plastic bottles in stores soon? Isn't it terrible that only 2 mining inspectors were in charge of monitoring the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the area of Karlovska, Bjelovarska, Sisak-Moslavina, Zagreb County and the city of Zagreb in 2007. According to the Penal Code, the exploitation of mineral raw material without a mining concession is a criminal offence for which fines or prison sentences are prescribed for up to 3 years, and if the work is committed in a particularly protected area of nature, the sentence is up to 8 years. For the past three years, however, no sentence has been passed with the sentence of imprisonment for the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials. It concludes, the Croatian People's Party club will support the Mining Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13601	Thank you. On behalf of the club IDS, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13602	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is something I will say about the very proposal for a mining law that is in front of us in the first reading and which is in line with one part of the legal acquis of the European Union, in the other part I would say that it would be good to bring this law into line with the good practice of other European countries with the positions and proposals of the profession, above all, starting from Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which regulates the use of ore treasure for the protection of the Republic of Croatia. So I would especially point out, because I don't think that the special protection so far has enjoyed this ore treasure I would say because of the ineffectiveness of the inspection itself, but also because of the unquality legal regulations. I would refer briefly to Article 5 of the Law itself, where it is regulated that the basic document is a strategy for the management of mineral raw materials. The strategy brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is normal that we do not have it and on the basis of this county strategy they bring in mining geological studies. What is basic and what should be established in the strategy is a rational and meaningful and effective use of mineral raw materials. Here's a fundamental question: Did we use mineral raw materials rationally, meaningfully, effectively so far? Most of the time, I'll look back at the stone exploitation. I don't think so. I do not think that we can apply good practice in that part of the other European countries, because the other European countries of Europe that we are seeking have significant or strong restrictions in opening new exploitation fields, and with us, the approach to this law and other laws is extremely liberal. And what happens to us is the following segments that the strategy needs to determine are environmental security. Already, my predecessors have said as far as environmental protection is concerned, more or less, as a rule, that all companies and crafts that exploit mineral raw materials tend to leave nature devastated. I speak as a rule because we have honorable exceptions. And for that very reason, I think it's worth taking further steps in this part, because I don't think only the Ministry of Economy but other ministries, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and in one part the Ministry of Finance needs to coordinate to see what additional measures we can put into this law and other laws. Because surely what is happening, and I will say in space, especially in the coastal area, and even in Istria, we have to say the intense export of crushed stone or building technical stone that is exported to other countries, I will say the European Union. So we know what that means. This does not mean a stone that has been finished, processed, but it is a crushed stone that moves into ships and exports precisely to those countries that have introduced strong restrictions. So we're doing one damage to the devastation of our space, not the unearthed fields, or the exploitation fields, and I think we need to do an extra step here. I would like to mention the Brač stone here, I will certainly mention the Istrian stone that lies on many to say, world and squares, starting from China to America and certainly companies that do such exploitation, and one of them is "The Stone" Pazin with underground rock digging. They should be commended, but certainly many of those who do, I would say, and the illegal exploitation of the stone should certainly be prevented through a more restrictive approach and, in this law itself, prevent such a kind of exploitation of the stone. The second part of which I would like to look at is Article 33 of the Law, which provides that the annual fee for the exploitation of mineral raw materials on the one hand is to be paid on a busy surface and that is to say, the income of the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, is to be paid on the unearthed amount of mineral raw materials which may amount to up to 10% of the proceeds resulting from the sale and this fee belongs in thirds according to the proposal of the law to the Republic of Croatia, the County, or the municipality and the city where the exploitation is made. Here I would like to be asked to explain to me what this revenue means by selling, because the fact is that so far especially where a building stone or a similar ore is used in processing, the accounting value which is significantly less than the sale means some market sales of the mineral raw materials themselves and then that compensation is symbolic which is certainly unacceptable and I think that the draftr of the law should either by regulation or based on certain market indicators also determine the elements to determine the price. Secondly, I suggest that compared to the bill, the fee on the unearthed amount is divided in a way that 60% belongs to the municipality, the city in the area of exploitation, 20% of the county and 20% of the Republic of Croatia. Why 60% of the city and the municipalities? So the reasons are that there's an exploitation field in this area, right there in this area is a devastation of space, there's a devastation of roads, noises, dust, meaning all the negative consequences that one such exploitation field normally has to do with surface spears, and most of it I'm talking about construction, or technical stone having an impact on a specific city, the municipality. On the other hand, I propose to add to this article that the Republic of Croatia is setting up a Mining Rehabilitation Fund aimed at part of the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, which would be used as a means for the recovery and recycling of the exploitation field during and after the completion of the work. As far as the Labour Rehabilitation Fund is concerned, we meet this fund in neighbouring Slovenia. The fund is charged with funds collected from the compensation for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. In Hungary, we have a Regional Recultivation Fund and a Environmental Protection Fund, where the same fund is being filled from mining rental funds. We also have in the Polish Fund for the closure of mining facilities in which funds are poured from 3 to 10% of profits in other countries that I do not count them, means the Netherlands, Sweden where similar funds have been set up precisely for the recovery of exploitation fields after completion or during the execution of the works itself, and we know that this recovery means the recovery of the pieces of surfaces, spears and technical and biological recovery. Here I think that these proposals can make this bill more important and I would like to ask the promoter to include this mining work recovery fund in the bill. In this direction, we will also submit amendments to make sure that the compensation is distributed in a fairer way, that 60% of these funds remain in the city, the municipality in which the exploitation of mineral raw materials is carried out, and the remaining 40% are shared by the county or the Republic of Croatia, and surely one more restrictive approach in the opening of new exploitation fields, I would say first of all in the part where the stone is exported as a crushed stone, meaning as one raw material. In view of, and certainly I am, and I absolutely support that what is both a duty and a local and regional and a state government to enable our economy whether it is a low construction, high construction or a processing industry that uses stone as a raw material for processing. Also exporting processed stone as a final product to be given priority. I think that exporting crushed stone which is particularly characteristic of the coast for shipping ships is one thing I would say evil for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I can often say that we love our ending so much that we'd rather take it out somewhere else for money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13603	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 10.05, it's been 10 minutes. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13604	Thank you, Your Honor. The proposal of the Mining Law that we are discussing today is an extremely important law and its impact is enormous in all aspects or the foundations on which it rests so often after this speaker called for the concept of sustainable development. This law, but also the whole problem of using and exploiting mineral resources, has a major impact on environmental protection issues, on the issues of economic development, in particular the so-called ". sustainable economic development, but also on issues of social cohesion and social sustainability. It is often forgotten that the reckless exploitation of the mineral wealth that we so often witness in Croatia opens not only painful wounds in the environment but also painful wounds on the social landscape of society. This model is usually manifested by reckless and extreme wealth overnight so-called "night". concessionaires who, in certain cases, wear only masks of people from businesses, but behind these masks hide the face of the blackest crime, organised crime that rests on the range of local and state authorities with tough criminals dressed in business suits. In parallel with such unscrupulous wealth, it significantly reduces and degrades the quality of life of the local population, and sometimes completely impairs or destroys the possibility of any economic development that would allow the social prosperity of the community. Such examples in Croatia unfortunately have many. And the very fact that the new Mining Act will inherit the Mining Act will not bring order into literally the Wild West, which rules the exploitation of mining wealth in Croatia. As a sign of such a situation, I will give an example to the quarry Podjštr near Gospić, who is working happily today, although it violates not one but all the laws that are in one way or another related to the exploitation of the stone. As part of the Podoštra quarry, there is an exploitation field where mining is carried out, there is a crush facility, a asphalt base, all within only 50 metres of the first inhabited houses, although in accordance with Article 59 of the provisions for implementing the spatial plan of the Ličko-Senj County should be 500 metres away. When plants work, residents of the village are exposed to the unpleasant smell of asphalt, dust emissions, heavy noise and cherry and shooting houses. The concessionary used the field so much that he even cut off stairs that would allow for the recovery of this open wound in space as much as possible. This is just one case, and there's a lot of them. Should it remind you of the Stone Ingrad quarry in the heart of Nature Park Papuk? Should we mention daily examples of unscrupulous extraction of gravel from the troughs of our rivers that irretrievably pollute our underground waters, so-called. the strategic resource of the 21st century. The fact is that we are constantly witnessing the urban development of cities that are constantly increasing, and by now 50% of the Croatian population itself lives in them. And this constantly increases the need for building materials that are taken from nature. A more harmful impact on the environment that causes so-called gravel and other practices are almost always large scales. Unfortunately, it is not crucial for such practices that unconscious individuals achieve greater or smaller property benefits, but rather for opening up early water layers, a horizon allowing direct entry of pollution into the underground. Unless there's a real political will to effectively inspect, stop looking through the fingers of different concessionaries and those who illegally extract ore wealth, especially stone, sand, gravel, unless there's a will to conduct thorough and uncompromising investigations, monetary and prison sanctioning crimes that are improperly exploited by mineral wealth to the environment, the local population and the national economy, this new Mining Law will remain just a dead letter on paper, and that would be a huge damage. Not just for our generation, but for all the generations that will come after us. The fact is that the public is not sufficiently sensitive to this problem and is not aware of how much damage they are accomplishing... Unscrupulous exploitation of mineral wealth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of the price of oil derivatives that we charge our vehicles daily to enjoy freedom of free movement, which for more than a century has enabled us precisely fossil fuels, because of the growing oil market crisis, we have become somewhat more aware of the problems of overusing and draining oil, as well as other fossil fuels and even other energy mineral raw materials that are the subject of this law. That's understandable because their quantity and availability depend on the civilization committee of each of us. But we are significantly less sensitive to the problems of exploiting other mineral resources that are classified in this law as mineral raw materials for industrial processing, mineral raw materials for the production of construction material, architectural construction stone and mineral raw materials. Today, we still feel that the sources of these raw materials are inexhaustible and even renewable, and of course they are not, and of course they are becoming faster and faster by the growth of the non-culture of consumerism, we are rapidly crossing no imaginary growth limit. And that, however, was all about the more recent and newer roads and highways stretching so-called. municipal infrastructures and the most remote parts of Croatia, explosions of larger and higher buildings and blocks of buildings or so on on trivial procedures such as fast change of new cooking pots or new porcelain dishes. Discussing the unculture of consumerism in the expansion that, unfortunately, we all love to participate, only at first sight is not the subject of this law. The strict and strategic, thoughtful and planned use of mineral resources, as well as the very careful and limited allocation and control of concessions, as well as wherever possible reuse of the mines used, would indicate that politics has indeed become aware of the importance of the wise use of these natural resources. I therefore hope that this will be defined by the strategy that is in place, according to the proposings, and that in the second reading in the text of the law, the provision under which this strategy is adopted by the Government will be amended, i.e. that we will bring it here as a Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13605	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13606	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a mining law bears the E. mark as an indication of the need to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, but at the same time this bill is not burdened by the urgency of the procedure so that its complexity can be discussed in two parliamentary readings. Such a decision should certainly be welcomed, for it gives us a chance to make this law in the best way possible. So far, the legislation of mining problems has not sufficiently taken care of coordination with other state resources, also in a way that is responsible for resolving decision-making in terms of researching the exploitation of the Republic of Croatia's mining wealth. In particular, not in the domain of spatial planning, it is commendable that this bill is a real step in this regard. The positive newspapers are also shown in a more detailed definition of the division of mineral raw materials, as we see in Article 4, as well as the more orderly tendering for the award of concessions are included in accordance with Directive 22. In the management of the information system, it will certainly make a significant contribution to more systematic monitoring of the situation, especially as compensation for local self-government units is finally and better resolved in favour of which the exploitation of mining wealth and events is located. More significant concerns are visible regarding the monitoring of the course of exploitation, so I consider that even more attention should be paid to the environmental protection segment in which the exploitation of mineral raw materials is introduced into a significant disorder. The approved mining projects should represent a framework of exploitation from which they should not be deviated, especially in the implementation of a permanent recovery of space, even to a level that would deprive one of the concessions if the environmental relationship developed in the direction of degradation. The same applies to the conditionally unquality part of the implementation of the mineral wealth, which, by keeping in the immediate environment of the explotatation field, creates environmentally unacceptable circumstances, instead of starting some secondary production. In this respect, a better inspection service that can be said to be insufficiently effective today would certainly help. When it comes to the exploitation of architectural stone, especially in the world of the unique white Brač stone, it should be pointed out by law to protect that uniqueness that is not even available on the whole of Brač. Exports of raw stone blocks should be limited and exports of stone products should be stimulated. I would add at the end and the need for a better and clearer language expression of the whole text of the proposal of the Mining Law, so that certain formulations could not be read in two sense, and further define the procedures from the idea to the very exploitation of mine wealth. I support the adoption of this law in the first reading with a recommendation for its fine grinding until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13607	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13608	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. With this bill, the Mining Law therefore seeks to achieve the objectives as set out in the introduction here, but in any case in one word, or sentence, it could be concluded that it is intended to achieve this order we will all agree, in a mess in the exploitation of mining wealth. In fact, let's remind ourselves that always with the Penal Code as a particularly socially dangerous act was the illegal exploitation of the mine treasure, so we were until '96. The years they had as a felony, the theft of the mine treasure. And then so-called. Criminal mini reform '96. In a mysterious manner, the criminal act of stealing the mine treasure disappeared. Where I'm from, why do I even mention this, because there's this phenomenon as a message that's basically stealing ore treasure and it's not something socially dangerous, because we don't have any more social property, so that doesn't even have to be protected. It was only with the 2003 Penal Code to re-introduce the crime of stealing ore goods as a particularly dangerous crime in our criminal law. However, here you can see in these fines in the criminal provisions of this bill, which are penalties for illegal exploitation, i.e. in short, for the theft of the mine treasure. Small and minor, given what damage can be done with the illegal exploitation of the mine treasure. If we look at some of the other laws that we are passing, including those concerning all citizens, say as a driver or in some other cases when they are addressed, indeed, all citizens are not just certain groups, that these penalties are enormous and here for one great damage that can result from such unlawful conduct of punishment are truly exaggerating, from 5 thousand to a maximum here are 250 thousand kuna. That's a bad message. It is therefore still as if the government is sending a message that the exploitation of the mineral treasure with these enormous amounts of illegality that is achieved and is not dangerous. Therefore, if the government really wants to send that message, then the penalties should be far greater by handling precisely the damage that such an illegal trainer and an explosiver of the mineral treasure have done. And another thing that seems very important to me is one transparency in awarding concessions. And if we still link this to the recently discussed concession law here, where concessions are presented exactly as secret in the sense that the public will not know again the details of who the concessionaries are, and also those who will have an ore concession, how long it will last because it is written not directly here but it says that this law therefore and those concession provisions with this general law, this is one lex specialis in relation to this concession law apply exactly the Law on concessions. Therefore, the public is seeking, since it is a joint asset, an asset that is publically well-being and therefore needs to be treated and treated in such a way that the revenue from these fees is the revenue of the public budget and it must be transparent. Therefore, if we really want to achieve that strategy with an action plan in the fight against corruption, these are fundamental issues. The approval it gives for the exploitation field of mineral raw materials and which determines the terms of the minister himself, I don't think it's a good way to fight corruption and organised crime because such provisions and conditions and ways at least they should at least be found in the law. And what other colleagues have mentioned, also those who wish to do so legally should be allowed to do so but with all this series of approvals that they must provide and if such approvals go indefinitely, if they are not followed by the General Procedure Act within which such approvals are to be issued or denied, but then give an explanation so that this may have adequate legal protection, then the possibilities for riots remain high. Therefore, here I appeal that these shortcomings are otherwise removed from the good law so that indeed the bill itself will receive its own basic mission to bring order into the illegal exploitation of our mine treasure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13609	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13610	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The connection between Bračana and the stone was best described by Stjepan Puliselić in the song "Bročan i stinja", "On the rock is born, with the Stignon is solved, after it walks, in the rock is... "and the whole house collapses." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because not only are Brač houses built out of Brač stone. Neither did Roman Emperor Diocletian resist him. The cold but still warm Brač stone has remedied the wounds of many objects and monuments torn down and damaged in the Homeland War. This is why the debate on the Mining Law is for me personally and the debate on the future of the entire island I come from because it is clear that Brač stone is not without Brač but Brač would be the same as one of the most developed islands without the Brač stone. The impression of people dealing with the exploitation of the Brač stone is that the law does not simplify but makes it difficult and extends the process of walking the mining concession. The impression is that the law partially and centralises the whole process because, according to the past law, important things could have been done locally and is now for all relevant ministries. The concession for natural persons and technical stone was previously approved by the county, location and building permit for the construction of mining facilities and used permission before by the district office and now according to the new law for all is the competent ministry. Also, I'm not sure that the annual research fee is a good solution. Physical and legal persons who are the holder of the authorisation for the exploration of mineral raw materials and the research process have exclusively the costs, so they do not need to be imposed another imposition. Consideration should be given to applying only those exploitation fields where no exploitation is carried out for the occupied area of the approved exploitation field. That's why you'd be up for the same thing i.e. the exploitation of mineral raw materials paid up to three fees, the one for the occupied area, for the quantity removed and the third for service if the field is on state land. The need for an idea mining project is also questionable because nothing can be done on the basis of it. Mining works are carried out according to the main mining project, which is a major and comprehensive document, which only generates unnecessary costs for the investor, complicates and extends the time of the concession. With regard to Article 51(1) and Article 39(1), (2) and (3), the impact of land ownership on the allocation and transfer of the exploitation field and the mining concession should be precisely defined. The sensitivity of the state and all of us to illegal exploitation is clear. Some of the famous public were also told by predecessors. However, I think that this strict provision on Article 51 is that the provision in Article 51(3) is strict. It may be necessary to mitigate and examine the circumstances under which illegal exploitation occurred and to leave the possibility of awarding a mining concession because who and how, in the event of a non-referencing concession, if only this is the case and one part of the people below dealing with the exploitation of the stone is simply not able to pay debts and fines. It should be possible to work, so debts can be paid out of business and such small businesses are allowed to survive because, according to large companies, the state has always a special sensitivity and I doubt that INAs or any major one would deny concessions or take away concessions for exploitation even in such cases. Namely, the subjects I'm talking about happen to pay various fees without any of them being admitted to the cost. One example is that of working on some exploitation fields in Brac, where nothing should have been done for years because of the lack of spatial plans first of all in the county and then the municipal spatial plan, but here we had to recognise the understanding of the county and local authorities. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. for architectural construction stone should not be increased from the current 2.6% because it is mineral raw material that is exploited with the greatest losses. But it certainly shouldn't reduce the share that goes to the local self-government unit. The budgets of Pucisca, Selca and Nerežista municipalities have a large part of their original incomes precisely from the fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Yesterday we discussed the Law on Areas of Special State Care. It includes a provision whereby 50% of the income from this fee, which is income from the Republic of Croatia, remains local self-government. Since the existence of the Law on Islands does not apply to the municipalities of the islands, I have submitted an amendment to apply this to those municipalities because they will be particularly affected, and in particular these three municipalities, unless such a solution exists either in this law or in the Law on Islands or in the Law of a special nature, areas of special state care. Since the law therefore goes into second reading, I hope that both my remarks and the remarks of the people involved in the exploitation of the stone will be considered, some of them accepted. And Brač and Bracani will continue to be tied to their stone because "the Stignon has been strained and the Stignon has been bound." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13611	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13612	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I think we all agreed during this morning's debate that it doesn't matter whether it's happening in Istria, Dalmatia, in the islands or whether it's about the extraction of gravel by Sava, Drava. There's a lot to say. They need one word to put an end to it. In addition to these fees that have been prescribed by law so far, which are clearly not enough to resuscitate these quarryes, I think we should look for those who illegally exploited all these mines, all those pits, all those quarrys, left behind a wasteland and should make them clear their assets. I think that's where we should go when it comes to this mining law. What's most important on the other hand and nobody has ever talked about before, I dare say that this law is one of the preconditions for us to be able to privatise the remaining shares of the INA. Or the sale of the remaining shares of the INA. In Article 4(1), point 1 immediately and nicely begins with energy mineral raw materials, thus mentioning fossil fuels. These are substances: coal, shale, lignite, brown coal, stone coal. So it goes on: hydrocarbons, oil, gas, earth wax and so on. So this law treats not only stone, but gravel, I don't know, but it treats all other raw materials that are on earth or beneath the earth or below the surface of the sea. Interestingly, to confirm this thesis that this law is one of the preconditions of privatisation of INA, one of the things that is interesting is one of the reactions of the INA itself, I will quote it where they told Deputy Prime Minister Damir Polancec that the Mining Law was sent to them on a short-term basis and they resented that they were not involved in its creation. It is now said in the INA that there is no argument which usually goes with the law and should be found out why the law is passed before the strategy for the availability of mineral raw materials, is in the INA's statement. Exploitation fees are determined exclusively by the Government and so far they have been determined solely by law. The current amount of annual fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in Croatia is about 200 to 250 million kuna for hydrocarbons, so that's the gas oil. That's 150 million kuna. It is therefore necessary to make any subsequent changes to the agreement with the oil economy from the INA. It is clear that I think that the sale of INA or the replacement of those shares of a company that made Bene's note is a war, but in which in such circumstances many have become rich in my court means unnecessary. There's no need to replace those shares. It's unnecessary to sell stakes in INA. Even worse are the thoughts coming from the government on the privatisation of Croatia's electricity industry. Otherwise, this announcement of INA sales led to the fact that the price of their stock on the stock market in the last few days has jumped by 6,16%, but I am convinced that from the exchange of shares there will be nothing but because of the lack of money the government will go to the sale of these shares with a clear blessing coming from the opposition. Finally, you all know that this country has no money to pay workers on "May 3rd" for, say, next month's, monthly incomes, let alone now think about replacing shares. But since the sale of that 25% plus one share of 50% of the management rights was a mistake, it would be a mistake if we went to the INA sale for the rest of the day. However, the law suggests something else that a higher fee for exploitation fees will also lead to the collection of all construction investments. A higher price for raw materials doesn't matter if it's a stone or something else. It will be a higher price for roads, for apartments or other buildings. That's actually the point. Here, in this bill of law, they simply collect these dwarves three times per cubic metre. All of this will eventually be installed in the price of material. In the end, it'll all spill over to that final buyer but I still think that at this point in this country, maybe one of the most profitable and best jobs is to have, say, one quarry and export, I don't know, a rock towards Venice and so on. I don't know about gravel. Why? Because Istria doesn't have them. But part of the wild quarry should really start to be monitored and should also begin to shut them down. To be clear, I don't even agree with the thinking of these various green associations who simply exaggerate in their demands that any such quarry be illegal or should not simply be closed. No quarry, no stone, no road, no factory, no highway, no highway, no bridge, no life. The stone is as Arsen quoted by civilization, so let the compensation be fair, may the compensation be fair, but let the companies that deal with this stone be left alone to work, to export, to create and not make it difficult for them to exist. And it's true. Larges will generally be allowed to work peacefully, but mainly this one discipline will be managed or taken or applied to small companies. It's a brand that runs 367 companies. According to the Croatian Employers' Association, i.e. the Croatian Chamber of Commerce on an annual basis, they generate 11.3 billion kunas of income. It is somewhere at this point about 10% of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. What I would ask is that in future we are given as much company as in this activity, for example the fee for exploiting these ores is paid by individuals in individual European countries, and how much is it usually in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to read now how much it amounts to on certain quarryes in Istria, but really these are the figures I dare say defamation the environments in which these quarrys are located. I am convinced by the part of those people who deal with this exploitation on the other hand, although I am telling them that the prices of these fees are 7, 11, 10000 kuna per quarry of misery, that in the European Union even prices are lower. Why? Because these concession fees in the Republic of Croatia are covered by various additional fees. But what needs to be regulated anyway is an oil exploitation, it's a gas exploitation. Especially in my court, we should sort of regulate that pipeline gas exploitation, and I think those companies that are dealing with this should pay the nearest local environment and a certain fee, although there will probably be nothing in such a foreseeable time, there will be nothing. We at the club will clearly support the law, but let the atmosphere be created so that the quarry can work. But also to monitor that in the event of irregularities, this same quarry can be closed especially if the damage to exploitation is greater than the benefit. Well, then we should lock him up. Let the quarry be watched, let it not blow, let the explosions not destroy the houses, and I know all the other property, roads, etc. which leads to these quarrys. As for the distribution of the concession fee itself, so far it was 2.6%. So far, everything has belonged to the municipality, or city where the exploitation took place. The problem, however, is that we allow companies to determine the accounting price for the stone themselves, i.e. mineral raw materials, which is why we come to the conclusion that these fees amount to 10, 15, 20 or 30000 kuna, which simply offends common sense. Now it will be up to 10% of the sale price and it will be divided into a third, a third, a third, a third, a city, municipalities, states, counties, and the IDS club proposes that it be 60% for the municipality, 40% of the state, or county, and that it goes for the recovery of the quarry. And for the end, just one last sentence. I keep saying I'm against dragon penalties and I am. However, penalties in this law for the exploitation of the mine treasure are indeed miserable and minimal. If we drink two, three beers, and someone catches us, come on, let's make it four beers. Then we'll pay 15 kuna, and if you knock down a hill, then you'll pay 40,000 kuna fees, I don't know who, some inspection, the state. It simply can't get into my head and I think that these fines as some before spoke should in this particular case dramatically increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13613	There was a replica. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13614	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain mentioned Drava about the illegal exploitation of gravel. It may also be due to the fact that it is in the subconscious and a sentence that Croatia is near Drava Mura is also the location and place of the huge illegal exploitation of gravel. As for the total Mura and Drava, the largest debtor in Međimurje remained in Croatia because of the exploitation of gravel for the construction of the highway from Gorican to half way to Zagreb, without a normal and one kuna concession fee. But I also can't understand gentlemen in INA why they're shocked, surprised and said they didn't have enough time to study this provision to increase the concession fee or mining rent as people understand it better and that it will be 10%. It was already clear from the government's programme, and in particular the HSS coalition contract, the HDZ, where it is clearly recorded that concession fees or mining rents will increase to 10% and that is not new. It's the only part of the contract that was prescribed in the bill, and why it insisted on mining rent. But nobody in this country cares about the other rent that's of great interest to local self-government, and that's the hydro rent for electricity-generating facilities that currently account for 0.6% of the electricity price, and here we're going from 2.6 to 10. Of the 150 million kunas mentioned in the mining rent INA paid for oil and gas, let's say in 2005, as much as 45 million kuna ended up in Koprivnica-Krysjeva County, so if you were wondering why this article 33th is rent up to 10%, and the gas will certainly be maximum, then this 45 million in one county which is a quarter of the total paid rent in the Republic of Croatia is clear that in the INA, and even in this Assembly no one should be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13615	Answer, Mr. Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13616	So he says Mr. Lesar doesn't understand INA. However, I understand very much the INA mainly their management, which through this exchange of shares, i.e. the privatisation of this remaining portfolio from the state package, simply wants to save itself under quotes positions in the leading positions and or one of the largest Croatian companies. What I would like is that in future our directors who participate in the privatisation of a particular system it doesn't matter whether it's banking, whether it's THT or INA, after the privatisation is done by law, they must no longer act as function they had until then. Because if they continue to act on it, then they will take more care of the buyer clearly who will keep them in the lead position than what will take care of the state's interest. The same thing happened to us with the Post Office, the same thing happened to us with THT, and I don't list any other big state-owned companies. The directors who privatise the state for the benefit of the state, and for their own account, must no longer be at the head of these companies. I think it's one minimum, I think it should be fair, and I think that's where the future INA privatisation law should go, because without it, the government can neither connect the ina with MOL or OMV nor engage in the sale of the remaining 19% of the company's shares and its portfolio.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13617	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13618	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. According to the latest data in the Croatian mining atlas, the most significant value of production is mineral raw materials used mainly in the construction industry, which are part of non-renewable natural resources, i.e. non-renewable natural resources. If, by legal basis, we compare the protection of these mineral raw materials against other natural goods of the Republic of Croatia, then unfortunately they have the least protection, although in view of their importance and non-renewable character they may have even greater value than other goods in one area. It should therefore be noted what is missing in this law and this is a valuable sequence defining mineral raw materials within the meaning of this law. In the previous version of the law, such a value sequence existed, so it was easy to identify which raw material was the higher order, and then they were able to address any recommendations that were not made in this proposal. So the question arises who and what criteria will evaluate which raw material is higher order. In the design of spatial plans, the most common case is that mineral raw materials, i.e. the potential field of exploitation is simply not plotted in plans because of the unexplored or unconfirmed potential beds. However, since spatial plans cannot be changed on a daily basis, once they have been adopted, it is impossible to determine later the beds of certain mineral raw materials to change the purpose of a specific location from that already envisaged by the spatial plan further, in certain spatial plans, in cases where an investigative space is often not predicted to be exploited. In this context, it also raises the question of the purpose and justification of the costs of investigative works and of who will actually bear them. There are also cases where no existing exploitation fields are drawn into spatial plans for which there are already existing legal solutions which are simply and simply deleted in public debates by the action of certain powerful men, the lobby which leaves the possibility of political corruption and direct, therefore, intervention in space. In this context, it should once again be mentioned the destruction of the Croatian Urban Institute, which was simply wiped out in conversion and privatisation despite the fact that it was a respectable, scientific and research institution of more than a hundred employees, which acted on the defender to prevent the devastion of Croatian space and, of course, the cultural landscape. The question arises whether the institute was destroyed on purpose so that the construction and the mafia could master Croatian space and make spatial plans as if there were 10 million of us and not only 4.5 million. And also to master Croatian resources. As a result, today, in the context of this law, we have various illegal pebbles, quarrys. We have cases that even 5 km of the air line from this respected home we have illegal gravel on the future golf course that doesn't actually have all the necessary permits, and the inspection took years to establish all that at all. By looking at Google Earth, we can look at these wounds in the area not only around Zagreb, but also along the route of some highways because we remember it and the state itself for its so-called so-called. The higher or priority objectives and interests of some have enabled a variety of suspicious actions in construction, road construction and even trusting the works of Croatian military engineering units and all without respect for the legal procedure, public procurement, which has resulted in scarrings on the state budget and also a series of unsanitary seines along these routes. The budget damage is not even estimated because such transactions went through the phantom companies of the type of RH Alan who had it, let's remember in 2000 the budget greater than the budget of the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Culture combined. In order to address only such situations in this proposal, we also have a certain reregulation, and this raises the question of what is the difference and what is the purpose of the approval of the exploitation field and the location permit when it comes to documents that have the same purpose. Approval for the field of exploitation of the issue of the Ministry of Economy or the Office of State Administration in the unit of regional self-government, depending on the type of mineral raw material, and the location permit is issued by the Office of State Administration in the County, or the City of Zagreb. As a result, some workers are being doubled. There are also a few other things that could certainly be improved by this law, let us mention Article 42 who, and how and how it values the quality of an idea mining project for the assignment of an exploitation field, which is, if later, a completely different project solution arises in the field of environmental impact studies and whether the design rights provision applies to it as well as the rest. Article 45 is replaced by the following: Decision, regulation and opinion or arbitration from case to case. As a result, a closer definition of what is important and what is irrelevant should be defined. Of course, this is a commendable law that should be put into another reading, but still needs to be worked on in order to remove all these remarks that have a profession, but should indeed make one coordination with other ministries in order to optimise the impact of the entire Croatian legislation on this extremely important area that can have fatal consequences on Croatian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13619	Thank you. Mr. Representative and Vice President Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13620	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary and Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Mining Law, the law that regulates how we manage something that is exhaustive, which has limited volume of use, and what we have a lasting need, it was a stone as a building material, we are doing this as energy as a means of heating, driving, etc. And it is certainly very important and important that what has happened so far, how these issues have been regulated so far, and what we want to resolve by this law and in what direction. It was not easy for the ministry and the inspections, while the entire areas of Croatia were designated as potential exploitation fields without business plans, without clear definitions, and it was all based on studies, i.e. research showing that there were certain materials there, then it was generally difficult to refuse to give permission for exploitation. And whoever, say, lives in Podravina knows, you take a shovel, you bury 40 centimeters, you find either sand or gravel, and so from Legrad to Pitomaca in layers of 30 to 170 meters, and what are the research wisdom now? It's just that we have to, and we've defined ourselves with spatial plans, and it's good that this law orders what areas, what volumes, and when they're going to work, and they can do exploitation. The second question which the law also specify, determines, is who issues and when and how these permits are and it is good because part of the people realized that this is something that will be a lasting need, and now, regardless of the needs of the current exploitation, they need to occupy as much space as possible and then, let's say when I was mayor three years ago, there were 290 hectares in my county under exploitation, and a new request for 400 and it is certain that we had to look for solutions together with the ministry to prevent it. One question that has been touched here in a series of discussions here, it's a question of exploitation from the waterbeds. As a rule, both these three rivers and Mura and Drava and Sava are border rivers, and that's part of it we have regulated interstate agreements, but that's the part that's the hardest to control because if it's an excavator dig into a truck and if it's still a night spear, by morning it's all water aligned. In the morning, no one can hesitate how much gravel or sand has been dug up, and that's why there are some locations that have been exploded for 10 years and over, and it's always the same with them, but the moment that we've built dams and hydropower on the river, then it's no longer sand and gravel from Austria, but for everything that's dug out, we're deepening the level of the trough, and for how much we've deepened the level of the trough, we're losing so much groundwater levels, as a rule of drinking water, and that's why these areas happen to continuously drop these columns. This is due to or one of the consequences of drying forests, changing the quality of agricultural land, etc. These are lasting consequences for which this law too needs to see what and how to set up, do and protect. What I also want to say here and to point out, it's a matter of rehabilitating the fields of exploitation. That's good. Now you say "guarantee," you have to secure an adequate guarantee because what's going on? You got permission, you dug up gravel or sand, as a rule when it was all over, the exploited area was dug up to the end, you're looking for a new surface, and here you buy on the railroad those old thresholds in Hungary, that fence cop and you write up the board forbidden swimming because there are up to 30, 40 meters in depth, depending on what the badgers are, and that was a recovery. The resolution elaborate must be, it must be implemented, and the funds for that recovery must be secured and it is good to provide guarantees for recovery. What I also want to point out here and say, and in Article 33, the compensation is not to my end clearly precise because it says that the compensation belongs to the local self-government unit in which the area is exploited. When it comes to oil and gas, then oil belongs to units whose area is the bed because, I don't know, the amount of gas is in Moldova, but it is also under the municipality of Novigrad on one side and the city of Djurdjevac on the other hand, as we specify that part. And while I'm talking about this, I'm sure you should also make it clear what a selling price is. Because you at the ministry know we've had situations over a certain period of time that the company's administrations have determined what the sale price is. One was determined for the reckoning, and the other was used for the sale. That difference is exactly what causes the anger of local self-government units. Because the sale of gravel on Drava is 20 kuna, and the sale fee in Zagreb is 120 kuna, and that's the difference now. Those with 20 kunas must maintain roads, bridges, take care, store, and here these 100 kunas turn into something else. I'm sure I need to regulate it and make it clear, and it's good to share, it has to be shared. It is not by chance that Podravina does not receive this fee because there is someone beautiful there, but because on average between a billion and a billion and a billion million cubic metres of gas only exploits it because it is 60% of the Croatian potential of energy, and we know what that means, but also because there remains consequences. Because 17,000 acres isn't just the one where the drilling is. 17 thousand acres in my county or somewhere, 16% of the total space is underwater, gas pipelines, oil pipelines, etc. In order for all of this to be put into operation together, and therefore that end, that environment and such environments should be allowed to receive a certain fee because that is what... It's buried, and the devastation of space is permanent. [[You don't understand.]] It's certain that's why they have the right and these are wider. One more moment. Part of what is approved for mining is at some point it wants to redesign for something else. I was a battle with a strong lobby in this country, which oil-exhausted wells or gas stations wanted to turn into a waste dump. That's what this law has to say. As I visited the ministries, it was said it was not regulated, but they are world directives. Let's install a directive here, who can do it, for which purposes and how. I know that what's in space has come out of the country can be returned to that country, but nothing else, but it should then be incorporated into the law. And one more thing. Inspectorate the inspection, if they won't work then under this where the water settles, so where the plants grow up there won't be much effect and it's good that this law, I'll end it, regulate the issue of workers' protection, because dealing with mining is a very dangerous job. It should also be taken into account that workers are not engaged in any activity or profit. Because it's here and it's been said specifically that now it's going into function of this Adriatic exploitation, we don't have a helicopter to save people from the platform. That someone in this country needs to know and put someone in charge, because that's where it happens... They can either jump into the sea or wait for three waves until the ship arrives. [[You don't understand.]] We don't have a contract with a hospital where they'd be helicoptered if anything happened, eruptions, etc. and it is certainly dangerous and certain that such things should also be done by law, and then by inspection whether, because they are profitable activities, whether they are achieved and all the protection measures are followed by the prescribed ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13621	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the promoter, Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13622	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank all those who participated in the discussion of this draft bill in the first reading. I would say that the common denominator of the whole debate is indeed one common endeavor to prevent the crime that has been present so far and to preserve what we all enjoy with stone hearts. Brač was often mentioned, so in this segment I believe that the inhabitants of Brač also carefully observe and welcome the findings of the State Inspectorate and await the outcome of the findings and further procedures of the state's attorney's office when it is precisely the quarry of Banja. Some of the questions, which has been raised since yesterday, I will start with inspection supervision and there is a very precise location of the inspection control problem in this activity, because the number of inspectors we have in Zagreb, Varazdin, Osijek, Rijeka, Zadar and Split does not currently exceed the word and letter of 8 inspectors. Eight inspectors covering absolutely all areas that fall under those cities. We hope that the impetus of new inspectors to the mining geological profession to the State Inspectorate who will certainly be the backbone of the implementation of this future law, we hope that the new Law on the State Inspectorate, which you will soon have to discuss, will definitely be an incentive for them to expand the number of mining inspectors within the State Inspectorate. Furthermore, a question of public debate was raised. In this proposal of the Mining Law, we are introducing the principle of mandatory public tender and the public tender for selecting a qualified mining economic operator is an absolute basis. Therefore, for the approval of mineral raw materials research as it has been so far, there is no longer a public debate, so our proposal in the first reading. The question of the test exploitation of mineral raw materials was asked. It is provided for the purposes of laboratory testing, technological testing and the determination of the conditions of exploitation. The relationship between the location permit on the one hand and the Ministry of Economy's permission is related to the concession, for exploitation among other things. So the location permit is necessary. What is a prerequisite for a location permit and I will link it to a part of the debate that has raised the question of an idea mining project at all. In order to get to the location permit, we need this initial idea mining project by following the Construction Act. Without it, we would interrupt simply one professional circle for the condition of obtaining a local authorisation. The local authorisation is a condition for the authorisation of an exploitation field. The environmental impact assessment is now coming up with a third component that has also been placed or placed in a causal relationship is the basis. If the Ministry of Environment says no, the Ministry of Economy and here I believe that you recognize our mutual coordination, the Ministry of Economy will not go further with permission to approve the exploitation field. So I would say that not only very well-coordinated but that one consequence logical, so from an idea mining project to a local authorisation, to a final authorisation permit or concessions have a very logical and above all a professional sequence. The public tender procedure for the authorisation of the mineral raw material exploitation field shall not carry out those actions which are within the jurisdiction of the local authorisation. Those two procedures say they don't overlap, they complement each other. Those conditions and that limitation from the location permit for the mining operation in the area must naturally be respected and it is installed in the mining project of exploitation. With regard to the division of mineral raw materials that has been concerned, this proposal introduces a new division that is tailored to the needs of the Republic of Croatia and we hold that this categorisation defines mineral raw materials by their meaning, but also by their presence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Gas storage was mentioned in geological structures, storage of hydrocarbons in geological structures, and exploitation of mineral raw materials. We feel that the proposed law is fully regulated. Storage of technological waste from research and exploitation of mineral raw materials is an integral part of the work on the recovery of exploitation fields, and we also think that this bill also regulates this domain. As far as the above mentioned works concerning design and low - construction, high - construction, or tunnels are concerned, this law does not cover this matter. It is connected, but matter is within the jurisdiction of the Construction Act. A unique information system was also mentioned. All mining-geological data collected by research, which, by exploiting mineral raw materials, becomes part of a unique information system. And this matter, or treatment of such data, is properly governed by the draft bill in chapters 3 to 6. As regards the micro-location also mentioned and highlighted in the discussion, the micro-location of mining facilities and plants for the exploration of hydrocarbons and mineral and geothermal water, when used naturally for energy purposes, for which construction does not require a building permit. As so far, naturally interested economic operators will be required to produce research and test drillings, which during research and exploitation show the need, and of course, if they are not covered by verified project-technical documentation, they will already be processed subsequently. The procedure for the approval of micro-locations in addition to the other prescribed proposal of the Mining Law should also check the possibility of carrying out work on the production of, for example, research and test wells in view of spatial plans, property-legal relations for land particles where the works in question are yet to be carried out. The debate on behalf of the HNS club has been stifling differences in data. Yes, it is true that the economy ministry data in this section differs from the data available to INA in terms of oil, as far as gas is concerned. But where our data doesn't match. Our data records established reserves. INA's records. INA's data records established reserves, but their balance sheet, i.e. the INA balance sheet, also enters potential reserves in its data. So in our data, we record only the de facto established, confirmed reserves and convert them into appropriate indicators, and projections and potential reserves, so that part of INA inputs into its balance sheet. And there's, of course, the difference between one and the other. As regards the calculation of the charges of the exploitation fields, it is, as mentioned in the opening statement, calculated per hectare of the exploitation field annually. As to the value, therefore, there was a question of clarification, which means the revenue obtained by the sale or where the value was contained. It is the value of mineral raw material in the bed itself, I am not talking about the final product, and the value of mineral raw material is always precisely determined by the reserve elaborate at the moment of the balance of the reserves established before the authorisation for the exploitation field is granted. One commendable suggestion regarding the matter of recovery, especially abandoned exploitation fields. Indeed, the practices of individual countries show that special funds for recovery or recovery are established through existing funds. Good idea, we'll certainly be guided by this proposal. In the trend of general deberocracy and reducing administrative burden, I believe that our initial thinking would nevertheless go in the direction of the existing Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund rather than perhaps inventing a new body, a new fund and a new administration that would deal with similar affairs. But in any case, we welcome this idea, and we will certainly either go this way or go a little more clearly and take care of the issue of recovery. There was also a question of the price itself. I think it is a concern that the annual fee, i.e. an increase of up to 10%, will also affect the price of the final product. However, I warn that at least the mineral raw materials represented have exactly the value of that final product on the market. Of course, the market and practice will show whether this fear is justified or not. As far as illegal quarrys or gravel off highways are concerned, the absolutely defined problem we are aware of. Because of this problem and a number of other problems, as well as the criminal record that got involved in these pores of this activity and we propose in the first reading a draft bill as it is. I note that in the first reading of the living document we continue to conduct discussions with the profession, among other things, with the Faculty of Mining and Geology, as well as the Croatian Geological Institute, and the Chamber of Commerce, and the Association of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce. Our consultation with the public does not stop so that we would indeed have a very good text for another reading, which among other issues such as the wounds, abandoned and illegal quarryes along the highway, which, for example, occurred in the period from 2002 to 2004, even in the value of illegally excavated mineral raw materials, says 60 million kuna, will be processed before the institutions of the rule of law. So I'm thanking the CNS for reminding us of these illegal activities that were created in the construction of highways. I thank everyone once again for the discussions and the contributions that will certainly be considered and installed for the purposes of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-07-09-0.u13623	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We move on to the proposal of the Mining Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 127. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: A proposal of the Mining Law is adopted, one. Two, all objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by 119 votes for, 8 abstentions and nothing against. So most of the votes.
