ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We're going back to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 2nd extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I called an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Articles 197 and 198. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which means, in addition to the previously obtained opinion of the Clubs of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the draft agenda, you accepted them on benches and in the draft agenda that reads: Final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, an emergency procedure. Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and vote on the trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. The Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, adopted the adoption of this Act and proposed and supported the adoption by an urgent procedure. Is there any objection to the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this Act? If not, I believe the agenda has been accepted. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, an emergency procedure, as I said, was discussed by the Committees on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on Legislatives, but before that will explain the proposal for a bill by the President of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community as the Proposer of Mr Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u66	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration. In the brief explanation that is ahead of you, I would like only to highlight the needs for which this proposal is being adopted, and they are in line with the current results of the work of the current government, and they are aimed at even better work of the future government. So in this bill of law, the structure changes into several specifics. The reasons are next. In the past term, the government of the Republic of Croatia has launched a whole series of projects aimed at further economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In terms of improving Croatia's economic development, certain changes should be made to the structure of the central authorities of the state administration. In recent economic development over the past 4 years, the government has created conditions for opening new jobs to expand the activity of small, medium and large entrepreneurs, the increase in gross national income has been monitoring such activities, the lowest unemployment rate in the history of the young Croatian state has been achieved, the deficit of the state budget has been reduced. To continue these trends in the next term, the government wants to focus on the following two specifics. First, the government seeks to improve the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia and therefore needs to create certain institutional and normative assumptions. Equal development is the concept of both the Croatian Government and the European Union to which we are seeking and this even development will follow the European Union's regional policy guidelines. In this context, institutional assumptions should be created for the use of funds targeted regionally and therefore the body of the state administration that would achieve this should be strengthened. The second focus is the development of the strongest economic branch, which means tourism. Tourism has so far been part of a large ministry, the government considers and promoters believe and support the creation of a new ministry that will lead to special care for tourism development by strengthening efforts to develop continental tourism that has not yet followed efforts to develop our coastal tourism. For all these reasons, it is proposed to introduce two new ministries, and to change the name and the work of the two existing ones. The Ministry of Regional Development, Forest and Water Economy is being introduced. The Ministry of Tourism is also being introduced. The ministries are taking over part and part of the work of the current ministries, which is why the names of the two ministries are changing. The current Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development is getting a new name for this proposal. It is the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and the current Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy would go by the new name of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. With this structure of the government's objectives, which I mentioned in advance, we would get our institutional framework, rationality and success of the government's work would be guaranteed, and in order for all of this to be done by the promoters asking you to accept these changes. We also ask you to accept these changes by emergency procedure so that the new government structure can be applied as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u67	Thank you. This was an explanation on behalf of the promoters, namely HDZ, HSS, HSS, HSS and SDSS and Minority Representatives Club. Do the representatives of the board want to take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u68	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Assembly held at a joint session held today on 11 January 2008 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the establishment and division of the central bodies of the state administration with the final proposal of the law tabled by the Croatian Parliament presidents of the Croatian Representatives of the HDZ, HSS, HSS, HSS, SDSS and the Club of Representatives of National Minorities in the Croatian Assembly of the Act of 11 January 2008. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system by a majority vote with 7 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 3 abstentions and the Legislative Committee by a majority of 7 votes in favour and 6 abstentions support the adoption of this law and do not oppose the proposal to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. At the same time, the committees do not object to the proposal for this law to take effect on the day of its publication in the People's Journal. On the text of the final draft law, the committees have no objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u69	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. So if it is known day after morning, then the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Designation and the deliriousness of the central authorities of the state administration by the HDZ club, or coalition partners, can be established that there has been nothing new in HDZ policy since 1993. Last night, a personal crisis was arranged for a new government. Those agreements that were reached last night depended on what kind of formation and part-rounding of the ministries would be. These personal arrangements, which were conducted tonight, depend on the formation of a state administration in the Republic of Croatia. That HDZ, as the holder of the coalition, would take care of the personal needs of its party and coalition partners rather than the general interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Let me try to back that up. What are the main problems in Croatian society? For 15 years in Croatia, no number has dropped below 250 thousand people looking for a job and cannot find it. For over 15 years, we've had a million and a few people who can't make ends meet. So the existence is at stake. The Croatian government does not find it appropriate to have the labour ministry, the labour ministry and social care. Another problem that hinders the development of the Republic of Croatia in both social and economic terms is corruption and is the state of justice and state administration. That's what we've got in mind. There's nothing in this bill about it. Moreover, the state administration remains under the direct authority of the Prime Minister or Government. He doesn't even have independence as an independent ministry. If we add that in the 12th month of this year, the European Commission asked the Government of Croatia to revise an action plan to combat corruption and an action plan to address the situation in the Croatian judiciary, then what I said at the beginning can be observed. So, we were not guided by the general interests of the society and citizens of the Republic of Croatia when we were working on a scheme of the organisation of the state administration, but rather by the personal needs of the coalition partners. Such a relationship confirms that there has been no change in HDZ policy since 93. That's good, but there's still a problem for these millions of people who have a hard time living and 250 grand looking for a job and they can't find it. There's something else I'd like to say. The reform of the state administration is inevitable. She has to be designed. It's a longer-term process and a very expensive process but it's necessary. This complex ad hoc thing I have to say is that organising a state administration won't be able to improve citizens' interests in front of that state administration, but it will complicate their lives, ma and physically. They'll have to look at new addresses to exercise their rights. But at the same time, it's the public administration, it's important to collect because it's a reorganization without design. She's out of personal need, not out of the needs of the citizens. It simply cannot be challenged because the ministries will split even unnaturally to say so, such as unnatural mergers in the ministries of the sky, the earth and the fire, etc., as we know it and the citizens consider it, are so unnaturally and separated. In such circumstances, what can be expected of the new government, the new administration? Can't be expected, can't be optimistic. I must say that a policy will continue to take care of party or particular interests rather than the general interests of society. It cannot be ignored that there is a problem of corruption in Croatia as number one in social relations and as a brakes of the development of the Republic of Croatia and that the situation is recognised outside our country and in our country, that in the judiciary and the state administration such a situation is such that this prevents the continuation of talks and negotiations, the screening of Chapter 23 with the European Union. So, one more time. In our opinion, this is not a good sign. Not a good sign for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I don't think we can support the passing of a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u72	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament! No matter what I will not raise my hand for the government, no matter what we will not support the government, I have always represented the the thesis that any new government or any new coalition has the right to write or to adapt this Law on the formation and detour of the ministry or as we like to call it the Law on Government. So it was until 2000, so it was January 3rd, so it was in 2003, so it will be today and at local level. Clearly, whoever does this takes responsibility. The coalition, this HDZ, HSS, HSLS etc., has been given the mandate to lead the country and will do so clearly among other things, I hope, and in line with some moral ropes, not as we had the opportunity to watch or talk about Mrs Blažević's shift. What is the essence, however, that this government can, how logical is this bill number one and whether it will collect or disburse the state? So let's start from this lighter to harder. Every public administration reform was becoming more expensive for taxpayers, so this one and a half months' trade will result in our country being more expensive and not being cheaper. It's clear to everyone. Whether it will be more effective will show time. I doubt that. It is also clear that two new ministries should not mean that the state will immediately be more expensive but what is important is that this coalition is wider and trade is clearly greater. How logical is this proposal? Two new ministries have been introduced. It means the one for regional development and tourism. And that in itself doesn't have to be bad. I think the best way to express it here, or the best way to express a trench war between the HDZ and the HSS. Six billion kunas, in that coalition proposal, are talking about a billion and a half plus four and a half billion kuna. So there was this battle for the Ministry of Agriculture until the last day. But then one Copernicus turn. Pancrets belong or other problems. Encouragement needs to be addressed and Cobankovic is transferred outside the budget funds i.e. money Croatian water, forest etc. In one word, Mr. Sanader's future Prime Minister's brilliant maneuver. When we look at now, 95 or 96% of the money goes to HDZ, 4 to 5 billion kuna of that 120 billion money will be controlled by these 16 MPs, or 18 MPs in that coalition. The second thing I want to notice here, regardless of how glad I am that one such ministry of regional development is being introduced, which doesn't seem to suggest that the country will be decentralised in any way. Only five things in this country seem to never happen. The first one is decentralisation. Why? Because the government has one who has authority at national level not at local level. Zagreb is the exception. The Bandic controls about 12 billion to 14 billion kunas. It is clear that whoever has the central government controls the state administration, places the first people of the police, catastra, finance, takes care of agricultural, forest land from which clearly in other parts of Croatia agricultural land is sold for 0.5 to 1 kuna and in Istria from 20 to 100 kuna, which is looting the farm. And it is clear from these grounds that whoever has central authority can control and opportunities at local level will never decentralize the state. Another thing that will never happen is that MPs are directly elected. The third thing that will never happen in this country, it's a revision of conversion. Fourth, the return of money from this country during the Homeland War. And fifth, that's a double right to vote. Now that's the worst of it, not in this proposal, but in practice. Clearly, the country will not be decentralized. We have a ministry, we have no will to lower power and money to lower levels. And I'm afraid everything will still be blackmailed. You're gonna do this to me, and then I'm gonna give you something else in return, etc. But also the money in the budget, it's not just private money, it's not just a team that has at some point been given the opportunity to put together power, it's the money of all the citizens who fill that budget. It's my fault there's no Mr. Cerwar here. I want the success of him and the handball team at the European Championship, but he boasted that from 2003 to 2008 there were 2.7 billion kuna in Istria from the central authorities with decentralised funds. But he forgot to say on the other hand that 40 billion kuna went from that same space to the central government. And that's the point of being kind of blackmailed by yours. Money is not only earned where it goes the most, in one Zadar, Split, but also in one Zagreb and Istria and Rijeka where the least money is returned. And that's the point. And about one possibility that the Primorje-goranska or Istrian County itself builds with budgets of 300 million kuna KBC or general hospital is the same as if someone required to build something similar to the County of Split, Varazdin or elsewhere. So that's what insults you. You give 40 billion kuna, you get 2.7 billion kuna back in four years. Second. The tourism ministry, the IDS has always stood up for him. We also advocated in 2003. We're up for it today. If for nothing and then because of the fact that the entire Adriatic from the 1990s to the present, not counting the reconstruction of some hotels may have built five new hotels that have 150 or more beds. I don't know, in Istria one is Kempin Istria, Umag Nautika and that's all about it. In one Poreč from 1990 to today, which is 20% of Croatian tourism in the period from 1990 to 1998 has not been built any new hotels. Not that he's not in Poreč, he's not on Rab, he's not in Opatija, he's not in Dubrovnik, he's not in Hvar, and so on, and I welcome him in this ministry. For me along with those state ministries, the police mean that we, but not that Kirin, who should fight corruption, drugs, protect citizens, the Ministry of Justice to guarantee all citizens equal access to that legal state or courts, the Ministry of Finance, health, education should also take care of the industrialisation of the Republic of Croatia. Here's just a few details. For example, export per capital per 4 let's say the typical county "vis avis" structure of the government has a situation that Istria has exports per capita of $5000 43 dollars or two thousand 705 dollars more than the Croatian average. In Split County, the export of $668 is below the Croatian average. In Varazdinska it is larger than the Croatian average, 1350 dollars, and in Primorje-Gorski it is amazing that $596 is less than the Croatian average. So we're missing one of those ministries. It might be a good thing that this job is coordinated by Mr Polancec, who is also said to be the guardian of the new coalition agreement to gain the same weight as the vice-president of the government, but I think such a ministry should be crucial in a country whose external debt currently exceeds EUR 32 billion and which in 4 years will reach the amount of EUR 50 billion, and in the meantime this state will repay at least EUR 25 billion. And that's the point. And this whole proposal that's here before us and even that coalition agreement that we're going to discuss tomorrow is about how to spend money and not how to create it. It is a miracle that there was no mention of the termination of the Croatian Privatisation Fund after what the "Maestro" action revealed in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, whose credibility the entire executive power fell. It is clear that I am not underestimating and I will say this proposal, but the point of the proposal is not how to create money but how to spend it and how to clearly satisfy certain appetites. In one word, how to play a game with coalition partners and almost when I see what financial power is now moving from one party to another and vice versa, I have the impression that one such proposal should support the opposition, and that it should be challenged by that coalition that is not within the HDZ ranks because I said that their 18 MPs, in relation to 66 HDZ, have maybe 3% of the financial impact in that agreement, and with 97 or 96% of that financial capacity, have HDZ. Here's so much for that coalition. Another thing that might also be good is that the administration might be forced to start working, not because of their unwillingness to block any activity in this country. Our administration, state, city, does not matter the county becomes the main braker of the country's development, and responsibility is clearly assumed by those who are at the head of the executive authority. To me, what matters is, will we be able to reduce external debt through these solutions to the new Croatian government's structure? Will we be able to reduce unemployment? We will, 100% it will fall to those declared 7%, it happens by momentum. In 3.4 years, the biggest problem as today in Istria will be not how to get to work but how to reach workers? Will we be able to improve the standard, eradicate corruption? So our role is not just criticism. Our role is to clearly offer some solutions, and my proposal is if this country really wants to take a real step to look at the period before 1990 because Croatia was the fastest to develop when it was most decentralised in the period from 1974 to 1990. And that is why I advocate that as much money as possible be left to cities, municipalities, counties because it will indirectly not only help the country but also relieve the executive power. The truth will have less control over local government in this case but the country will grow much faster. And lastly, today it's clear in 2008, this is no longer 1993 or 1995 when politics started the economy. That's right behind us. The role of politicians is clear to fight for their end and not to let down their voters and in one word not to lose face. And what may be the greatest lack of this law, which simply does not speak of the need for the demetropolisation of the Republic of Croatia. At the moment, Croatia has sucked in financial, demographic, budgetary and such policy is not perspective. I will say once again I will not support the government, but clearly I want every success to the new government because its success will be a success for each individual and every citizen who also resides in these areas of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u73	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u74	Thank you very much, dear colleague Radin. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues in, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I will start with that easier part of the law that is usually hidden in one sentence that the money for the implementation of this law will be provided in the state budget. It doesn't say how much, but it'll take care of itself. I think that the biggest profit of this, but also similar laws that we bring about every two years will have writers, sealers, printers, and we give a great deal of work to pension and health insurance because several thousand and applications for employees in these portfolios will have to be made to translate them into new titles of state bodies and even on the Internet there will be significant costs because they will need to create new websites, web portals and all that is related, and this cost will not contribute to the very quality of government's work and Croatian citizens. But since there is this law, and four years ago, we also had our first working day in this Parliament, we also discussed the formation of a new government, the proposal then called a radical reduction of the government and the number of ministries, so let me remind you which words and arguments were then supported by proposals adopted by the Croatian Parliament. I will use a phonogram and quote the words of the then and current prime minister of the government. The government with 19 ministries and another without a wallet, so 20 ministers. For a country of 4.5 million or so, that's too much. We have comparisons with other countries, from Germany, which has 80 million inhabitants and 13 ministries, to Austria, which has about 11 million inhabitants and 12 ministries. So in December 2003, somewhere between Christmas and New Year, Germany and Austria with 12 or 13 ministries were our orientation in which Croatia should also go. Furthermore, the following is said. In the approach we had two possible ways of looking, one was whether to combine something that was self-contrased or should be left in separate corridors that everyone for himself struggled as it had been the case so far, so until then. Another approach was possible to leave them separate so that everyone would fight for their positions and see which minister was stronger and that the minister then won. And I'm finishing the quote next. Responding to the debate of counterpart Arlovic, Mr Sanader said but also, it should be said that today in Croatia we are detecting a situation that has about 50 different offices, institutions, agencies and directors. 50, maybe even more. We'll have the exact number right now during this debate. Many of these, it's one big machine, they have nothing to do with the Parliament and what we're discussing today, and they're set up by the government's decision not the Parliament. So a whole series of these institutions, directors, offices and agencies, four different names, we'll cancel out. So let's go, that's not what I was talking about here tonight, because that's not the topic, so we're going to cut the state's apparatus, radical reduction. In the term of the last government following this opening speech on the bill, the government established seven new agencies, four offices and three offices, with 32 agencies, 24 offices, 2 directorates and 31 offices at the moment, not counting those state offices in the counties. So this was the result of a radical reduction in 2003, and I guess when we're going to do an analysis in four years that the result of approximately these changes is going to be on this trail of numbers and growth. What, though, has changed since 2003? It's not about the economy, the finance, the ability, the quality that we're looking for, that we're looking for to increase the number of ministries now to 15, the number of government members to 17 and 18, and that in practice in 2008 we're coming to the same number of government members that was characterized as unnecessary, terrible, scary and too big. What changed was that the election results were something different and that the coalition had to be concluded, the ruling coalition in which everyone sought their place, and that is legitimate, and in each country it happens, agreements are concluded, obligations shared, with us often chairs but not responsibilities. But what is not good, 47 days after the election, those who have accepted the authority said in an honorable word not to talk about the chairs. So that chair word was used a hundred times a day. What kind of message was sent to the citizens? It doesn't matter who the minister is, it doesn't matter at all, they don't decide anything, they don't need to know anything, they're just chairs, you know, and we don't discuss chairs in honor, we don't discuss. Until 24 hours before the Parliament's constitution. And then they are no longer chairmen but become ministers, ministers, vice-presidents, vice-presidents of the government and, of course, it's very important now what is called the ministry, which is part of the circle and what powers it has, where it will be seat, who will be state secretary and how many former deputy ministers, assistant ministers, or future directors will have. However, that something is wrong or that the explanation of access is not good, and I will quote only four sentences first from the reasoning of the law. Accepting the concept of European regional policy and the possibility of using pre-accession funds intended for regional development projects, it is necessary to establish a special central body of the state administration that would achieve the government's drawn-up policy. But as far as I know, Croatia has a central body of state administration in which it is established by a government regulation called the Central State Office for Development Strategy. So indeed Croatia has such a central state body right now. Further explaining, i.e. by prescribing Article 4 of the amendment and addition, which should be dealt with by the new Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, and now follows a sentence of 146 words, I will only quote a dozen. Therefore, it will deal with, interregional and transnational cooperation as well as the preparation of multiannual and annual strategic and operational documents for the use of pre-accession funds of the European Union and other international sources of finance and three points. I would like to remind you of a report on the progress of the European Commission published in Croatia a few months ago, which contained a sentence that remained in the public or untranslated from English to Croatian or unread, which said roughly: Croatia showed significant weaknesses in its implementation of European aid within the decentralised implementation system in 2007. At the request of some experts and journalists, the European Commission Office in Zagreb explained or explained what the European Commission wanted to say in that sentence and the answer was as follows: Croatia needs more responsibility for the implementation and use of European funds. The Central Office for Development Strategy should be given greater responsibility and authority. Finally, Croatia's problem is the ability of employees to manage projects and to build capacity to withdraw European funds. So if, constantly, we are warned that by overcoming the changes in terms for some other reasons, we do not satisfy the essence of quality, and these are also the ability to implement and withdraw that money, I expected that in parallel with this, if the coalition agreement requires a radical increase in the number of members of the government, there will be something more in the explanation written, and in the opening and said exactly that. We can establish five more new ministries, or we can put an end to all existing ones. We can invent the titles of function and establish 10 new offices, agencies and institutions. But our obvious problem is that we have not yet learned that the quality of the people who manage these processes decides on what quality we will get in this now pre-accession, and I hope later as members of the European Union. For these very reasons, the fact that this Act is over-settled with this reason and structure seems to us in the club of the Croatian People's Party will not bring what is said as a reason for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u75	Thank you. It is up to the Club of Representatives of HSLS, HSU and Mr. Representative Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Immanuel Kant said there's something we can call an architect of the mind. Today, according to this, the postmodern word is that there is something that is the architecture of creation and also the architectural of governance. What we have ahead of us is an attempt to change in some way the architectural or governance structure of this political community, this country, this country. Anyone who assumes responsibility for the governance of the state, who we would actually say in modern language, assumes responsibility for management in the public administration, has the right to re-adjust himself to the architecture, that is, the internal structure of the government, that is, the internal structure of the entire public administration or public service. That's his original and legitimate right, that right has never been questioned, I would have told any government so far, so I don't think that this legitimate right should be denied or challenged by this government. What we can discuss is whether according to our political position, so all the parties that are represented today in this High House are meaningful, overly, comfortable, affected in everything that needs to be managed, what kind of architecture should be. I was never a fan of the debate that actually led us to the classical socialist, i.e. I would say the perverted Marxist matrix that the quantity goes to quality or that the quantity itself can contribute to quality in any way. Whether we have several ministries more or less, so whether we are going to deal with this moment as crucial quantitative issues will not contribute to the quality of government action, as well as any institution. This applies not only to the government, it also applies to all public services in the Republic of Croatia. What we can draw as a taste of all the debates in these four years, so what can even become some sort of locus communis, some kind of general place, some debate about this architectural government is the fact that almost everyone, the main opposition so far, has said that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development is a massive ministry, too broadly, that it is impossible to actually form it internally, that it is impossible to control all processes and it is indeed so. And those of us who supported the government, we warned about it, especially the Lords of the Resistance. It's really about that, I said in a joke it's the Ministry of Fire, Water, Earth and Air. So, from the tiny breasts of the earth to the universe. It's certainly a ministry that's hard to run, so if you really want us to engage in nominal issues now, not merely linguistic issues, but nominal political issues, I don't really know a country in Europe that has the name of the Ministry of Business dealing with territory. The Ministry of the Sea. The sea is a territory, it is part of the territory of a country and it is difficult to imagine, in fact, except in the conveyed meaning of what the Ministry of the Sea would do, then it should deal with the Ministry of Rivers, since rivers and water wealth are the greatest goods at this time in Croatia. Croatia is a third or fourth country in Europe by water quantity. Unfortunately, we haven't used that well so far. Maybe we'll do it from now on. Or maybe we should go to the Ministry of Mountains and Mountains. So it's that we have a ministry that even has, and if you want to be linguistic, not to say a nominally political rather clumsy name. The coalition government has now, of course, since it is in the right sense for the coalition government to decide in some way to dissolve, to break up this massive ministry, to divide the powers of the secretariat, the state secretaries of the administration. And that's something that comes from exactly what was said not only when it comes to political debates, so positions and opposition, but even if you want economic analysts, financial analysts, and the public as well as the media. Two new ministries were created, with of course the Ministry of Agriculture also receiving some new areas of authority. So it also deals with agrarian development, or rural development, which in our opinion is good and fishing. And on the other hand, here we have the Ministry of Regional Development on what exactly is stated in the presentation of fellow Lesars is also a key item and the key reason why it is good to set up this ministry. In fact, the European Union has made it very clear that greater powers and responsibilities should be given to this state office, the Central State Strategy Office or the Development Strategy. There is no lady and gentlemen greater responsibility and authority than the ministry. So the central office is one thing. It's a body that can be an inter-resor body that can coordinate. However, it has no authority and no level of ministry. Therefore, if we want to please, although this is for me and the secondary reason because we need to do this primarily because of Croatia's regional development, less because of the European Union's or its instructions, then this is exactly the kind of business that needs to be given to the ministry. In which, of course, I want to warn you, it will not increase administrative capacity in itself, nor will it in any way increase the absorption power of Croatia. Let's not fool our colleagues and colleagues. Slovenians, Portuguese, Hungarians and even Irish were unable to quickly increase their absorption powers. Hungary seems to me to be only 32% and 33% of the resources for infrastructure development. Therefore, we will not only do so by establishing the ministry, but we will if that ministry will finally coordinate and raise the capacity of local administrations. It's a condition. This is a condition that we can synergyly use more European Union funds. Because today we have wanted to admit it or not a deeply feudal society in which the borders of my municipality, the borders of my city and the borders of my county are the premises of my responsible action. We don't have regionally dimensioned projects. You can count on the fingers of one hand, I can speak ahead, as mayor of the city who pulled the most funds and projects in Croatia, we do not have regionally dimensioned projects. And we won't even have them until we think that the region is a county and that it actually ends our and our capacity as administrative and our absorption power. That is why we need the Ministry of Regional Development, although there will be nominal smudges again. Because if this is regional development, then the question is, is it rural that will be in the Ministry of Agriculture part of it regional or not? So perhaps nominally, I say linguistically define it differently. But in any case, we're pushing for the Ministry of Regional Development to be established. Croatia will certainly need it. Consider a territorial reconstruction. It's been a long time since anyone's thought of it. However, we did not approach that. Finally, there is something that we all agreed on again, so the need to introduce the Ministry of Tourism. Are we going to think about Croatian tourism one way or another, whether we are going to indicate these statistical figures or something else, the fact is that tourism is fundamentally statisticalally viewed economic activity in Croatia. And it is certainly good to think about tourism and decide at the level of a special ministry. If Mr. Cain today says it should still be someone seeing the implications of Istria, then it could have been IDS, still maybe. If we're going to think about tourism in total, then I think we should take all forms of tourism mainly continental tourism, because I see that we're already starting to guess whether the humane, personal choice is affected or not. So we're going back to the question, what do we really want with the architect? We want to have a ministry that will deal in particular with tourism activities in Croatia. And that's why it's less important if we speculate on it today. You should give people time. Are we going to give 50, 100, or don't know how many days to show what they can do. We therefore believe that, by establishing this Ministry of Tourism, we are in some way confirming certain economic orientation. What I would like to say in the end when we talked about the transition of quantity to quality we can also reduce today's number of ministries, and as it happens for governments in the former council, we will increase the number of administrations. And that means we're actually going to have more administrations. The Croatian administration local, regional, state-run will not become better and more effective because of one or two ministries more or less, but rather if we have cohesive forces and co-ordination forces if we finally create what is supposed and real decentralisation and that is the synergy of local administration, regional and state.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u77	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to say that this law is wrongly called. It was supposed to be called the Trade Act, because it's not about anything else, it's about ordinary political trade between HDZ and coalition partners. Why a sharp grade like this? What's the evidence for that? The evidence is Prime Minister Sanader's statements. For example, when it comes to whether the Ministry of Tourism should be a special ministry or should be incorporated into the Ministry of Transport and the connection of Prime Minister Sanader thinks this way: tourism is, I'm sorry, there are logical and very justified reasons why these resolutions should be within one ministry. Maritime, road, rail and air infrastructure are most important for the development of the country, especially for development and economic branches such as tourism. In all of this, we see tourism as an upgrade that will promote Croatia into a tourist country using this infrastructure and thus lead to Croatia living and harvesting more significantly than tourism. When it comes to whether water should be separated from the agriculture ministry, or whether Prime Minister Sanader thinks as part of it, I quote. "In the Ministry of Agriculture, we have also included a water economy, and this is based on the experience so far as one of the greatest natural resources, we have concluded that it is an optimal inclusion, that the optimal solution is the integration of the water economy into the system of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The government is aware of the strategic importance of water and is convinced that this will put the water economy in the right position." That's what Prime Minister Sanader thinks. Now, either the HDZ club that suggests exactly the opposite of what Prime Minister Sanader thinks has no idea what Prime Minister Sanader thinks about the issue, or Prime Minister Sanader has changed his mind, which means he admits he was wrong. Or actually, the formation of these two new ministries has nothing to do with any rational reasons. Two new ministries are being introduced because two new chairs are missing, the HSS needs to be calmed down, colleagues Pankretić and Mr Bajs need to be put in place, the coalition needs to be preserved, at any cost, to come to power with coalition partners. So if it means giving up your opinion of Sanader as we see giving up your opinion. On the other hand, HSS and HSLS should at all costs be in power with HDZ, so, for example, if this means voting for an immoral decision to replace Mrs Jadranka Blažević as it was today, they will also vote for it. And the first effects of that shift of colleagues and colleagues are already obvious. For example, at the beginning of the debate, we should have voted on the application of an emergency procedure in the agenda of this point. The President of the Parliament should have asked the representatives who was in charge of the emergency procedure. He didn't do it. The new president of the parliament doesn't know that he should have asked the Parliament. Okay. He doesn't know the President of the Parliament even after 17 years, but he should have been warned about that by the secretary of the session. That's what Mrs. Jadranka would warn him because she knows it. But the one who knows would be replaced by the one who doesn't know. Well, it's not, I don't think the new secretary has been elected because he knows something or knows something about the Rules of Procedure that he should know. As it moves, it's safe to continue. Let's get back to the law. Two new ministries are being established and there are no budgets for them. So we have current temporary funding, temporary budget. Well, now, there's no money for the new ministries, there'll be a time when a new budget is passed. When a new budget will be adopted and somewhere there in February at the first session around February 20th. What will the ministers do by then? Nothing when they don't have money, nothing, but they say they're not even chosen to do something, they're chosen to be ministers, so they can be ministers. 'Cause look, if there was any other rational reason then we'd say we'd wait for the budget, we'd budget the funds for those ministries, and then we'd propose a Law on the structure and the detour of the ministries, so once they become ministers, they'd have their own budget money. This way they don't have anything and they won't do anything. But I'm saying, they're not even chosen for it, and no one's going to convince me that, for example, Mr. Byce is a tourist expert. We'll talk about it tomorrow. His connections with tourism are so much that he may have traveled somewhere to a tourist agency at sea. It's the right of the government to establish government as it pleases. All right. It's the right of the government to introduce two new ministries. All right, every government has a right. But then I think it would be fair for the citizens to be told. We have no rational reason to introduce two new ministries, they don't need this country. They need this government to achieve a coalition. Well, the citizens might understand that, maybe they'd support it, but at least then they'd tell the citizens the truth. Why make up other reasons when other reasons simply don't exist. This is about the naked political trade, the chairs and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u79	Thank you very much. We'll take these lessons into consideration. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u80	I agree with a great deal of what you just said, but I don't agree with one detail. You said we could call this law a trade law. This is not true because trade in the 21st century includes free market. In this law, the market is very limited, you will see tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u81	Thank you very much. All the lessons are welcome in the Parliament. Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang has a correction to an incorrect assumption. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u82	Thank you very much. A fellow Stazic is two incorrect allegations. There were more of them, but because of the lack of time. First of all, it's not true that the new secretary is a man who doesn't know. You can't claim not to know, that's all we've said, you've been accompanied by a biography that's very impressive. And therefore, don't underestimate a man, but give him a chance to speak. The second is that you don't know, you said incorrectly that no money was secured in the state budget for a new structure like this. Under the State Budget Act and the implementation of the state budget, money cannot be provided before the structure is changed. Therefore, the order of things is not exactly what you stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u83	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. So given that you have not responded to a request or a request from colleagues, I would like to warn you that democracy by simplest definition means respect for the procedure. Our Rules of Procedure in Article 160 states that if it is an emergency procedure in law making, then the united first and second reading must be put to the vote. I don't have any dilemma that you're going to vote for it, so I'm asking you to do it before we adopt this proposal to do it, so that we can still go the way we should run the procedure in this House. Looking at this bill of law, we on the opposition side, of course, always have certain objections. I could also agree with that finding that the majority always have the right to, in accordance with their needs, organise the ministries or bodies of the central administration according to their programme. But when it's trying, as this proposal puts it, in an explanation that it means more effective work, that it means economic growth, that it means a new quality then such findings in the law itself actually don't have any foothold. I'm going to say this very briefly at the separation of these two ministries or the formation of two new ministries. I will only be limited to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Regional Development. In 2004, when we changed the same Law by an urgent procedure, when we reduced the number of ministries then just as counterpart Stazic said, certain changes were being made and as regards the Ministry of Agriculture, which was then added to the water economy that was previously in the Ministry of Development, I could personally agree that it was a good move. Starting with that, that land, forests and water are of value or are of particular national importance in Croatia and that these are the most valuable resources that Croatia today has. And when we look at what's left of the Ministry of Agriculture or what's left in that Ministry of Agriculture. It has literally been prescribed everything that has been in the Ministry of Agriculture so far by transferring the delirounding of forestry and the water economy to this newly established ministry. The Ministry of Regional Development should have a special important role in the regional development of Croatia, which is a very different regionally developed particular meaning and should not be added to it by forestry or water economy. So by assessing that this way, we will not get any important quality in the Ministry of Agriculture by singled out the water economy and forestry. In order for something more to be done in the form of central government bodies, it should be more important to amend this law or to pass a specific law. So there's already been a lot of changes in the meantime. In particular, we have significant comments from industry representatives in the food industry, tobacco industry and wood industry that they are significantly neglected precisely because they are located in the sector or their parent ministry is the Ministry of Agriculture. Now they're still separated into two ministries. We should actually change more significantly the activity or part-time work of the Ministry of Economy with an emphasis on the development of industry or new industrial policy in Croatia. Therefore, given that the mandater defended the existing structure of the central state bodies a day ago, it is obvious that here it is not the interest of such changes to actually be more effective in the work of the Government than in order to meet all needs and the specific needs of individual parties and to achieve a coalition agreement. Therefore, the whole reason for these amendments to the law is, in fact, an alibi for how human beings can be provided with the conditions of individual people from individual parties and thus actually ensure the majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u85	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, you asked me one question, so I'm going to try to answer that question and for who knows which time I'm going to thank you today. I've been thanking you all day, and I thank you for a series of lessons you've taught here today, showing that this table isn't working. A man learns clearly while he's alive and even after his 5th term as I do. I'm not ashamed of learning. I thank you for your well-meaning, because I can't imagine it wasn't a well-intentioned remark. I admit I don't know everything like you do, but I'll learn. Let me also point out that when voting and including this item on the agenda, I have asked the honourable MPs if there is any objection to the inclusion of this item of the agenda by emergency procedure. It's too ghastly as if there were no objections because if it were obvious someone would raise their hand and then we'd be going into business waters like we've done before. That's why every further observation you make about things that concern the procedure I'll be grateful to receive. And now let's move on because it's Mr. Representative Branko Grcic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I may think differently about whether the Ministry of Regional Development needs to, because I have spoken myself, perhaps in the last 2, 3 months, about the need to establish a regional, Ministry of Regional Development, simply because the issue of regional development and some of the differences that exist between peripheral areas and, let's say, our capital and these more developed parts are really so great that the moment has definitely come for the issue of regional development to rise to a high institutional level. However, I must also note a few of the problems we have here but I would also like to say a few of the principles of organisational problems that are partly here and mentioned because there was little discussion between the position and the opposition earlier in the towers. First of all, what Mr Lesar mentioned was the role of SDURF, so the Central State Office for Strategy and Regional Policy, or the coordination of structural instruments. This office exists, we must not ignore it and it is a fundamental coordinating body that currently exists in the Croatian State for coordination with the European Union in the field of structural funds. Why am I saying that? So it would be easy if we had one inaccuracies in the explanation, we would easily ignore it. However, we must not ignore what the article says, in fact, the proposal of Article 16a, which actually becomes part of the law and which must be respected. However, there is a serious problem here because at the end of the first section, the paragraph is that, among other things, this new regional development ministry should coordinate all jobs, emphasising all tasks related to harmonisation with the European Union in the field of regional policy and structural governance. What stands here is directly in the jurisdiction of the Central State Office and simply this sentence would actually question the status of that office. I would therefore be very committed, and given that this office has already been established, it works in quality, that this provision is certainly deleted, or that it is deleted, within this definition, all transactions and the management of structural instruments. Why? I'll try to explain. So definitely the role of the Ministry of Regional Development will be to coordinate one or two operational programmes of more than one of the European Union's tasks, which relate to the so-called ‘EU’. Cross-border cooperation, so cross-border cooperation, and another programme is a regional development programme, an operational programme for regional development. There is another operational programme for human resources, for the environment, for transport, etc. who are in the jurisdiction of other ministries. Therefore, the Ministry of Regional Development cannot be the main coordinating body for all tasks under structural instruments. Only if the office is shut down. Given that the office is part of the I at least assume, the overall government organisation, therefore he would have to be treated as such by these amendments to the law, and since I do not see that the removal of the Central State Office is proposed, which I personally oppose, then I think should be corrected by this article, i.e. this sentence in the article and clearly indicate what the role of the Ministry of Regional Development would be. I think that this correction really needs to come before we possibly raise our hand for these amendments to the law. It's about this legal part. I would just briefly point to two more, two illogical things per me, and it can be interpreted as saying that you said that a little while ago, as new knowledge, but it doesn't matter here I'm going to say it, since I've been really dealing with regional policy for a long time, so some things seem very logical to me. So the institutional rise in the level of regional development in the structure of the state would definitely require reviewing the position of two departments or two administrations in other ministries, is one administration for the islands, because whether the sustainable development of the island is clearly indicated and remains in the Ministry of the Sea, whether it belongs to regional development issues. In my opinion, there's absolutely no dilemma. And the second question, of course, is the rural development issue that I think may be part of the agriculture ministry, but I am stressing again, and this is a particular aspect of regional policy, regional development. I don't want to add any more than that. I'd like to eat some more, possibly some corrections in the text itself, which I think are a little outdated. For example, here is the mention of the CARDS project that has practically expired in Croatia, but there is no PHARE anywhere, there is no ISPA, there is no SAPARD, and especially that program that will be dominant in the next four years, which is IPA, the new Pre-Accession instrument, so this pre-accession instrument based on which Croatia will actually get the right to use a high level of funds in these four years. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u87	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u88	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must admit that I am somewhat and somewhat disappointed as a new representative in this honorable House that we begin our work on a legal project in a way that seems rather unserious. I expected the Prime Minister Sanader's government to make a serious analysis of the functioning of the public administration in the final of its mandate and that not only the HDZ would go to elections but also to negotiations after these elections with a very firm, reasoned and good analysis of the experience of governance in the four-year term, from which concrete proposals would then arise for reforming the public administration where the reorganisation of the government is actually just one small part. It seems to me that public administration reform is misunderstood and misjudged if it is thought to be achieved by grouping or multiplying jobs. It's actually about whether we know and understand what decentralisation is or not. If we think that by multiplying on one side or by grouping, we're actually talking about reform, I think we're on the wrong track. We find it difficult to be both Germany and Austria role models in this because these are the Federations. It's a very different character for a citizen. I must also say that we are pleased that HDZ saw its mistake, a big mistake when it was abolished by the Ministry of Tourism in 2003. Anyone who deals seriously with these issues, including tourism practices, has warned that it is not good, that bad messages are being sent. Especially because tourism is an industry that contributes practically one-fifth of GDP. However, I hope that the new ministry and the new minister, so whoever it is, understands it in tourism or not, and it will need to be understood in tourism, because the last minister did not have to because he had a State Secretary for Tourism, will still not listen to this guidance from the legislator of this law, which I read from Dr Hebrang, who announces the focus of tourism development policy on the so-called so-called. Continental tourism. In fact, tourism in Croatia needs new thinking and development in all segments and not only in continental areas, and if only continental tourism is highlighted, a very bad message is sent to both the public and the tourist employees. As for the Ministry of Regional Development, it seems to me that the time has matured to discuss the need to introduce not only the central state body that will coordinate this policy, but that it is certainly one of the preconditions and definition of what the region is. As far as I can remember, there was talk of statistical regions on the big mouth, but it didn't go any further than that. We don't have a definition of functional regions, so it's very interesting how regional development is at all. As far as I know, there's a lot of shortages in the story of regional development. If we were to bring into line the coalition agreement of the ruling majority that talks about regional policy and this document, then we would actually see that this is about an agreement on who is going to and how is it going to have money. The story of one-sided incentives and investments in agriculture amounting to at least 6 billion kuna per year and huge funds that will go in the form of so-called. fiscal decentralisation in the so-called regional development although it does not have a regional policy behind it because it is not there, is actually a story about that two coalition partners in the finals have actually decided that the HSS is controlling something less, and HDZ is something more to settle some local expectations before the 2009 local elections and thus buy votes. I also want to say that I do not see any logic that the Ministry of Regional Development and Forestry is dealing with the issues of exiles and refugees, because it is being sent a message that the issue of exiles and refugees is no longer a social, economic, residential, political, state-of-the-art issue, but that this is now a regional issue, and it seems to me that these issues still need to focus on an integrated state policy, not a policy that will take care of regional projects. The fact that the problems of exiles and refugees are being dealt with by the Ministry of Forestry only makes sense if we know that the current government has mostly dealt with areas of special state concern in such a way that they are increasingly covered by chica and forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u89	Thank you very much. Excuse me, please. We apologize for not knowing every name and name.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u90	I would correct the incorrect allegations of my predecessor who said that he did not see the reason why the Ministry of Regional Development is dealing with refugee issues, as well as the part of Mr. Greek who said that the Board of Islands should also be in that ministry, because Mr. Cobankovic comes from a region where there is still a problem that you have been talking about, as Mr. Kalmeta comes from a region that is closer to the islands, so it only sort of complements my colleagues who have said that the government and its priorities agree with people, and not according to some other logic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u91	Thank you. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u92	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe something different from those we've had the opportunity to hear so far, but let me tell you a few sentences that I seem to repeat year after year from first session, like this Parliament in the first, and in which nothing changes. A few sentences that matter to me personally, which is very important to us... Not only by our policies, but also by the composition of this representative club of ours, and judging by what the representatives of the various parties said in the election campaign, it seems that it is important for everyone else, so a few sentences about young people. [[I don't understand.]] I would like to make a proposal here, given that it is an urgent process that unites both first and second readings to consider and add to its amendment, actually supplementing this proposal, which would establish a special national administrative organisation that would deal with young people. There are several arguments for this proposal. First. If we look at this Law in the integral text, the young are mentioned in detail, not more than three places. For the first time in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, I quote, which says: "Protect and improve youth health."and then in the same ministry that says what the ministry is doing, I quote, "in the work of training youth to acquire technical knowledge." and at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which says it will deal with the study and research of modern family and youth problems. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues are the only three places where young people are mentioned in the law governing the system, in a way the system of state administration, or state administrative organisations. We don't think that's right. Second. Historical truths, in 2003, by informing the first government of Dr. Ivo Sanader was abolished at the time by the State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth and all jobs were redistributed to the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. This very formal reconstruction has had a devastating impact on the policy implementation towards and for young people in the Republic of Croatia. Young people who, to put it that way at the former State Institute had one third were also in the name of the institution, are now completely mnelled in the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Young people today, in Croatia, from the point of view of responsibility for implementing policies towards young people, I find a few people within the children's and youth department within the family administration in this large family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. Even a summer view of the Ministry's website shows that this ministry is either not concerned with young people or does not consider it important to inform the public about what it is doing with young people, because, for example, in all news relevant to the ministry in the past 6 months, only one announcement for one meeting has been published, and on the list of, for example, interesting characters, except for several screens of scrutinisation, various links to defence associations are only two links to youth associations. Third and last, but not least. The "Young Croatia" network as a roof youth association in the Republic of Croatia has reached consensus with the subjugation of all political parties other than the youth of HDZ, since the youth of the HDZ does not participate in agreements and does not cooperate with NGOs of young people on the need to form a special Youth Office, with the Government of the Republic of Croatia or with a special State Youth Institute. According to the proposal for a youth network, such an office or a state institution should carry out professional and other tasks relating to the achievement of a defined youth policy set out in the national programme of action for young people, report on the measures implemented, encourage, prepare all the other measures necessary because, namely, such a complex policy requiring major coordination and requires a single inter-resor body that has precisely a coordinating task. We colleagues and colleagues have talked many times today and before in previous mandates about what are good and bad sides of rounding and depriving various ministries. For example, we have seen how devastating it is for an integrated and complex policy such as policy towards young people, when this policy deals with everyone that in practice means that nobody deals with it and that policy. This is the case with youth policy in the Republic of Croatia or to correct myself immediately, several officials in, within the Youth Department within the Department of Children and Youth, located within the Family Administration within the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. I therefore particularly refer to the promoters that because of our Rules of Procedure and our business provisions, we cannot submit an amendment that would settle this issue. With this discussion, we would like to warn again and, for the third or fourth time, I would like to ask the motion that the law be complemented by some special State Youth Institute. We already have the State Institute for Statistics and Intellectual Property and for Measurement and various other things. Or to be instructed in the procedure of amending or supplementing the Government Act, which would form a special Office for Youth with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, when the Youth Network of Croatia one thing seemed to me a month before the elections organised the meeting of the presidents of all Croatian parliamentary, political parties, all present presidents, was not present only one, they declared themselves and promised young people in Croatia that they would establish a special administrative body. We have a feeling as representatives in the Croatian Parliament that we now and have a commitment to do so, such a promise will ultimately result in a better implementation here in the Croatian Parliament and a uniformly established youth policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u93	Thank you very much. Replica Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u94	Comrade Lugaric! On this very proposal you showed what the government should have done in a programming sense really if it cared about the development and progress of all Croatia. This problem you are talking about is the further development and guarantee of Croatia's development. Our most important export product, unfortunately, is the brain drain and that of young people. And that's something exactly on this example of what the government is and what the government was supposed to take into account. But the government deals with the number of ministries. As she boasted in the past, in the past, that she had drastically reduced the number of ministries and that Croatia would finally get a small, effective government. And what were the consequences? And that the number of ministries had decreased and the administration had become full. We don't even know how many clerks we have anymore, and that government's been wings for all time like a snake's feet. So here it is not, and now we have, of course, an increase in principle as counterpart Stazic said not only trade but trade in large, but according to that old folk proverb, how to make the wolf full and all sheep in number. Therefore, Ms. Lugarić, on such examples, the Croatian Government should also deal with these contents, and then design them accordingly and form the ministries and the state administration, because it is tragic that we have simply become a country where drugs are more expensive than drugs and drugs are cheaper than bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u95	Thank you. I didn't notice you called in for an answer. Thank you. It's Mr. Zdenko Franic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u96	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs! The debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of the Central Authority of the Government gives us the opportunity to talk about a very, very serious problem that could be solved and improved. The current situation is that there is a State Nuclear Security Office and a State Department for radiation protection whose activities are very, very intertwined and sometimes it is not clear when it ceases, it is not clear when one institution's jurisdiction ceases and when the other authority begins. We also have the State Department, the State Department of Protection and Rescue. We also have Civil Protection. However, the fact is that we still do not have an effective plan and programme of measures to do what in the event of a nuclear or radiological accident. We have some kind of partial measure where it's not clear when it comes to a nuclear accident, when it comes to a radiological accident, but there is unfortunately no effective coordination between these institutions. Until recently, they were placed above each other in the same building, so we could assume that there was a certain coordination, a alignment. However, they are now physically divided into different parts of the city. And even though it is now the 21st century and the era of telecommunications and Internet technologies, I still believe that a single state administration that would, for example, be called the State Institute for radiation protection and nuclear security would be for the Republic of Croatia and the scope of the activities that we have a team on a much more economical basis. And it wouldn't just be a reduction, it would be an optimization of the state's apparatus. For example, we are now reading in the paper about Naples asphyxiated in garbage, about a mob that allegedly smuggles waste, including nuclear waste into not only Italy, but also mentioned in the words of Croatia. However, none of the leaders of those state institutions have come forward to say yes, we function well, border control is excellent, it is not possible for such a thing to happen in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that within their competence these two institutions function relatively well. We have excellent cooperation with international organisations dealing with these content, for example the International Atomic Energy Agency. And I wish that all other scientific and professional organisations would draw as much of the funds from, for example, the European Union Framework Programmes as they are drawn from these projects of cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency. However, by optimising their work, the situation would improve significantly. Moreover, I believe that the situation with radiation protection in Croatia could improve even more no matter how good it is. So, I urge you to consider joining these two state institutions. The truth is, they were founded even during the 2003 coalition government, but it doesn't mean that all the decisions that were made at the time were the best. Moreover, I believe that the part-time work of the State Department for radiation protection would have to be strengthened. This is a real opportunity. Namely, the inspection is not assigned to them and they are like without a right hand, they have their own partial work but they do not have an effective way of checking whether certain parts of the system work. Therefore, my proposal is to consider uniting these two laws or at least to strengthen the work of the State Department for radiation protection in a way that gives them inspection powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u98	Mr. President, I belong to a generation that is very close to yours and you probably remember that in elementary school we were taught a bonton and I always remember the story and the lesson that we got about chewing gum. I watched as my colleague Lugaric said that some people chew tires in a way that is extremely rude, ugly, so I ask them to take it into consideration and at least try to make that correction in our behavior. Secondly, a fellow Greek recently made a series of proposals related to us necessary changes to the text in order for him to really hold the water. I will pray to my colleague Hebrang that he also so that this law would not return to us at the next session, see Article 8, the very end of that article regarding the decision on temporary financing. Although we started working the wrong way, so we got the law for an hour and a half before we discussed it, some of us actually passed it, tried to check out some details. So this "The People's News" number 22/07. Check, that number's not right. If it comes into our law, you'll see that you'll have to return the law to our benches and that's not necessary, it's 108/07. For those colleagues and colleagues who are in these benches for the first time today, I'd like to say a few historical facts about this law. If the four-year period is history, then that's where it belongs. In fact, Mr Sanader explained exactly four years ago why HDZ wanted to reduce the number of ministries. He explained it by rationalizing, saving. However, while several ministries were abolished after a year and a half, colleagues and colleagues believed or did not increase the number of government officials by 40%, the number of officials was greatly increased. That's what we've explained then, in the phonogram you'll find all the details. We're now increasing the number of ministries. You can imagine how much further this will generate the increase of both government officials and appliances quite unnecessary. This is how we deal with ourselves. First, five, six, ten months will be worn closets, writings, chairs, changing offices, overkilling people, and thus losing a huge part of the time. This is what we lost during 2004, and now in 2008 we will do the same thing again. At that time, we were convinced that it was absolutely necessary to eliminate, that the Ministry of Administration, local and regional self-government should be abolished. We now see that it is very important to return the regional story to the ministerial level. It's embarrassing to sit in these benches for two terms when you hear such diametrically opposite stories about the same thing over a short period of time. I agree with what the President of the Parliament told us this morning that there is nothing more important than the interests of the people than the interests of the state. And what are the interests of colleagues and colleagues? It's economic growth, it's employment and through this rise in living standards. I fully agree that regional development is an important part of this story, that tourism is an important part of the story. But I repeat, this is how we lose our time, our strength, our resources, our constant changes every four years. That's not it. I would just like to point out what my colleagues have already touched before me, that's Article 4 where the eighth page says the ministry is performing administrative and other affairs relating to the care and assistance of exiles. Look, helping exiles is one thing and regional development is still something quite different, much wider, and I think we've mixed up pots here. Mr. Grcic clearly warned where we must make at least some changes to this text to make it clear that it is actually holding water. Part of this story continues tomorrow and what seems to me wrong and where we've also actually made a few rough failures is when we look at a little bit of the human part of this story. That basically the ministry, the content of the work is adapted to the leaders who will sit in the ministerial chairs. That's not good. That's really not good. That's unnecessary. Take a look at the résumés of those we had today, the ones we had on the bench today, and look closely at tomorrow's lives of those we're going to vote on tomorrow. You'll see that some of them have nothing to do with regional development. Who prevented this government from doing regional development now? Who, how many times has Mr. Sanader called the mayors and negotiated regional development with them? How many times in four years? Ask yourself how many times? We've had statistical regions for a year. No single meeting at the level of these regions in terms of the rounding of projects, programmes and their inclusion in those to be financed by the European Union. So it was waiting for a new composition of the government. For what? Why? Please, so we could still make big moves if we wanted to, if we knew there was political will. Unfortunately, I don't think there will be much greater success in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u100	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will skip everything that the predecessors have already said about the motives for passing such a law and its structure and its content for the simple reason that I do not think further documenting these motives is necessary. I will not be ironic or sarcastic or ridiculed even though these motives may be looking for such a kind and such discourse for the simple reason that I am among those who share concerns about the fact that here we are getting a law that was a good opportunity to make mistakes that have been observed, which have been warned over the past four years to correct. One of the predecessors said that forming, re-forming the tourism ministry is good proof that this government is correcting and correcting its mistake. Unfortunately, if there was no motive here, which is looking for a place for a minister, it probably wouldn't be fixed either. What is very important to me, and this time simply not to remain silent is the fact that Croatia is the only European country that does not have a ministry that has everyone, all other European countries. There's no address that would be responsible for social policy in this country. Unfortunately, there is no one who would be involved in designing, running social policy. In these four years, it has been a slow, isolated, individual non-coordinated, non-coordinated government measures which, in such a highly-centralised system as ours have simply been so guided that it has not been known what is the jurisdiction of which of the 3 ministries that have taken over the jobs of the former Ministry of Labour and Social Care or Social Affairs as we have everywhere in Europe. In four years, we have witnessed a really bad regulation. We can testify on a daily basis and our fellow citizens know of poor and insufficient teamwork and inadequately educated people who are involved in social affairs. We have a highly unsatisfactory information equipment and an increasing exclusion of the civil sector from the social policy area as well as an extremely non-transparent budget. Who in fact in Croatia knows and can count what these are, in fact, the social expenditures of this country when it is completely intransparently distributed by the budgets of different ministries, agencies and so on. In addition, all social reforms have been stopped in Croatia. Instead of aligning ourselves with European norms, we are just practicing what is the opposite. We practice the sharing of social rights according to the criteria of political similarity, according to trade union or politically organised groups, and not according to social opportunity criteria. Why should respected colleagues keep in mind what I'm talking about? First, because European practice shows that such ministries exist in all governments. In 2003, we reached out to the former government for an Austrian solution, forgetting that Austria is a regionalised and decentralised state and that a whole series of low-level jobs are taking place in our highly-centralised system. This has been neglected and mechanically reviewed by a system that has been proven ineffective in the field of social policy in Croatia. The second major mistake that has been made is a mistake that has led to the separation of work, employment and social affairs. Exactly the opposite of European practice because the European Commission, like the European Government, has such a portfolio of employment and social affairs for the simple reasons that that ancient Bismark, who was more than you, formed the first serious social state, had social responsibility and recognized that social rights were justified in work, and could not have imagined that the modern world of work would experience such changes as we are talking about today when it comes to work, the uncertainty and uncertainty of work that legally produce social consequences in the field of employment and unemployment and insecurity, 81% of all these new jobs we talk about are people who have been employed in such jobs, so on a contract of work, at a certain time, on temporary temporary jobs, etc. etc. Without intervention, without the concept of a state to intervene in such periods of uncertainty, it is not possible to prevent or Kunatically to say so, to act when people find themselves in really difficult situations that each of us can bear witness to let him just move a little bit out of the space in which we are moving. So, I would like to suggest to you, although I was hoping to listen to the negotiations that, perhaps, the only talk that I've heard from Milorad Pupovac, might point out this problem, that it might result in the formation of such a ministry and finally obtaining the address for responsibility in that area. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. We are waiting for the social consequences of the fact that this address is missing. Try to remember how many hours we spent in the debates about working on Sundays, talking to people with no competence or having the right authority to do so. How many times have we had the opportunity to hear from the Minister of Labour, Mr Vukelic, that he mentioned work or problems related to the field of work in this Chamber or anywhere in the public. The Ministry of Family, Intergenerational Solidarity or the Ministry of Health, and one and the other ministers felt that these were not really issues that would fall within their area. This will continue in the future, it is very likely and certain, as is certain that the cost of such a situation will be paid by those who are the poorest, socially excluded, socially endangered.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u101	Thank you very much. And finally as last in today's debate on this agenda point, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. I warn the clubs there'll be a vote soon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the special law can only be passed by emergency procedure when the interests of the defence and other particularly justified state reasons are required, i.e. when necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. I personally believe that this law was not meant to go by emergency procedure but was to go into regular procedure, since here we were and witnesses that nothing important happened in the Republic of Croatia when there was no Prime Minister in the Republic of Croatia for almost 10 days. When I say nothing important, there is no reduced unemployment, fortunately there is no increased external debt and it is only looking good what happened in the Republic of Croatia. But the same government, I recall, didn't meet when it was that boar hunting case, when, by emergency procedure, a Croatian general was relocated to The Hague, when the Internet minister resigned, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not meet at all. I also believe that this proposal, along with this proposal, and especially for tomorrow's agenda point and after this month and a half of the agreement of the programme and how we had the opportunity to hear that the programme was first, not the names and chairs, the ministerial chair. I think, and that would be good for the current majority MPs in this House, too, if they got the government's programme so they wouldn't have to decide on their minds and so the prime minister wouldn't have to offer bail cards again, they had spent it a long time ago. And this particular program and this material and document should be what MPs should decide on. At least there are controversial names related to the very proposal of this kind of structure, the formation of the government, I believe that I support no ministry, and I would like some MPs to understand that the art of democracy and to be heard, but also to listen. I believe that only the formation of the Ministry of Regional Development will not contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia in the same way as the Regional Development Fund did where almost 98% of the funds were distributed by a very well-known winged "knowledge", and only 2% of the funds went towards units of local and regional self-government, where HDZ was not in power. I believe that the only thing that can start Croatia is the real, or fiscal decentralisation of Croatia. Only greater income to local self-government and regional self-government units can lead to the launch and economy and the reduction of unemployment in Slavonia and the recovery of Slavonia, which must catch up with all other parts of Croatia. In the end, I would like to say that for this law not only is it adopted by an emergency procedure, and for a government like this, which was made not by negotiations and agreement of the programme in a month and a half, but by pure political trade and the creation of a new administration, I will not vote. And I finally thank you, and that's why there's a documented television video. I thank the gentleman who gave me a compliment in the first report, and that compliment speaks more of him than of me. He'll recognize himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-01-11-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, thank you very much for your very encouraging presentation. Does the Proposer, Mr. Representative, want on behalf of the Proposer Mr. Representative? No, you wouldn't. Does the Deputy Prime Minister want it? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate and putting it to the vote. For this Act, one note, it takes 77 MPs to be voted upon. So, 77 MPs. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 81 votes for, against 58 and 3 abstentions, are passed by this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, tomorrow we continue this same session at 9:00 and 30 minutes with the proposed agenda points. I wish you all a good holiday and I'll see you tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I wish everyone a good day on the second day of work of the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on to the rest of the agenda. We finished one yesterday. We continue with the point - Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote on confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Madam and gentlemen of the MPs, let me briefly remind you of the constitutional position and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia exercises executive power and is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Republic shall, pursuant to Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia entrusts the mandate for the assembly of the Government to the person who, based on the distribution of seats in the Croatian Parliament and the consultations carried out, enjoys the trust of most of the MPs. In accordance with Article 109 of the Treaty on The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the members of the Government a person to whom the President of the Republic has entrusted the mandate for the composition of the Government. Immediately after the formation of the Government and no later than 30 days after the adoption of the mandate, the Prime Minister is required to present the programme to the Croatian Parliament and ask for a vote of confidence. I ask the Prime Minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivo Sanader, to address the representatives. Here you go.
