ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3811	... PRESIDENT: - Final draft law confirming the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on tobacco surveillance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 12... emergency procedure unites first and second reading. [[Home is not saved.]] Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Mr Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3812	Mr. President, honourable MPs. The Republic of Croatia became members of the World Health Organization on 11 June 1992. By joining this international organisation, we have agreed to promote objectives that include international cooperation in the field of health improvements. 56. On 21 May 2003, the World Health Organization Assembly adopted a Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. The Framework Convention entered into force on 27 February 2005, which was ratified by forty states. So far, the Framework Convention has been signed by 168 countries and ratified by 152 countries, of which 23 members of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia signed the Framework Convention in New York on 2 June 2004. The Framework Convention aims to protect current and future generations from harmful health, social, environmental and economic consequences of the use of tobacco products and exposure to tobacco smoke. The Framework Convention is a single public-health document globally aimed at improving human health, reducing tobacco use and exposure to tobacco smoke while also focusing on protecting the environment and the economy. The Framework Convention contains measures aimed at reducing demand and supply of tobacco such as measures to reduce tobacco demand, protection against exposure to tobacco smoke, regulation of tobacco products, obligation to publish tobacco content and tobacco smoke emissions, packaging obligation and labelling of tobacco products, with clear and visible health warnings, education and public reporting, ban on advertising of promotion and sponsorship. The measures also include all forms of preventing illicit trafficking in tobacco products, including smuggling, illicit production and counterfeiting, banning the sale of tobacco products to minors and supporting the introduction of economically sustainable replacement activities. For each State which ratifys the Framework Convention, the same shall enter into force on the 90th day following the date of its ratification document. By confirming the Framework Convention, the Republic of Croatia will join the Member States of the European Union which have ratified the Framework Convention so far, thus confirming the consistency of this active policy in the field of health protection and prevention and control of tobacco use and tobacco products. Taking into account the fact that the Republic of Croatia annually allocates significant resources to ensure the health care of persons suffering from smoking. The long-term implementation of the proposed law will also have positive effects on the Croatian economy. In addition to certain comments on the urgency of the procedure, it is related to the provision of Article 11 of the Framework Convention, which indicates that packaging and labelling of tobacco products must be applied within three years of the time of adoption of the Framework Convention and a comprehensive prohibition of advertising and sponsorship which should be in accordance with the Constitution and constitutional principles of the State Party shall be provided for by the parties to take action within five years of the date of entry into force of the Convention but in order to clarify the meanings from the date of 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3813	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3814	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We took the budget last night and we can go back to reality this morning. My colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the Law on Confirmation of the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. This proposal clearly shows where Croatia belongs and cultural and political. These countries have ratified us no less than 152 countries, and we are only doing so today in March 2008. What can we conclude? We can conclude that the Croatian government is completely unoriented in the time in which we live. The medical profession has long said its own, warned about the harmfulness of smoking, scientists have argued it and I believe everyone is convinced. But that obviously meant nothing to Croatian state policy all these years, but nothing at all. Here, after years of reflection, the Croatian Government has offered us this convention for confirmation with the explanation that I hope you have read. In that explanation and now the secretary of state has just read part of the argument there is only one too many sentences. I'll read it one more time. Taking into account the fact that the Republic of Croatia annually allocates significant resources to ensure the health care of persons suffering from smoking will have positive effects on the Croatian economy long-term implementation of the proposed law. But nothing more concrete than that. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I decided to use the arguments of the Hungarian government that came up with this proposal before the Hungarian parliamentarians exactly two years ago, so you will easily compare certain parameters. Hungary has 10 million, we are slightly less than half that number and the figures will be given very easily then, conveyed and compared to opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. He came to the Hungarian Parliament as health minister and reported that the health ministry is spending 800 billion forints, which is about 3.2 billion euros on the treatment of smoking-related diseases. He informed Hungarian parliamentarians and the Hungarian public that he is dying annually in Hungary from diseases associated with the smoking of 28 thousand Hungarian citizens. If we beat it in half, we get one scary number of deaths a year that is equal to or almost equal to the total number of deaths in the Homeland War. A terriblely large number. Then he was at the meeting and the education minister said Hungary spent 80 million forints a year on a smoking campaign. He reported very closely on the campaign and told the population of which the campaign, primarily adolescents and then young people up to 30 years of age, was clearly targeted, with clear arguments. Then the interior minister came in and said that after Hungary had put a lot of pressure on tobacco and tobacco products, the sale of cigarettes fell by about 30% in Hungary, but that the black market worked and that in Hungary about 25 to 28% was compensated for what was lost through legal sales, that it had worked out the black market. We don't know anything about that. Not a single argument, not a single number, a humiliating explanation that I cannot be satisfied with when it comes to such a serious matter, a serious problem. Then the finance minister came to the session and said that they very rigorously charge fines to those who smoke in places where smoking is not allowed, so he reported exactly how many individuals paid 20 thousand forints and how many companies paid 2 million for each such offence. Very clear. He then informed parliamentarians in the Hungarian Parliament that the few dozen million forints charged from penalties are directed towards health care, according to preventive and therapeutic projects. We certainly didn't get a chance to hear from any of those ministers today, which I don't think is good. The Hungarians have even received insights as a Member State of the European Union into everything that is happening in the European Union and have been told that the European Union is spending on the treatment of smoking-related diseases of 100 billion euros per year in the European Union countries. 100 billion euros. It has been said that 70m euros will be spent in the 2006, 2007 and 2008 anti-smoking campaign, again detailing what will be done with this money and what is the most terrible number, that in the European Union, 650 thousand citizens die annually from smoking diseases. We believe at the HNS club that we should have gotten at least some of this data. That we should have made known to all Croatian citizens that they know which direction we will work for the next months and years and why we will do so. My colleagues and colleagues, I won't owe it, there's no point in persuasing what we have in this proposal in explanation, but I'll just say that according to us, the government is very late with this law, very late with the implementation of the proposed measures, very carelessly dealing with this problem, which is extremely harmful to all of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3815	Thank you. We have two corrections. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3816	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed representative has made several incorrect allegations, I'll list three. First, he said the government of the Republic of Croatia is completely disoriented about the protection of smokers and non-smokings, which is not true at all. The Republic of Croatia is among the first European countries to pass the first smoking ban law in the workplaces since 2003. After that, we passed a smoking ban law in health and education institutions. We are one of the initiators of this framework agreement here, we have a respected member of the World Health Organization of the President of Croatia who is currently working on this smoking ban section. The government, therefore, is not disoriented but has been strongly oriented and spent for 15 years systematically among the first countries in Europe to fight the adverse effects of nicotine. The fact that a colleague pointed out that we don't know anything about these consequences is also not true. The Minister of Health has come forward just the last few weeks and presented terrible data for Croatia, and a detailed explanation will certainly give when he will defend the law that is in the works and that comes before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3817	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3818	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He fixed his colleague. It is incorrect that this government is disoriented to the problem of smoking. In 1974, she already passed a smoking ban law at work. She had a series of actions that alerted her to smoking harmfulness, however, the problem that our society is intolerant to the problem of smoking at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3819	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3820	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We all know that smoking is harmful and smokers know it. Unfortunately, though, people smoke and harm themselves and those next to them. That is why this pay phone and this location are also an opportunity to speak not only of the law as such, that is, this Framework Convention but also of fact of taking advantage of the occasion and to act reluctantly against all those who actually abuse smoking for their health and for the health of others. So here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm going to bring up a few data relating to this matter exactly that way. A billion and 300 million people are estimated to smoke in the world. Five million die a year, which would mean, and according to the World Health Organization, that every eight seconds of smoking in the world, one man dies. Unless something significant is done globally, the consequences of smoking are estimated to be doubled by 2030. Croatia has also defeated results at this time, according to World Health Organization data, when it comes to the percentage of smoking and therefore the percentage of smokers in Croatia is 27.4%. So according to last year's World Health Organization data. We are better, colleague Doric than the mentioned Hungary, because with them the problem is even bigger. So 33.8% of people smoke with them, we're better than Macedonia, Bulgaria, Russia, unfortunately we're worse than Ireland, much more than Austria, of course we're far behind Finland and Sweden, where everything smokes 17.5% of people. Smoking is so-called. A socially acceptable habit, but very dangerous. In Croatia, as I have already said, every third person is a smoker and 10,000 people in Croatia die from smoking. Why is smoking so bad? It is known that tobacco smoke contains about 4,000 chemical ingredients, and nicotine is only one of them and is responsible for addiction. Smoking directly related to the onset of heart disease and blood vessels. As many as 50 tar ingredients have been shown to form tumors. The tobacco smoke contains irritants that ultimately lead to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. According to World Health Organization, smoking causes 90% to 90% of bronch and lung tumours. 45 to 50% of other neoplasms and 20 to 25% of heart and blood vessels, 75 to 85% of deaths from chronic obstructive lung disease. Carbon oxide binds 200 times faster to the hemoglobin than oxygen, which means that smokers are constantly 10 to 15% of the hemoglobin, they're just always thirsty for oxygen. In pregnant women who smoke, the consequences are even more difficult. Less body weight of the foetus, sudden infant mortality. Smoking also has a harmful effect on reproductive health, ulcerative disease, and many things. But it's not enough just not to smoke. The risk of dying from a corromary disease is 25% higher in non-smoking people exposed to tobacco smoke than those who are not. Children who breathe smoke have frequent bronchitis, asthma, acute and chronic middle ear inflammation, sudden mortality syndrome, as I have already mentioned, is also higher in them. According to the world survey on the use of tobacco in young people. In 132 countries, 7 hundred million children aged 13 to 15 are exposed to passive smoking. Of which is 44% home, 55% public place. As many as 76% have pleaded for a ban on smoking in a public place. At the same time, there is an increase in the production and sale of cigarettes in poor countries that are already burdened with all the consequences of poverty and certainly with disease. Tobacco, i.e. tobacco smoke, both in smokers and in those who are passively exposed, has the same effect. He's poisoned and cancerous. It's particularly worrying about the increase in smoking at the earliest age. The reason for this is sometimes low health enlightenment and information, and on the other hand, channels that the tobacco industry manages to advertise despite legal bans. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports this bill. Article 1 The World Health Organisation Framework Conventions on Tobacco Control define the concepts of illicit trade, regional economic integration, advertising and promotion of tobacco products and smoke, tobacco control, tobacco industry, tobacco products. In the second part of this document, i.e. Articles 3, 4 and 5 define the purpose, guidelines of the Convention, and general obligations, or simpler and clear, the purpose of the Convention is to protect current and future generations from all harmful consequences of smoking at national regional and international global level. Therefore, the adoption of this Convention is a clear commitment of this Government and all of us, and a clear desire for a final account with this major and public health problem. When it comes to guidelines for the implementation of this Convention, they shall include the information of each individual on the consequences of smoking, a political decision aimed at calculating multidisciplinaryly at all levels with this addiction, international cooperation, the importance of civil society and support to plan sustainable development in the development strategies of certain countries and have control over tobacco cultivation. This Convention also provides for all ministries and all those who make plans and programmes and are related to public health, health, to build on the elements in order for this Convention to actually be active. The government's decision to support this Convention is, in fact, clear and clear to the knowledge in which direction the Government is heading, this government is going when it comes to this big, public health problem. Now I would no longer speak of the Convention because Mr. Secretary of State has actually presented here the basic element of this Convention which actually binds this Government and this society. In conclusion, on behalf of the HDZ Club, smoking is the largest but avoids the risk factor for health. The exposure to smoke has undoubtedly been proven to lead to sickness, disability and death. There's no light in smoking. Of all the forms of warning in different forms of packing cigarettes, it is best not to smoke. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control as a powerful tool in the fight against smoking, this major public-health problem as I have said at global and national level. The HDZ Club also gives full support to the Minister and here to the current State Secretary for the adoption of the announced Law on smoking in a public place as a means of protecting smokers and not smokers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3821	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3822	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that by adopting this Convention, the Government has expressed its full commitment against non-smoking. If that's not how it shows the fact that a box of common gum you buy when you want to leave costs like three of the most expensive boxes of cigarettes, and that's your dose in three days. And that even the least serious pills cost you over two thousand kunas. So until this government starts treating smoking as an addiction and a disease, and in this sense actually conceiving both therapy and treatment, I can't accept the fact that this government is seriously thinking about dealing with smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3823	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3824	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. This must be one commendable initiative that almost begs us to accept the World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. So far, the government has been in Croatia, but in fact all governments have been monitoring and protecting the monopoly of a company. Probably because some former prime ministers share in the same. And on the other hand, when someone becomes as powerful as that company, then politics depends on that company far more than the company depends on the behaviour of some of the governments. On the other hand, the 2008 state budget will provide less money than was spent in 2007. 0.8% or 159 million kuna, and that's a terrible thing to say, and now that it's going to be done to compensate, introduce more prices for drugs, which will be impossible again because the Atlantic group has taken over 100 pharmacies. The prices of services are likely to rise, participations will be extended. You'd better make them mandatory. But about that later. In the assessment of the situation and the basic issues covered by the proposed law, and the consequences that the law will literally result from are said to be based on those principles and given the fact that smoking and exposure to tobacco smoke are a leading risk factor in health that causes almost five million deaths worldwide annually. And then the Framework Convention is said to contain measures relating to reducing the demand for tobacco including price fixing, taxation, focus on reducing demand for tobacco as well as measures that do not concern price fixing, protection against exposure to tobacco smoke, regulation of tobacco products, obligation to publish tobacco content and tobacco smoke emissions, packaging and labelling of tobacco products, with clear and visible health warnings, education, public reporting, etc. etc. The first thing I want to say is the surprise that Croatia has not ratified this convention before. So far, that convention has been signed by 168 states. Croatia signed the convention in 2004 and ratified these 168 states, 152 of which 23 European Union countries. The fact itself means that this convention has been ratified by 152 countries, but not Croatia more precisely that it takes 3 years for ratification to speak and that politics is being led in Croatia and to whom it is favored. I'm not talking about the state right now, but I can say that in some ways the state is in trouble. I have the impression that some behavior here controls group capital and that we understand each other there's no big difference when it comes to tobacco between these or former governments. That's the point. Because if it were different, then the question so-called. tourism land, and a monopoly over that tobacco would have a state and not a private company. To be clear, I'm against the monopoly, always except from my court that I'm not joking. But this convention, which is an introduction to the Law on smoking in public places, is certainly one useful thing. But let's take it somehow, and I'll also relate to the part of Mr. Bagaric's discussion. Interestingly, the percentage of smokers in the old members of the European Union is 28.4%. So he's slightly higher than in Croatia where that percentage is 27.4%. For example, in one Austria, 29% of citizens smoke. In Croatia 1.6% less. So, 27.4% of Austrians mentioned means smoking more than we do and smoking far more in the new members of the European Union than in Croatia. It's 30.3% on average. We have 27.4%. Otherwise, in Serbia, as Mr. Bagaric said, 36% of citizens smoke, in Bosnia and Herzegovina 37.6%, in Albania as much as 9%. Less of us smoke Slovenians 23.7%. Italians 24%, Irish 23.9%, and I'm not counting any further. Why did the world reach for this convention, i.e. joined a smoking ban in that public place. When was the last time I was in America knowing that you couldn't smoke in a hotel room, and even in some parks, that was just when I was fraternized. For example, Slovenia, Italy, etc. is on the trail today. And the Americans were simply calculated. So, tax revenues on that tobacco, profit tax, income tax is far less than the costs of their health system, i.e. The damage they suffer, insurance companies due to sudden deaths, diseases, etc. Interestingly, in passive smokers, it's us who don't smoke smoking bans in public places that reduces the risk of heart attack by 25%, bronch cancer by 30%. I took it off myself, etc. Clearly, it is nothing but this knowledge that smoking in Croatia dies annually between 8800 and 11,000 people. In the world before I said, I read this data from the reasoning of the law a year about 5 million people die. Costs of the treatment of premature death etc. They're about 200 billion dollars in the world. In Croatia, every fifth person dies of smoking diseases. Otherwise, Croatia is still in '73. Forbade smoking in the workplace. You could say that's the '73. Croatia was one of the first countries in the world to know or know or introduce such a ban. Of course she never operated later, but we had that law. '99. For years, we have passed the law to highlight on cigarette boxes the label that tobacco damages health, but it seems so decently, that almost at the end of one design decoration became that box of cigarettes. But on the other hand, if we did it in the same way as the Slovenians or the Italians did, we'd put on two-thirds of the box those dead heads and everything would be the same. It is clear that the law that we will pass after the ratification of this Convention will raise a few more questions, such as smoking in restaurants. There will also be questions as to how hypocritical it is for the legislator to prohibit smoking on one side, for example in cafes, i.e. in public places, and on the other hand that our tobacco is absolutely legal and available in the right sense of that word to everyone. The state of that means tax collection. People are dying. The fact is that smoking until recently, as Mr. Bagaric said, was a socially acceptable addiction. In one study in New York about the presence of carbon dioxide in the air, there was 6% of that gas in Central Park, in a tunnel in New York City, 11%, in smoked cafes 88%. The thesis that started spinning around the media that the state will lose to excise duties, someone says as much as one billion kuna a year, I'm talking about Croatia, it just doesn't stand. The data from Italy say that in the first year of the ban on the consumption of cigarettes fell by 8%. But already in the next one was up 1% compared to last year's. The one before the ban was imposed. So initially there will be resistance to this standard in Croatia. Some cafes may lose or lose some of the traffic and it is in the state to take this into account when writing laws how, so for example. In one year, cafes, restaurants get some relief, I don't know. in the second year of 6.6%, in the third year, 3.3% I don't know. So, on those obligations that go towards the state. After that, I think everything's going to be the same as before, just like it was about this ridiculous 0.0 promiscuous law. First people were careful, then slowly returning to normal, but the state for these situations of loss of traffic and the like in any of its entities must be extremely sensitive. As a result of smoking, 36% of men under 70 and 13% of women die. He's in the U.S. in '64. They smoked 40% of Americans. So today about 40 and a few years later, only 22%. So this trend is present we see in Croatia, but the tobacco industry is clear that it is increasingly subtle towards young generations and then after a cigarette joint, etc. And we know where it's often just going. What Croatia should introduce before introducing an additional kuna or two on a pack of cigarettes as announced by Health Minister Mlinaric and says it will be directed and according to health care is that they are particularly taxing monopolies, where the rate should be significantly higher with 30% and should then be clearly directed towards health care. I think it would be in accordance with Article 6 of this Convention if I didn't quote it now, but let's let it go now. The resistance to smoking bans will certainly be strong. Cigarette manufacturers are present today throughout a number of social activities. They are present in the press, so in the distribution of newspapers, in the media and elsewhere. Advertising campaigns by these companies to make huge profits to Croatian broadcasters, in newspapers, etc.. And the battle will clearly not be here only with tobacco producers but also with part of that media space in the Republic of Croatia. That I'm right to testify and this release of a smoking ban. First it was said in public that the ban would follow in 2008, and now it is said to be extended and that the ban will take effect sometime before summer or probably after summer 2009. To begin with, and to say that, I think we could test this convention at this constituency bar down from a mile called the crematorium. Also interesting is this article of the 15th Restraint of all forms of smuggling. Maybe you should take a look at some Latino for that. But lastly, it will be interesting when the law under this convention comes into force, what will be the consequences of the law, and will we help the caterers because of the loss of income that will surely follow at least some of them, I mean cafes, etc.? Clearly in the first years more, later less and less. So it's for the end. We're absolutely at a club for this convention, but parallel to seeing the caterers through certain kinds of things to say benefits. The government must be me, I'd say, sensitive enough for those little caters such as big and powerful tobacco manufacturers. So these small hosts also need to be helped in some way because the fact is that they will get in trouble. All in all, I think it is clear to everyone and also to the tobacco industry in Croatia that this convention will be ratified, that the law will be passed, and after that, forms will be found to avoid certain legal norms.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3825	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting two false allegations that Mr. Cain's exact thesis is that everyone who smokes cigarettes goes to the jointt means that half of Croatia... Yes, read it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That means half of Croatia would be on the joint. Then comes the other thesis, who smokes the joint and stings. I mean, these are incorrect thesis. That's what the second one says. Another allegation is incorrect that it is exclusively the smoker and the smoking problem that the manufacturers are tobacco. Be careful, if that were true then in Croatia there wouldn't be a problem with drugs. Because as far as I know, no one in Croatia produces drugs. If there wasn't a tobacco manufacturer, they'd probably buy cigarettes in black, considering it's about addiction. So smoking is a disease. Let's get out of this. Repressive methods and bans will not solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3827	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Maria Petir. ... You didn't get the word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3828	Mr. Vice President, MPs, MPs, Mr. Secretary of State! The use is an ideal time to make good and positive decisions. In any case, one of these decisions can also be a decision to quit smoking. Unfortunately, after the end of the benefits, they give up much of their good decisions and unfortunately find themselves in black statistics. According to the latest information in Croatia, as a result of smoking or tobacco smoke-related diseases, 10,000 people die annually. The Croatian Parliament is here today discussing a tobacco control convention that Croatia signed in 2004. And I'm glad that we're going to ratify it now. What we are also interested in at the club of representatives of the HSS is the almost adoption of a new tobacco and tobacco law in which, in our opinion, in addition to the ban on smoking in public places, we should also consider increasing tobacco taxes and increasing cigarette prices. In fact, it is quite clear that the tobacco industry is ready for anything and that sometimes it often behaves on the market in a way that money can be bought all but what I think each of us is becoming aware is that health cannot buy money. And according to the World Health Organization in Croatia, 27.4% of smokers, together with smokers under the age of 18 and more than 36%. It is true that in 1973, Croatia banned smoking in the workplace and that we actually hit among the first foundations of such one form of behaviour. In the 1990s, the Commission for the Prevention of Smoking was established in the Resoring Ministry and 99. The assembly passed a law on restricting tobacco and tobacco use. It was, therefore, one of the most advanced laws in Europe, which also brought the label on the pack of cigarettes to the danger of smoking and the ban on smoking in closed public spaces. Since 2002, a doctor’s education has been intensively started and a non - smoking school is open. Despite all these activities, however, it is evident that the number of smokers is still growing. There are 1.3 billion active smokers in the world. Every eight seconds, one person dies of some disease caused by tobacco smoke. With every breath of tobacco smoke, more than 4,000 different chemicals enter the body of smokers, of which at least forty causes cancer. The smoker breathes and breathes smoke eight to nine times with each cigarette on average every 24 seconds, but the cigarette burns for 12 minutes, and it pollutes the air all the time. The smoke that goes into the air has a higher concentration of harmful substances than the smoke ingested by the smoker. Carbon monoxide stays in the blood for hours. People who smoke one box a day have 50% higher frequency of hospitalization and work and school absences. Smoking is by itself responsible for as much as 30% of all cancer patients. Even one or two cigarettes can cause an increase in blood pressure, an acceleration of the pulse, and a reduction in blood circulation in the body. About 80% of all lung cancer cases happen to smokers. The heart of a smoker on average beats 10 to 20 in a minute faster than the heart of a non-smoker. The mortality rate starts to drop in former smokers a year after smoking stopped. Even after two hours of ventilation in the previously smoky room, the concentration of harmful nicotine ingredients is still above the allowed limit. Smoking drivers cause more car accidents than non-smoking drivers. Insurance companies charge more to smokers. 19% of major fires were caused by smoking. Smokers have twice as many accidents as nonsmokers. Today, smokers hope to think much more seriously about the interruption of smoking because normally in society there is an opinion that those who smoke are considered weak. According to the World Health Organization's report on the global epidemic of smoking and nicotine poisoning, it is reported that the number of deaths associated with the effects of smoking will result in up to 8 million deaths by 2030. During the 20th century, tobacco killed some 100 million people in the world and by the end of the 21st century, billions of people could die from various diseases caused by tobacco and nicotine. If we do nothing, the number of deaths associated with the effects of smoking by 2030 could reach 8 million people who are really terrified. What is too little to talk about, and we are always more focused on those who are the cause of something bad in society than on those who suffer from these consequences are passive smokers who are indeed a vulnerable group because they are exposed to different behaviors of reckless smokers. And the risks associated with passive smoking could be twice as high as previously thought, according to the latest study done in the UK. It has been found that passive smoking causes the risk of heart disease by 50 to 60% more than previously thought. A study conducted in Southern California showed that children whose domestic smokes are more often left out of school due to respiratory - related diseases. In a study involving nearly 2,000 fourth - grade primary school students, children whose homes smoke from other children have four times more chances of missing out of school due to coughing and colding. Previous studies have also shown that children of smokers' parents have a 60% higher risk of asthma. Passive smoking damages children’s blood vessels, and I don’t think sometimes many parents are aware of what they are doing to their children. It has also been shown that children of parents who often smoke in their presence in blood have up to 50 times the level of harmful compound that narrows blood vessels. A study published in a specialized three-month-old British medical association shows that banning smoking at work is the best way to prevent non-smokers from their fellow smokers from earning a heart attack. In people who have never smoked the possibility of suffering from acute heart disease, 47% are higher if they have been exposed occasionally or regularly. Secondary smoking, it's in that study. The risk also increases with the length of the time period during which the person was exposed to cigarette smoke. Scientists observed 847 Greeks with heart disease and a thousand 78 who had no heart problems. And this is really one of the interesting data. Among patients, 86% were exposed to secondary smoking for more than half an hour a day. A significantly lower percentage of 56% was exposed to cigarette smoke among healthy subjects. So, the only sure way to protect non-smokers from exposure to smoke cigarettes is to eliminate this health risk from public spaces and jobs as well as from homes. Since as many as three-quarters of smoke - lit cigarettes remain and slowly spreads through the room, the remaining quarter of the smoker breathes in and re-exhales. He is not only jeopardizing his own but also the health of all those who dwell in his surroundings and do not smoke. It endangers family members, relatives, friends and colleagues in the workplace and everyone else in public spaces, restaurants, cafes and waiting rooms. The HSS Club will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3829	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First of all, she's a respected representative, Mrs. Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3830	Dear Vice President, here's a colleague who said one inaccuracy, that is, this claim is not entirely correct in any case, so it needs to be corrected - health cannot be bought with money. Unfortunately, at a time when the state is becoming less and less social and increasingly developing social, health has unfortunately become the best selling goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3831	Thank you. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3832	Thank you very much. Since there were more allegations, especially this data, but well perhaps Mrs. Petyr has found some sources that I haven't encountered, and I'm only going to correct one false allegation. It's actually that smokers are weak and that smoking is weak. Such a thesis is dangerous. Why? Because she implies that smoking isn't a disease. Because if smoking wasn't a disease then the representatives of the Ministry of Health would not be sitting here, but probably the Ministry of the Interior, and I think it's important for this debate to define that smoking is a disease. Because if it's not smoking, then let's go talk in a different way and talk about some other conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3833	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Surely all of us in Parliament feel satisfaction when we receive material on the benches, or a document that contributes to promoting the health of our citizens. That is why, at the beginning of the SDP Club, we support the law confirming the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, whose provisions would become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. But at the same time, we're wondering, what's been waiting three years? The World Health Organization is always trying to fight for its goal, and the goal is the highest level of health standards for all people in the world. The Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which was created in response to the general globalisation that has been paved by the opening of international borders, has actually paved the way for easier spread of tobacco products around the world. In fact, the pandemic of smoking presents a global public health problem. Smoking kills more people than a car accident, than alcohol, fire and murder, suicide, drugs and AIDS together. Out of the total number of deaths caused by smoking, half die in a working productive age and lose an average of about 20 years of life. The effects of smoking are maintained not only on human health by causing various diseases, disability, premature death, but also on social economic opportunities in everyday life. Reduced working capacity, absence from work, increased health care costs, treatment, rehabilitation, are a major economic burden for every community. The harmful effects of smoking mainly nicotine and carbon monoxide indicate the following data. The 95 deaths of lung cancer were smokers. Infarct smokers, myocardial disease is 40 times more common than non-smokers. 70 to 80% of the deaths due to obstructive lung disease were smokers. Every eight seconds of the consequence of smoking in the world dies one smoker. Smokers often seek medical help and hospitalization, more often go to sick leave. The World Health Organization estimates that close to 700 million children or almost every other child in the world is exposed to passive smoking of adults. We heard the same information from a colleague. A child who spends an hour in a smoky room with several smokers or in a closed car with one smoker breathes as much harmful chemicals as when a smoker smokes 10 or more cigarettes. We are considering how we will protect our children and in a parenting home from our own parents. According to the ESPA survey on the expansion of tobacco smoking in 15-year-olds in Croatia a few years ago, 70% of 15-year-olds tried a cigarette at least once in their lives, and the percentage of regular smokers among those children is growing. He smokes 30% of 15-year-old boys and 25% of girls every day. Although Croatia is legally prohibited from selling tobacco to people under 18 years of age, 96% of those 15-year-olds here declare that cigarettes are available to them and certainly daily we have examples that we are present to children to sell cigarettes even though the law exists. The effects of smoking tobacco for health clearly indicate that smoking is a disease to be prevented and treated as well as other addiction diseases. This Framework Convention, as we have heard so far, consists of guidelines that seek to reduce the offer and demand for tobacco that the countries of the signatories of the agreement will need to respect. The guidelines for protection against exposure to tobacco smoke are as follows: I am now not repeating what Mr. Secretary of State has told us. It is mentioned regulation of the content of tobacco products, public disclosure of content information, regulation of packaging, labelling of tobacco products, public education, advertising regulation, sponsorship, etc. prevention programmes that are very important in which education and prevention should be included in preschoolers, school children and students. Then there is also a systematic increase in prices and taxes that customers will have to allocate for their vice. I believe that there is a need to raise the level of public awareness on issues related to tobacco control. Operational programmes, operational objectives of the programme actually relate to the role and assignment of state institutions and professional professions. Why do I say professional professions? Why is it that every preventive program when it comes to the health of our children and anyone else, we can never look at separate health care and education, because usually prevention programs can be spent through schools. The World Health Organization emphasises that so far from all these measures relating to the reduction of tobacco demand, it is certainly taxing or pricing policy that it is very effective or that there should be a stricter fiscal policy. It is recognised that a comprehensive ban on advertising of promotion and sponsorship will also reduce the use of tobacco products. Namely, the World Health Organization calls smoking a portable disease because it is transmitted by advertising and sponsorship, and tobacco companies invest millions of dollars each year to sponsor sports events. Let's also think of advertising alcohol. Health protection must be given priority over the profit from tobacco production. This Convention encourages the adoption and implementation of measures to prevent the sale of tobacco products to minors. These measures may also include a ban on any way to sell tobacco products where tobacco products are available. The purpose of the Convention is to protect current and future generations from harmful health and social, environmental, economic consequences of tobacco use and exposure to tobacco smoke. But as Article 4 says, strong political commitment is needed to develop and support comprehensive multi-sectoral measures and coherent action at national, regional levels. And finally, once again, we support this Convention in the hope that, as soon as possible, we will contribute to the control of tobacco in reducing the supply and demand of tobacco harmful effects which, of course, aim to protect the present and future generations. Without an active policy of concrete action plans, good health care remains an empty framework from which we cannot expect health protection. And I hope that profit won't be more important than health and let's not wait for it to repeat that data from the world, every eight seconds dying one man at a time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3835	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. ... I didn't hear exactly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3836	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs! When the great American writer and piper Mark Twain asked how to quit smoking, then he said nothing easier, I did it a hundred times. This Convention and this Bill proposal will clearly be supported by the HDSSB's Club of Representatives because it is actually expected for a long time because it is quite clear from previous exposure to the harmfulness of smoking, the damages resulting from ineffectiveness, the ineffectiveness of people who use tobacco, therefore, in their work and in their work, right. So, what I should say with all the basics of health and according to others, according to our work skills when we look at it, it is really time for Croatia to adopt, the Republic of Croatia has ratified this Convention and we adopt this bill. Smokers say not everyone gets lung cancer. However, it is clear from these exposures that 95% of those who are suffering from lung cancer are smokers. There are a number of reasons why, which are already mentioned here, I would not repeat them, but I must say that with these restrictive measures that are here in this Convention and that we are going to ratify and adopt in the bill, therefore restrictive measures towards smokers, against tobacco users and tobacco processing, and in some hands and restrictions, so a little bit of repression, we must also think about being one to say the combination in terms of what Mr. Lucin said here, that smoking is still a disease of addiction. If we have heard from our colleague here that there is and that we should invest in smoking prevention, I personally think that we should invest in, and bring certain measures that should be resolved and treatment of smoking addiction. So, according to some surveys conducted among smokers, 70% of them have the will and desire to quit smoking. 10% are ambitious opinions, and 20% are to say tough smokers who don't think about stopping smoking. Now, as a society, how can we as a state help at least those 70 percent stop smoking. I come from a region where tobacco production is therefore from Herzegovina, in which tobacco production was once a basic activity. I'm a doctor again, and then here's what I have a doubt about, somewhere in the war, in the special police department, I started smoking at 42. And I belong to that group 80%. And listening to these discussions and from my own knowledge, I don't need too much data on the health harmfulness of smoking, I bought for 130 kuna those "Nicorete Banders" and I'll stop smoking. And in accordance with this Convention and this Proposal for a Law. So there are people who can't single out 130 kunas for such an attempt, at least try. There are other methods of treatment for smoking addiction. I think that, in our proposals regarding curative treatment of smoking addiction, this should also be included in the measures to be covered by the financial and Croatian Health Insurance Institute. To achieve this combination that I have spoken and to some extent the repressive part, but also to say the medical part of prevention but also curative, thus preventing or treating addiction to smoking because it is indeed a disease. Well, I've decided that the more they say I'm not sick, and here's since this discussion is what it is, the more I'm going to pick up cigarettes here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3837	I thank the honourable representative. And it would be good for others to accept it that way. At 11 o'clock and 10 minutes, so this moment is over time for individual applications. And we're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3838	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The preamble to the Constitution of the World Health Organization states that enjoying the greatest possible health standard is one of the fundamental rights of every man regardless of race and religion. But also in the statistics of the World Health Organization that we know, it is the same that the leading risk factor in people's health is smoking and exposure to tobacco smoke. Of course, the cause of disease and death is almost 5 million people worldwide annually. Following this, the World Health Organization, as we heard in 2003, adopted a Framework Convention which entered into force in 2004 but also signed, not to repeat now what my colleagues said, signed 168, 152 ratifications. It is a fundamental public health document at global level that serves to improve health and, of course, reduce exposure to tobacco smoke and demand. There are measures that are said by Mr. Secretary of State and colleagues in front of me, I would not repeat, but which in our case are significant, of course, measures to reduce demand, these are prices etc. and these other measures of exposure and protection against tobacco smoke, which are already in place in the European Union and will eventually come into force with us. Croatia became a member of the World Health Organization in 1992, which we also heard was signed by the Framework Convention. In accordance with Article 140, when we adopt this Framework Convention, it will be incorporated into the foundations of our country's legal order, which I have no doubt. That's what we've heard, and I don't want to repeat myself, but my wish in this place is to emphasize something else. So we heard that nearly 10,000 of our citizens die annually because of the consequences of smoking, 27.4% is a smoker but we heard last week when there were discussions about the budget and especially in the health system where to save, where to save in the health system. So maybe one answer, for the consequences of treatment for smoking and exposure to tobacco smoke, is that almost 2 billion kuna is used for these needs in our health system, so here's the answer to that part. And so also colleagues, Doric, may also have had the economic part of the company as well, because a colleague of Bonačić had previously said that people who smoke are probably more out of work, often using sick leave, etc. So we're all aware of these circumstances etc. And what do you do under these circumstances? Of course, the legislator will say his own, but I would like to draw attention to Article 12 of the same Framework Convention, which says: "Education, data giving, training and awareness". In this place it is necessary to congratulate and say thank you very much to all those enthusiasts who have been struggling with this great trouble for years. Indeed, since school, non - smoking, as a colleague at the National Health School has said, there are many instructors, and they need to be congratulated on it and supported further. But of course, there are further activists, and here we see these days in various places of "Goodbye, Cinderella" similar to other moments. But of course you need to say in this place that we're also all invited here for awareness, all of us. Maybe there are those who are addicted to this kind of trouble, but like that, you can't be credible if you don't stick to something on your own. So let one be a message to start with, just like my colleague Grubisic said here that we here in the Assembly are awareness-raising and that we should start saying, "No smoking!". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3839	"Don't smoke!". Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3840	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We listened to Dr Milinkovic at the HDZ Representatives' Club. We said, "Don't smoke!", club rooms have been a clean smoke zone for two months now. And I hope that the HDZ will live longer, and that's what I want for the rest of them. When we talk about tobacco, then we should say that the tobacco problem isn't since yesterday, it's 3,000 years old. Namely, the first use of tobacco is a thousand years before the new era, and only after two and a half thousand years of tobacco consumption begins to think first about its harmfulness. So the tobacco problem is much more complex than we think. The first thought that tobacco could be harmful occurred only after a study of epidemiologically in 1952, Hole and associates in America in a group of doctors, doctors are always the best for experiments, has proved that these doctors have a much more frequent lung cancer, heart attack, stroke, etc. Twenty years should have taken place in America after that knowledge of public health services banning smoking in public places. Europe is unfortunately a helmet and as you know only in recent years is copying this good American experience. World Health has contributed to this because it has defined, it has been mentioned, it has defined smoking as a disease and from that moment on we all have a duty against this disease to fight all forces. So ignorance has been a problem for many years to prevent the effects of smoking. The other problem is drugs. Of course it's a tobacco drug and, of course, it's a smoking disease of addiction. We all know that between four thousand ingredients, one called nicotine binds to brain receptors, releases neurotransmitters. One of them called dopamine causes a feeling of comfort and a smoker to have a sense of comfort must boost his cigarette, otherwise there is no feeling of comfort or discomfort. And this is the mechanism which unfortunately prevents public health services and society as a whole from achieving greater and better results, so it must reach out to legal measures. What does that nicotine do? Nicotine in a cigarette as we know it has an average of about 2, 2, 2, 3 mg. Two cigarettes are enough to cause acute poisoning in non-smokers, so 5 mg of nicotine, and one pack of cigarettes contains a lethal dose of nicotine. So if someone suddenly took the whole nicotine out of one box he'd die. So knowingly taking poison, tobacco, or nicotine is a unique example of conscious self - poisoning. Unfortunately, though, it is the only poison for one who enjoys it not only to poison himself but to poison his surroundings. And that is the purpose of all these laws that we bring, because the smoke that they exhale, which goes out of his cigarette, poisons the one that is with him in the room. And there's where the law needs to be and it has to work. Which means that poison means that one cigarette reduces life for an average of 8 to 15 minutes, according to which research or translation into a simple language. While I'm giving this 10-minute speech, 78 people will die in the world from smoking, 78 tragedies, personal, family and social. What is quite clear in Croatia is that it dies annually between 10 and 13 thousand people, so while we are conducting this debate, two or three people in Croatia will die from the consequences of smoking and we are partly responsible for it. Although Croatia is among the first in Europe to join... And if first, among the first, we passed laws that I spoke of earlier, marking the amount of nicotine, the danger of smoking cigarettes, the ban on selling to minors, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We didn't do everything we could, and we're about to do it with a law that's just being prepared at the Department of Law. But yet, everything we've done has reduced the level of smoking in Croatia by 3 to 4%. And we're just so much better than other transition countries that didn't do it in time, 3 to 4%, that means we saved a few dozen to a few hundred lives a year. Which is a huge thing, not just for a doctor, but for every politician who decides about it. What health consequences should be said is not just bronch cancers, so lungs, bladders, and others, that's a lot of talk. The worst death in smokers is death because of blood vessels. Namely, nicotine leads to thickening the rock,... the inner layer of the rock, thereby narrowing the lumen, thereby reducing the supply of blood, heart, brain, legs, kidneys, etc., and that is why the smoker lives for several years, on average 10 to 12 years shorter than non-smoking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For he who dwells with him lives six to eight years shorter than he who does not breathe the smoke of another smoker. But it's more or less clear to everyone, I would look more at the economic side of the smoking ban. There are some calls to doubts about it, I don't think they exist. When considering the benefits of tobacco, I speak financial benefits from growers, processing to sales and when taking into account the cost of treatment caused by smoking, according to the World Health Organization and the World Bank, the globe, our country annually, therefore, is globally down to $200 billion, so much more per year than all the nicotine industry, processing and processing gets. As for Croatia, we from excise duties, you have seen now and in this budget, from excise duties to cigarettes, to tobacco, we get 3 billion and 200 million kuna a year. And now some who are worried about those 3 billion and 200 million say what we're going to do without it. Without that, we'll have a lot more, because we won't spend two billion kunas a year on treatment, so we're here, but we've spent almost all of our excise duty, because we won't have what we have right now, smokers who have 11 days more than non-smokers, those 11 days multiplied by the number of smokers is a much greater minus financial, health care has no doubt, but it's plus 3 billion and 200 million excise duties that we get from nicotines. And unfortunately another sad piece of information to those who care. Unfortunately, these excise duties will not be significantly reduced, I say unfortunately because even after the adoption of the Law on smoking in public places, the number of smokers will fall by a negligible percentage of 2, 3, 4%. Which means that by law alone, we can't act on the habit of smoking. We can protect non-smokings from smoking in a public place, but we cannot protect a smoker who will continue to smoke because of that law but in a closed place or somewhere outside the room. At European level, the financial impact of smoking is also the topic of the talks. Today, we have another sad piece of information, which is that European Union countries provide incentives for tobacco farming and Croatia is giving it. At the level of the European Union country, they give almost a billion euros in incentives to tobacco growers, namely 970m euros. So with 970 million euros, we stimulate the poisoning of smokers and non-smokers. But that is why the European Commission has made one wise decision to gradually reduce tobacco incentives, gradually not to cause social negative consequences in producers' growers and they have halved that amount in half over the past three years and reduce it by 10, 15% each year, the aim by 2012 is to bring tobacco incentives down to zero. And I believe that Croatia will follow such guidelines. And perhaps in the end, just one problem, bringing non-smoking into public rooms and indoors. There is also political resistance to this, except for the financial, except for the manufacturer's lobby, political resistance to those I call pseudo-democratics. In fact, whenever I proposed to the government and the government to this House to limit the use of tobacco we have brought so far. They always attacked me, of course, and all those who were supporters of it and said that we were limiting the right of a man to free conduct, to the enjoyment of nicotine. So, in other words, we're not Democrats. Such an attitude shows that they are pseudocrats, they respect man’s right to enjoy tobacco rather than respect man’s right to life. In Croatia, there are 26.27% of smokers and 70% of those who breathe their smoke either guilty or debtors, these are passive smokers. These passive smokers in Croatia unfortunately have lung cancer 35% more frequently and heart attack more often not because of themselves and their habits but because of neighbors who smoke. I therefore welcome this Framework Convention in which we have participated as a State. And I believe in the future we'll protect them if they don't smoke, at least non-smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3841	Thank you. Replica, respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3842	I thank Mr. Vice President, so I really sign every word that Mr. Hebrang said and I thank you for showing this Parliament all the problems of smoking, especially when it comes to heart disease, but I am expressing my disappointment once again because yesterday in the budget we reduced the amount of intervention cardiology from 12 million to 9 million kuna and thus reduced the chances of these 53 who suffer from 100 cardiovascular heart disease and get a heart attack, so that the heart attack doesn't end for them mortally.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3843	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3844	Thank you very much. It is certain that the disease, heart attack, is the most fearsome and common side effect of the heart. Coronary artery narrow and only a little thickening can lead to a heart attack. And that's why this cut in financial terms you're talking about isn't negative, it's the other way around. I think it's positive. In fact, over the past years, we've been introducing something called intervention cardiology, that at the moment of an acute heart attack we have a network of institutions that can intervene and save lives and we've given big money to introduce them. Now they are introduced and these large investment money is no longer needed, but it is necessary to maintain this and that is the reason for the reduction in the item. So it's not a reduction in concern, it's because there's a change in dynamics in investment. We have today introduced in most of our major hospitals such intervention methods and great expenditure on equipment, apparatus, education are no longer as great as it will be in the future. That's the reason for the reduction, not the minor concern for health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3845	Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3846	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. Well, it is obvious from the debate so far that there is no one who will not support the World Health Organization Convention on Tobacco Control. But I think we have a big job ahead of us and how to adopt those regulations, restrictive regulations that would restrict smoking, or ban smoking. Surely here, more or less all speakers have pointed out that smoking is harmful to health and that what is fatal is actually for what is most valuable to the human race. I've got to do the same thing in that hoarding so far because of the smoking we've heard about the damage to the lungs. Perhaps it's an interesting fact that it also harms the hearing, that this blood flow in the snail is proven to be a great danger to those who smoke more than one pack a day. We also know that damage to the skin, we've heard that before. It also damages the nervous system, especially the devastating consequences for pregnant women and newborns. I believe you know that according to the international classification of smoking disease, smoking is classified into a mental disorder. For the worldly proportions of small Croatia defeating it. I think we've already heard him say we have a million and six thousand smokers in Croatia somewhere, that somewhere only in Zagreb is one quarter of that million and the sixth which makes up 400,000 means those who live, they live in this city. It is an even bigger disaster that the consequences of smoking die annually on average up to 11,000 people, and that one third of these smokers die in the city of Zagreb, which is about 3600 people. Smoking has certainly been touched here by considerable damage to Croatia's economy. Namely, each smoker spends about 34 days a year on average for health disorders caused by smoking on sick leave. Well, according to estimates, somewhere in Croatia the total number of employees is 37% of smokers. If we play with those numbers now, it's somewhere around 550,000 smokers from the total number of employees. If these figures were played, Croatia lost 19.2 million working days a year and 154 million working hours respectively. And now that all these figures have been converted into some kind of value, let's say we multiplied it by the average price of the clock that is in Croatia today, and that is 42 kunas, then we would get from Croatia 6 and a half billion kuna a year to smoke. I think it's a terriblely devastating piece of information. Normally, I can't afford it much richer countries than I said in Croatia, so if we add those funds that are spent through healthcare for the treatment of all those who are suffering from various diseases resulting from smoking, it's a terrible data. However, if the arguments of the smokers were respected, which were also the same here for their arbitrary consent to be poisoned, the fact is their drastic fact that this irresponsibility to the environment, and that is what he was just saying to his colleague Hebrang that he was terrible. It is certainly not negligible these enormous costs normally incurred by the treatment of smoking disease. But I have one more thing to say that I would never agree to an inhumane relationship that I read today or these days in the newspaper that the Netherlands has introduced 16 and a half percent more retirement for smokers because they have estimated that normally retired smokers live shorter and then that they can get back 16 and a half percent more pension through it. Or the Poles are investigating to say they could raise a 10% pension for their retired smokers, and the condition is that they have to smoke at least 10 cigarettes a day or 6 pipes a day. It's like proof, etc. I think they're inhumane relationships, but here's the thing, I'm just mentioning them because they're also publicly published. But when I talk about what I should do, I think we should see and follow the example of what America has done. Over 20 years, through various legal measures, various regulations have managed to reduce the number of smokers by 40%. But our goal certainly should be much more dynamic than the American, and that we should try to reduce the number of smokers in Croatia by at least 10 years of talking about this huge damage by 30%. But in order to get rid of smoking as soon as possible, and also to get rid of the consequences, I think we need to bring a whole series of measures as soon as possible, and I especially need to stress there to protect women's populations, because I think it's a known fact that women are much harder to leave smoking than men because they are more sensitive to smoking incentives. That's not what I said. That's what Dr. Kenneth from the University of Pittsburgh said. And women's health, especially pregnant women, is more fragile than men. I therefore believe that it is urgent that not only because of this harmonisation of legislation with European Union legislation, but because of us, we are urgently going to adopt a whole series of measures and regulations. At first, I think that the state should also have an interest, to increase the prices of tobacco and tobacco products. The media campaign on harmfulness and the consequences of smoking should then be stepped up. We can see in the media everything, but at least to run that campaign to warn about the harmfulness of smoking. Then education programs educate children and I think that since the first grade of primary school, these children should be educated in smoking harmfulness. Ban smoking in all rooms, especially publicly clear. Reduce places where tobacco products can also be bought with positive measures and actions to help quitters and protect non-smokers, why we should not introduce days of healthy lungs in Croatia. Well, I think it would be an initiative of praise worth trying to reduce smoking. However, when my colleague Hebrang mentioned three billion that Croatia is losing from excise duty, here I mentioned these 6.5 billion which is a shame of smoking in Croatia, it means twice as much and even I would say more than double the damage to the Croatian economy than to prevent and ban in some way or reduce the number of smokers who suffer from these diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3847	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3848	Well, I would totally accept the presentation of my colleague Kunst as opposed to the presentation of fellow Hebrang, because my colleague Kunst actually touched the right subject, which is that things should be dealt with in the root. So you should try to reduce the number of smokers and actually hit where the problem starts. So I can accept that, but I can't accept the position of a fellow Hebrang who says we can save at least non-smoking people. I know they're collateral sacrifice, but I think things should be solved in the root. But what I've come up for is the following, which is that we still have a number of laws that regulate this issue and at least to some extent protect non-smokers. Unfortunately, what are we meeting with? We meet with the fact that these laws don't apply. Go to any restaurant, any bar. You have a place for smokers and non-smokers everywhere, unfortunately few owners and those who visit these restaurants and cafes are sticking to it. So my appeal would be, no matter how high-quality legislation and laws we would have to pass quality implementing regulations, or ensure that services whose job description it is in fact have to implement those laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3849	Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3850	Anyway, I agree with everything that my colleague Lucin said, but I think we have to say what you said at every restaurant, coffee shop, so it's exactly a designated non-smoking place, which is basically bordered by smokers or vice versa. I think it's a lot of nonsense and it's fooling us because smoke normally doesn't have a fence and can't stop it from going from smokers to non-smokers. I think we can only ban smoking in public space, it's the only real cure. This is all bullshit, these two tables smoke freely, those two tables shouldn't smoke, and in principle, one and the other effects of the smoke are enjoying themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3851	Dear Representative Nedjeljko Strikic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Here at the beginning of this debate on the adoption of the convention when Mr Droic took place, I thought today's debate would turn into controversy, politicizing, his speech was like that. But later on, all speakers realized the seriousness of the problem we have in the Republic of Croatia, the problem I would rather say the consequences of smoking, which means smoking, enjoying tobacco smoke. So when 27% of the population gets sick, and we hear that smoking is a disease, we're talking about a major epidemic. So we have 27% of the population who is either an addict or sick, and the consequences of tobacco come to collect what Mr. Hebrang said, much later. Because we need to know that the consumption of tobacco and tobacco products is a cumulative process in the body and the consequences after the use of tobacco smoke do not arise immediately but after ten years. And I'm here from a few aspects trying to say, first and foremost as a representative of this High House, as a doctor surgeon, and as president of the cancer and non-smoking league, it's easier for me to speak in that capacity. And in this convention, who has really read, sees that the entire area of control over tobacco products is covered, but in most places or in most articles two things are always repeated, it is a risk, the consequences of smoking and awareness or the sensitivity of the public. Today, too, in today’s debate, some speakers said that they should work in smoking at prevention, and smoking prevention means getting to know the public about the risks and consequences of tobacco smoke. I'll say just one piece of information for the illustration, sometimes come back well in history, so I'll say that an American expert in 1912 wrote a monograph of health and about lung cancer and bronch and eventually wrote that he apologized to all of them for little data because he didn't find much of the disease. And where are we in the Republic of Croatia today not even a hundred years after that? That's what the consequences of enjoying tobacco come at a charge far away later. It is known that smokers per smoking index mean an adult male who consumes more than 25 cigarettes a day, has a risk of bronch and lung cancer 25 times. His risk or the possibility of a malignancy is 25 times greater than the one that isn't. At the same time, the suspension of smoking and smoking does not automatically mean a lack of risk and is considered to be relevant data and world literature, that by stopping smoking we will never erase the risk of becoming harmful and causing cancer. It is also known that many here who used to say, said passive smoking or inhaling tobacco without being smokers, scientifically proven to have carcinogenic effects. And for this reason, I will say really exact data about some diseases, and it is known that in the first place the cause of mortality in the Republic of Croatia are cerebrovascular diseases, a disease also associated with smoking. And so 19.5 of all deaths in the Republic of Croatia were caused by cerebrovascular diseases, and a large proportion of the disease has been smoked. There's cardiovascular disease elsewhere. This is well explained by Professor Hebrang, who causes 16.3 deaths in the Republic of Croatia. And ladies and gentlemen, here is Croatia, we have an epidemic of malignant, malignant bronch and lung diseases, which with 8.39 participates in the mortality of the population in the Republic of Croatia. Let's just remind ourselves that this House of the High in the last session has also brought in the National Programme for the Prevention of Fat Inflammation Cancer. For comparison of colon cancer, it participates in mortality with 2.48%. So you see the relationship and the severity of the effects of smoking and malignant bronch and lung diseases. And many here have said, that is scientifically confirmed, 95% of those who are suffering from malignant bronch and lung disease were smokers or were smokers. What would that mean by the age group of the population? Men are exposed far, far more than women, although the latest data from the world literature, and with us for 2006 means the freshest that is possible, they say... or increase in women in the last ten years 45% and in men 35%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have another problem that also a population that is reproductive, women in pregnancy and a scientifically proven impact, the harmful impact of tobacco smoke on the foetus and later development of the child. In age groups, we see a common malignant disease occurring in humans after 45 years of life. Why? Well, they are not a special group that would be very exposed, but it is precisely the cumulative effect of tobacco, because usually according to the latest data that is three years ago, the start of smoking in the Republic of Croatia in young people from year to year decreases the age limit and so we have the information that at this time and last year, as many as 75% of 15-year-olds and 15-year-olds in the Republic of Croatia already consume cigarettes, which is absolutely and according to the relevant figures of the world literature will have an effect in 10 or 20 years if we do nothing on prevention. And now I'm going to go back to what I said before, that in this convention which is really great, which is part of the World Health Organization that we're going to accept and which wasn't too late because we weren't in the air space, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and any of the previous laws on smoking bans. But what we must also do to the Ministry of Health, and I welcome the Minister's proposal and announcement that he will pass a law and regulation on places where smoking will be allowed or on non-smoking protection. But it is ours that through legal frameworks and not just through legal frameworks, because we know that laws are passed and their implementation in reality is absolutely not working. So is the law we've heard before since '94. years of smoking bans, and even in hospital departments and spaces, obviously we're all witnessing non-respect. So it's very important that when we pass laws that they have their own application in reality, and that would mean that inspection services get absolute support from all of us, that they get political support and that these people who exercise surveillance are protected. Here, I put out a piece of the data agreeing with everything the previous speakers have said. And I hope that this convention will be unanimously adopted and that it will not only be a convention that will be adopted but that its implementation will be possible in reality, because indeed, indeed, in the Republic of Croatia, we have an epidemic of the consequences of smoking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3853	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3854	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, I agree with most of what you said. In my presentation, I did not want to enter the scientific and professional details related to the effects of smoking. I tried to keep the Republic of Croatia's commitment to smoking policy and how to prevent or reduce smoking. That was my goal. But here you are trying to present various professional and scientific data made one mistake. You said the consequences of smoking don't come right away. That's completely incorrect. My friend, you know that the protective mechanism when it comes to the respiratory system is that the mucus is constantly and permanently hatched and that the eyelash cells force that mucus to the throat by cleaning the lungs. In a very short time, Nicotine will completely paralyze these cells, prevent mucous membranes from being washed and prevent the defense of the respiratory system. We have to be very specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3855	Thank you. Answer Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3856	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course Mr. Doric is right. But he obviously didn't listen very carefully to my exposure. My exposure when I started talking about cumulative effect, I was talking about malignancy where it was absolutely cumulative effect, not current effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3857	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3858	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Three facts that every eight seconds one person dies around the world, that every smoked cigarette reduces life for ten minutes and that 10,000 citizens of Croatia die annually from tobacco disease is enough for us all to support this convention. But to give something on the trail of a previous debate, to give something to those people who stopped smoking two, five years ago. So, a nicotine like counterpart Doric says has, quit smoking has an acute effect, so it can immediately manifest itself in reducing blood vessels, but fortunately for those who have stopped smoking before, and someone asked me earlier, three to four years ago they have to endure three to four more years to fully recover the epitel broncha, and then the risk, for example, is the same as with me who thank God I never smoked. So that's good news for those who stopped smoking. So continue on this trail, continue on the path of a healthy life, a healthy lifestyle and endure another five, six years and then these harmful effects will disappear except for some, as counterpart Strickic said, who are unfortunately cumulative. What am I worried about? I'm worried about the information about our children. Our children. We were all talking about adults, but someone said every third kid in high school smokes. Harmful habits are that children, unfortunately at that age, start experimenting with drinking alcohol, some, unfortunately, with consumption, with drug experiments. So these are harmful habits. How do you fight it? We can only fight it by education, by teaching our children. Kolega Bagarić is partly right, smoking was once socially acceptable behavior but is also right that the international classification of disease, so today in the international classification of diseases where you have all diseases there is a dependence on nicotine. It's a disease, it's true. It's an addiction which is a disease like my colleague Lucin said on a series of occasions. So that's the fact the international classification said. How do you fight it? Learning, education and education. So you have a ban, repression on the one hand and education on the other. The ban is, of course, an easier way but significantly more ineffective. Prohibit smoking, the law is not implemented, continue to smoke, ban the law of 0.0 promilas or put the law of 0.0 promilas. Nothing. Education, learning, that's what our Andrija Printer said. Andrija Printar founded the World Health Organization and in 1924 he said something that is still valid today. I quote, "Ignorance is the greatest enemy of health." And that's what Professor Hebrang said earlier. Ignorance. So we give them, get to know both smokers and those who have stopped smoking with this, endure for a few more years, and passive smokers our children with the harmfulness of smoking because education is harder but ultimately significantly more effective. That's why it's good, I'm a gastroenterologist, that I hope to return, that we'll put off the law of 0.0 of the past for a number of reasons. Hippocrates lived 500 years before Christ and then he said, quote: "One glass of black wine is good for health, two for joy and three for disease.". At the time, the glass was a small pile. The glass was a small cup, and no deciliter like Professor Hebrang says, there were no beer glasses at the time. So, a small glass or a decilitre of black wine. My colleague Strikic said that sometimes we get back in the past, but we can't change the past. But in the past, there were great things, obviously in 73, and I was 11 years old, and I had a great health minister who said "We watch out for smoking." In 94 hours of burdensome time, Professor Hebrang was a health minister, began a ban on smoking in public, so there was definitely good moves. Unfortunately, for the past four years, there has been a state secretary who is the continuity of the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, the last four years have not been a single public health action on smoking, and we have to say that. That's what we have to say, not one. My colleague Milinkovic said it started seven days ago, you're right, "Goodbye, Cinderella!". But that's what pharmaceutical companies do, not us, not the state. Public health action is something that we must definitely support especially on the trail of the next point, on the trail of the Croatian Red Cross, which 130 years works humanly, altruistically in our country and should definitely return to the education program. Here, I recommend something you have in our health program. It's called security, security is a nine-letter word, nine-bit word. First "s" is traffic safety, second is "u" learning, "n" is habits, we point to harmful habits, alcohol, drugs etc. The last "s" is, say, sexual education. Let's get back to what we need to get back to. Let's go back to educating our children by all harmful habits, health education based on scientific knowledge, health education based on first-class experience, so I started with the Hippocrates through Andrija Printar until the 21st century, up to the 3rd millenniums and based on expertise and science. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3859	Thank you. There's a replica, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3860	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, my colleague Ostojić said a few extraordinary things that should be highlighted because he may not even know that our dear young friends are listening to him here at the gallery, and he said one big sentence. "Fighting death from smoking is a struggle of education at a young age." So, just education at this age is what our responsibility is and if we were to conduct a survey among these dear young friends of ours, 90% of them don't know that ten years earlier, because they smoke, 90 percent doesn't know that while we're talking here, 70 people die in the world from smoking. But it's not their fault, it's us, because we didn't use all the educational mechanisms that my colleague Ostojic warned about. And there's one sad fact that we won't significantly reduce the number of smokers by all regulations and bans. And that's what my colleague Lucin said we'd better save the non-smokers. After the adoption of the smoking ban law in public places, the number of smokers will fall by 2 to 3%. That's why what my colleague Ostojić said in education, education, education. There's our responsibility for every death that these young people will perform too soon if we haven't taught them what a cigarette is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3861	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3862	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't want to replicate and put the wrong allegations, I think it's completely unnecessary. My intervention in front of the club was tasked with merely trying to provoke a more lively debate, and if that's what I did, I thank you too. In fact, matter is such that it really needs a lot of attention and we need to do it quality and speedily. I'm not going back 3,000 years in history because all the data we've heard here today and brought out on the Internet can be pulled out in a few seconds, so that's the easiest part of the story. However, colleagues and colleagues are not important to my position, not the attitude of Mr. Lucin or anyone else. The government's position here is to see what and how this government plans to move on. My colleagues and colleagues, this law is in the process of an emergency procedure. Therefore, we will not have the opportunity to discuss it again. I want to hear some things here that I know what I can promise the citizens, in which direction we will act. So I would like to repeat some of the questions to the secretary of state once again, and I would be very happy if he would answer those questions to us in his final address. The first question is, Mr. Secretary of State, are you and the members of the Croatian government satisfied with the results achieved after smoking in the workplace was banned 14, 15 years ago? If you didn't, why didn't you do anything earlier? I'm curious, in accordance with this Law, how many fines have been charged in Croatia during that period of 14, 15 years? Individuals and companies where this Law was violated? Are you satisfied with the results of the campaign, i.e. education as fellow Hebrang has now said in primary and secondary schools, how much did we manage to reduce smoking to the student population? Are you satisfied with those results? Do you agree with the number presented by fellow Hebrang regarding the means spent on the treatment of smoking diseases? Is that 2 billion, 3 billion, 7 billion? I'm curious further, in the Croatian cigarette market, what is the percentage, the share of the black market? Do you, Mr. Secretary of State, believe that a ban on smoking in a public place will in itself reduce the number of smokers? Is it about banning smoking or drastically reducing the number of smokers? Here are the key questions I would like to ask you to give us an answer, and with this we would all be pleased to see a clear line on which the Croatian Government will act quickly and effectively to reduce the number of smokers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3863	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr. Shime Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3864	Well, I actually think that even now my colleague Doric has opened up a real level of trouble. I've analyzed it a little bit now. Of the 10, 11 speakers, they're all really except one person, and if I'm taken into account by the medics, that's good. However, apart from the consequences of this story, we must discuss the causes. There's no good prevention if we don't locate the causes and if we don't actually see some, some deeper social dimensions. I don't mind the doctors talking about this, however, they are invited and must warn about the level of problems. Therefore, I would like to join my colleague Doric, that if we are to discuss this problem in the right way, we must also take this dimension of the problem. And again, I must say again. I think the action should be focused on smokers. They're the source of the problem. The problem of non-smokings and their exposure to tobacco smoke will be solved in a way that solves smokers. Let's talk a little bit about the causes and the mode of prevention and possible prevention, and how much do we, as a state, spend money on prevention? And how young they get to know each other in schools, in elementary schools, because today young people start smoking at 10, 11, why they do it and how we can prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3865	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3866	I thank Mr. President, so I think it's almost all said or maybe it's all said. So I wouldn't talk at all about these elements that we've talked about so far, and I'd be attached to a sentence here that's been spoken of, it's said, we used to not know about harmfulness. And then today, we've convinced ourselves here all of us now that we know about harmfulness. So now we say we know. We simply need to be aware that it is our responsibility and greater. So sometimes we didn't know, and now we think we know. So if we know, then we really do something. That's why this bill here is really in that sense. And Professor Doric's very important to me is your attitude, what do you say, do you understand? So you're both a representative and a professor, which is why your position here is very important, and your speech is very important. Therefore, as well as your speech and speech by colleagues Ostojić and all those who have spoken here, and colleagues Bonačić who spoke on behalf of the SDP, the SDP Club, which I sign up to one word, I absolutely support and support. However, I would refer to a thesis that I hold to be very, very reckless, and it can be dangerous, when said, nothing can be achieved by bans. Comrade Lucin, and the World Health Organization says that, among other things, only a ban can be achieved by achieving that when someone smokes as much as they smokes and when we can no longer raise it or can't rear it, then at least we can reduce the harmfulness it causes for others, for the environment and for everyone else. Thus, the World Health Organization says ban, ban and ban. Therefore, raising yes, prevention yes, knowledge yes. However, there is no ban on all this, for there is no other time, unfortunately. Finally. A few more sentences, but as an easy look at the exposé of some colleagues so far. One of them was fellow Caine when he talked about the damage suffered by catering facilities, related to smoking bans and so on. So, on the pages of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which I normally recommend that people visit occasionally, especially when it comes to health, some myths so called. the myths of the tobacco industry and I think they are very important, significant and related to this matter. So it's said that one of them is, therefore, one of these myths, supported by ignorance, so individuals who simply say something, and they're not aware of it at all, speaks of how actually exposure to tobacco smoke is just an inconvenience. So it's just one myth and an incorrect claim, so it's not an inconvenience, it's a disease and a shame. Then, bribe so-called. Free choice, so-called. The symbiosis of the life of smokers and non-smokers and the dodging of the right of smokers to choose. So there is no one's right that is greater than human rights to health, to life and to protection. Then, myth, I don't even know the winding, open the door so that air will be clean. The myth of how we will never achieve a completely clean, therefore, completely clean space from tobacco smoke, therefore, and it is a myth, not true, here we have achieved it, here we are absolutely protected here in this room, simply because no one here smokes. Then, it's also about bribery, the cost of catering facilities as a consequence of the smoking ban. It's just a myth. Because research has been carried out both in Ireland and in America and in many other countries that actually confirm that not even these objects are lost by the ban on smoking. However, it is simply a myth with which it is definitely as with all these others and we here and all the others need to be reckoned. I repeat, there is no Light, there is no Light. So, when it comes to smoking. On the other hand, how do you even solve the problem of smoking? Of course, education, education and education. However, this education should begin first and foremost. Those who have never smoked or tried to smoke have never had a problem with quitting simply because they have not even come to this attack. Therefore, do not light the first cigarette ever. It may be the best contribution and actually something that we all need to address... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3867	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3868	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with everything more or less what Mr. Bagarić said and if anyone is against smoking, it's me that I'm having trouble breathing because of my basic diagnosis. Then I'm really avoiding smoky spaces and everything. However, what you have referred to as bans and should be forbidden, forbidden, forbidden. However, I was in some other countries where it was really regulated legally and where there were really and harsh penalties and bans, and what happened. They put cigarette machines on the street so that every child who is forbidden to sell tobacco products in stores simply inserts several euros and also gets tobacco, or cigarettes on their hands. So, I think more education, education, education, and prevention, prevention, prevention, starting with parents, that is, parents are a role model for their children not to smoke. I've never been forbidden by anyone in my life. My dad's a smoker, and I'm not. However, I simply think that everything comes from the family, and then from education through the education system and of course through programmes that the government will have to implement through education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3869	Thank you. Answer Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3870	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, we understand and agree. However, perhaps only that element can be broken down by bans. So when we talk about bans and when the World Health Organization is talking about bans, it doesn't talk about bans on children to start smoking. So you can't really ban them from smoking. However, the ban applies exclusively to people who already smoke to protect other non-smokings. And this second part of the one that you said very nicely about education, of course, is primarily directed towards young people and children.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3871	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3872	Maybe I wouldn't have called if my colleague Bagaric hadn't called me. You know what, I'm afraid of enthusiasm and enthusiasm in this kind of debate, so I say we open the windows next and we air the room. Where? In the center of Zagreb? So let's be aware? Let's talk about social security, so again, only doctors will talk. Let's talk about the social dimension of this problem. There is something in Zagreb other than tobacco smoke! Let's be serious! Don't let us deepen the problem now and that's what we have to do to dimension things in the right way, put them in the context of saying that smoking is harmful and it's not controversial. Now about the ban, that's why I called. Look, I'm not against bans. But I assure you that only with a ban will you achieve nothing or very little. What percentage is that going to reduce? Listen, I was a high school kid when I was banned from smoking at home and school. I was hiding. Well, that's what kids do to you today. You know, you have a problem, pull the drug parallel. Drugs are forbidden. But you have this trend of drug use in young people. So this was about education, prevention. That's what it's supposed to be, but on the right side, I don't think it's the right thing to do, is let's ban it all now. No, let's explain to the kids what it is, where it's a smoking problem, what it's all about implications and health, social and all that stuff it carries, what it carries with it. So let's set things right. If we don't just say I don't know from the lungs or I don't know what cancers die from tobacco. Yeah, that's just the data. But there are other problems that actually cause these diseases. It's the only way. So, by dimensionalizing the problem, I believe we'll get results.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3873	Answer Mr. Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3874	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, yes, my colleague Lucin. I agree, but today we're talking about smoking. So today we're not talking about pests I don't know from the air from the ground, from the pollutants of other species. Today we're only talking about smoking. So we're ready for that, and that's what we're talking about. Therefore, when we talk about prohibitions and when it comes to the World Health Organization, and when the prohibitions are mentioned in this Convention, they are therefore referred to in a way that this harmfulness that has become global and, on that side, leads to some reasonable, or as much as possible, an acceptable measure. So much for the ban. And on the other hand, what you say is education, education, education. So Croatia can already say with full conviction it has a very strong network and educational activities in general when it comes to public health and also when it comes to smoking. Because if we look at the statistics, we'll see. We can't be satisfied with 27% of Croats smoking. But when we compare that figure to others, so to others who are just as well as developed here. For example, one Ireland has 23%, one Austria has 29%, I don't know. Let's say Finland, which I don't know, we dream of reaching 23%. Hence, they too have these great problems. So, both. And bans when needed, but certainly permanent and permanent, continuous education as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3875	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3876	Thank you. I think it's important that what happened here is, in fact, what's the fact, that we're reminded of that by people who think it's a disease. So that means that even when we talk about the problem of smoking that we need to talk about two groups of people and two different approaches. One is the one who is sick if it is a disease, and the other are the ones who are not sick, but can potentially become sick. That methodologically raises us to question two principles. The principle that I don't, as a matter of principle. Those who smoke already say no to them. That's not good. To those who don't smoke, you tell the principle of living, because sucking is inlife. Logically looking at a larger group is the group and the group that you can influence more is the one that hasn't started smoking yet. So it's the ones that are coming. So we have two groups, and that's why the principle of education is combined with this principle that we called a ban, the only solution. That's why I don't think that should be defined for one principle or another. Legal provisions may in some way be restrictive to those who smoke, but I really think that what counterpart Bagarić said in the end, not to light the first cigarette is never the best way to say medicine because it does not apply to people who are already sick but to the best prevention of not getting into the area of the disease. I'd just like to mention one more thing. It used to be about smoking like an adult junkie. Smoking is something today, so adult addictions and lower age groups combined with alcohol are more widespread than drug addictions that we normally like to talk about so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3877	Thank you. And another replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3878	I fully agree with your presentation, but when I said it was not important to my position, I did not run away from my part of responsibility. In fact, 10,000 souls are extinguished each year as a result of the diseases resulting from smoking. It's a fundamental question for a colleague and a colleague, if we are completely innocent in that story. That's a fundamental question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3879	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Zdenko Franic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3880	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a lot of talk about smoking and tobacco, but I'm going to say another fact that in the general public might be a little less familiar. In fact, tobacco is an amazing plant that selectively absorbs, accumulates, and radioactive elements that are present in the earth’s crust from the very creation of the solar system and planet earth. So the tobacco in itself accumulates 226 from the uranium radioactive sequence, polonium 210 also from the uranium radioactive sequence and works 228 from the thorium sequence. And the results of the radiation study that smokers receive from smoking cigarettes are really quite interesting not to say astounding. Thus, a study was published in an article published in the Iradiation Protext Dosimeter last year according to which a smoker who smokes 30 cigarettes a day, so a box and a half receive a dose of radiation between 150 and 400 microsavers a year, which is a few dozen percent of the total dose of radiation that we receive because we live in the environment or drive in airplanes or deal with some other activities related to daily life. Or translated this is more dangerous than florography of the lungs or such medically justified activities. So this tendency to smoke that, at the risk of nicotine and tar, here contributes to the radioactive radiation of the lungs is something that is actually unknown to the general public. It may be known only to a narrow circle of experts, and the Republic of Croatia has just such experts. In the assessment of the situation of this Proposal for a Law confirming the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, it was said that the Republic of Croatia became a member of the World Health Organization on 11 June 1992 and agreed to promote its objectives, which include international cooperation in the field of health promotion. However, the fact is that he also mentioned by his colleague Ostojić, that the Constitution of the World Health Organization was written by Professor A. Printar, the Rector of the Zagreb University and the long-standing Dean of the Medical Faculty and, in fact, the author and promoter of the public health doctrine in the Republic of Croatia, and through the work of the World Health Organization promoter and doctrine and at the world level. Simplifiedly speaking, it can be reduced to the people's proverb "better prevented than treated". However, Professor Stampar laid the foundations of public health in the Republic of Croatia with a whole network of educational and scientific institutions so that he would dare to say that the doctrine of health, public health has become probably the most spectacular export product of the Republic of Croatia of all time. Because, according to Andrija Printar’s public health doctrine, today, many countries are still being treated. Let's mention both China and Malaysia, etc. the most human countries that have just taken over the experience of the Republic of Croatia that has preceded it in the former state. It is a pity that, unfortunately, in our transition, we have slightly neglected this extremely important segment, and we have slightly reversed the system in relation to what it could have been. So Professor Stampar laid the foundations of the public health service in pre-war Yugoslavia and built advanced medicine and thus came into conflict with commercialized medicine as if we were reading the current situations that are present in the modern world. However, thanks to his visionaryism, he realized that not only education but also studying our everyday reality is extremely important for the creation of prevention and prevention actions. In other words, he supported scientific research and thanks to it was established the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine of Work as the second largest institute in the Republic of Croatia. So, the first is of course "Ruđer Bošković", and the second is us, the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine, according to its performances and according to its publicist, also participating in educational activities in accordance with the Zagreb University and other universities. And precisely the knowledge collected in this institute by long-term work supports the old fact that we have social stratification in our societies and so in Croatia, we have a social gradient, so it is known and proven that the weaker property situation is therefore generally poorer, both in terms of poorer health and poorer health. And the healthiest are the better assets. And just public health or a new doctrine of public health or a new old doctrine of public health because Professor Stampar was already aware of these phenomena, decades ago, is that these health inequalities can be removed by improving the well-being of the entire population in a satisfactory way. And it is precisely the task of this House to pass such laws and such legislation that will improve the well-being of the entire people with course education and a constant warning about the harm of smoking and other worse habits such as alcoholism, etc. However, repressive measures are also extremely important because it is not possible for traffickers to offer in the markets to sell cigarettes without stamps damageing the state budget, but also allowing minors to buy these cigarettes lightly. And I would also mention the problem of the tobacco production subsidy which, if we want to be truly consistent, we must also touch as the European Commission requires. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3881	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Mrs Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3882	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This last element was the thought of mine, why I answered the line. This is where the medics and the people of education spoke. We're very successful at enlightening something in education. We educate people to come up with certain knowledge in any case. Maybe it's not if we teach them German to read Schiller and the aesthetics of Schiller. But to some extent, we teach them something. Obviously, we don't teach them or teach them in this class. If we could teach them, they'd know as much as one is enough at some level of education. But I wanted to say, that's one element. So we miss it. We miss public action. But we also miss what organized crime, drugs, etc. is very perfiduous. The bigger the restrictive measures, the more criminal chains the drugs pass by, I don't know, our area, the more perfided. And also in that context, I would say, so the manufacturing industry, we don't have the name of a cigarette anymore, I'll only limit myself to cigarettes on a television screen, but that's why we have a greeting from a certain city. I'm not calling him here right now because of the citizens and the citizens who live in that city. But all those who don't know, and young people are concerned about why this city welcomes us? Why is there an exhibition of books? So it's not an action just to educate and ban. The action is also for those who have found a very perfidious way of presenting themselves and being an attraction to those who will be interested and who will thus come up with cigarettes. It's so much a conceptual action, and I don't think it should look back on the budget that limited the funds for certain actions of this kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3883	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3884	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After my colleague, Franic, had to answer and publicly admit it, I am unfortunately a smoker. After my colleague Jurjevic's discussion, I'd say I'm unfortunately a sick person. And unfortunately, I didn't quit smoking, I don't know if I'm gonna quit smoking. But I'm obviously the only smoker in this hall and in this House who reported on this wheel to say something. I never encouraged anyone to use the spirit, even though I tried to talk my children out of burning the first cigarette. After all I've heard, I would ask you all to answer one single question. Now I hear he's tobacco and radioactive, harmful, dangerous. How do you say that? We declared the drugs banned and banned the farming of Indian hemp. Tobacco is harmful, but no state has ever prohibited tobacco farming by law. We even encourage it from the state budget to plant and grow tobacco. So, please, everyone who has an impact on the World Health Organization, the Council of Europe, the European Union, the United Nations, let's go solve the problem and help me as a smoker. Ban breeding, processing and selling tobacco. You don't have to forbid anything else. You forbid that plant that's so dangerous. I won't ask to ban the cultivation of the vine because in the first glass is health, a colleague said. I like this other one, too, that's for fun. You don't have to go to third, I agree. So we found something useful and good in everything else, not tobacco. Come on, let's be the first country in the world and ban growing, processing and selling tobacco. Save billions, save billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3885	Thank you. Reply to the replica Mr. Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3886	... on this trail and in 2010 it will be fully restructured if it does not lift the subsidies for the planting of tobacco. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Otherwise, tobacco is problematic and because it simply does not allow other plants to grow on the same soil on which it grows so that changing fertility is problematic, resulting in artificial fertilisers being used and artificial fertilisers are currently containing these primordial radionuclides... And the uranium sequence so that actually this land where the tobacco grows is further enriched with radioactive elements that then the tobacco absorbs into itself and we come to a closed circle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These data are also available for the Republic of Croatia because there is a monitoring of the environment of radioactive contamination of the environment through which it is carried out through the State Department for radiation protection and these are known facts. I am personally very pleased that it seems that these discussions show that a large coalition is being created on the same goal and that is, if it is not a ban, the eradication of the habit of smoking in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3887	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3888	Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear guests at the gallery. There's been a lot of talk about tobacco damage, and I don't think there's anyone out there who won't support this convention, so do I. We talk a lot about the ban, but the debate today is obviously very useful. Here, we heard a tobacco addict who didn't quit smoking but who's on the verge of admitting he's still a patient but came to the conclusion that tobacco production should be banned. It is evident from the very text of this Convention that the purpose of the Convention and its protocols is to protect current and future generations from harmful health, social, environmental and economic consequences. The World Health Organization is indeed seeking elections for the highest protection of health standards for all people of the world. The Framework Convention on Tobacco Control has guidelines on which we have spoken individually, however, determine both the price of tobacco products and the reduction of tobacco consumption, protection from exposure to tobacco smoke, we have heard a lot about passive smoking, regulation of tobacco content, public disclosure of content information, regulation and advertising and sponsorship of the tobacco industry, and the fight against addiction of even the fact that 50% of the space should be contained and the harmfulness of smoking, tobacco damage. The World Health Organization, I have one piece of information, suggests and says it is the most useful so far, that the most useful thing has proved to be the rise in the price of tobacco 5% every year. When we talk about addiction, then here we mentioned a little offer of that tobacco. Well, I'm not going to advertise it, but the tobacco factory sold 14.6 billion cigarettes in 2007. So, billions of cigarettes. I must say, 51% has been exported. However, 10 million pounds of tobacco is produced in our country, or one third of wheat production. So it is still more useful to produce wheat than tobacco that we are still co-financed, as well as European countries, but in the hope of all these measures, I believe that we will stop it. The catastrophic fact is that in the world 5 million people die from smoking, that 1.3 billion people smoke. However, in the Republic of Croatia, every third person, 34.1% of men, 26.6% of women. Croatia consumes 2,000 and 86 cigarettes per capita annually, which is above the average in the European Union where the figure is 673 cigarettes. And it's particularly worrying, here are our children upstairs, the fact that as many as 32% of boys and 27% of girls aged 15 to 19 in the Republic of Croatia are constantly smoking. The World Health Organization warns that people who start smoking during adolescence will die from the effects of tobacco, smoke only today 20 to 25 years before those who have never lit a cigarette. Kids, don't smoke. Smoking tobacco, we're talking about whether or not it's classified in the disease. Well, it's really classified in addiction diseases and it's according to the international classification of injury and cause of death classified under code F17.0, which is called "spiritual disorder and behavioural disorder related to tobacco smoking". So there's really no dilemma then, so there's no need to be afraid of a colleague because it's already classified. Most of us are aware of the harmfulness of smoking and are particularly expressed in pregnancy, which several MPs have said, but I would say that pregnancy and breast-feeding are a huge reason for stopping smoking. The tobacco smoke contains 4000 different chemical ingredients of which more than 40 have been shown to be carcinogenic. Smoke particles are toxic, genotoxic, mutagenic, carcinogenic, teratogenic, affecting all organic systems. It changes blood levels at least ten hormones. And imagine in that system what happens then in our organism. In pregnancy, nicotine causes your constipation, narrows the blood vessels, so it reduces the flow through the uterus, resulting in a reduction in blood flow and through the baby, therefore, through the fetus. Carbon monoxide is 200 times higher and more capable of binding to haemoglobin than oxygen. So that kid doesn't have oxygen, he can't breathe. A woman who smokes one or two cartons of cigarettes, which is not a rare case for us, reduces fruit flow by 60%. After two smoked cigarettes, blood pressure increases in two and a half minutes, heart rate increases in mothers, and after five minutes, the heart rate of the fetus is accelerated. The effects of tobacco smoke are not harmless, I warn you, there is twice the risk of early spontaneous abortion, since the temporary, premature birth, increased congenital anomalies, that I am not telling you what they are, increased perinatal mortality, increased the possibility of sudden death of the child, and if all smoke is avoided at the end and the production of milk is reduced. In babies, it causes weakness, vomiting, and abdominal pain. So breast-feeding, after all of this, and breast-feeding is one reason to quit smoking. And we won't stop at that, but there are still studies in the intellectual development of children, they have a lower IQ lagging 4 to 5 months in reading, calculating, etc., etc. Smoking reduces the ability to conceive and give birth to a healthy child. I wasn't talking about lung cancer here about chronic obstructive disease and other problems that cause smoking, but let's remember that when we talk about population policy. All points to the fact that after this proposal for a law on the certification of the tobacco control Convention, we bring as soon as possible the Law on the amendment and addition of the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products, because indeed if one table says that we can smoke and on the other, we do not smoke that smoke without nicotine and other chemical ingredients. The smoker lives shorter, gets sicker, and despite everything together, we are really intolerant to the problem of smoking. The largest number of smokers, and when they decide to quit smoking, they actually do, they get rid of nicotine in five days, but they don't get rid of the addiction that follows them. All praise to our Mr. Andrija Printer. And here I would mention, which we didn't mention in these discussions, which is a Zagreb-known non-smoking school, which he founded, I think, Professor. Hudolin, who still exists today and who is successful and who has outstanding results. And after all, I would really say that a cigarette is the only legal product that kills. Please stop smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3889	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3890	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, so here I will briefly replicate with a few words to Mrs. Carmeli Caparin because I come from County which is the largest tobacco producer in Croatia and which is actually to say that according to some assessment of experts second in Europe is the quality of the manufactured tobacco produced in... County. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] By supporting this text of the convention that we are discussing today, certainly the harmfulness of tobacco products, and I am a smoker myself, so I know how much it hurts me and how much trouble there is with the airways. Although I absorb from smoking at the time of use, I know how easy it is to breathe, how easier it is to treat the obligations of daily and life when a man does not smoke. But I also have to point out what I want today in this replica to tell you that tobacco producers from Podravsky and... They certainly live on it, from this production that they based their economies on this production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if it wasn't for the absoluteity of what I heard in today's debates, surely other plants can't grow on land where tobacco grows. That's what I want to explain. First of all, tobacco is a specific plant that grows on sandy soils, and these are specific soils right in the sub-level pool, the land of sand on which it grows. When are we going to implement the irrigation project of our... The swimming pool and land not to it, we will certainly be able to reorient agricultural households to new production, and then tobacco will probably be a bit of a product that, on which agriculture will not depend and will slightly reduce its production and so on the state level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the question remains that multinationals who want to support our market too, certainly who have lobbyists in the European Union and everywhere else, want to shut down our production, our processing and want to win our market no matter how big and how much awareness our smokers and non-smokers are working on it. In fact, we also have to count on the profit that comes from the extra-profit cigarette.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3891	Thank you. Answer to Mrs. Carmela Caparin's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3892	Thank you very much. Thanks for this replica, buddy. You say you know how harmful smoking is. You don't know how bad it is because you're still smoking, but I'm asking you to stop smoking. And as for our people who have received encouragement and who in your neighborhood produce tobacco, I believe that we will create such new conditions, that we will produce some other culture and that which we are producing we will also sell to these lobbyists for tobacco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3893	Thank you very much. It's still in the name of the promoter. Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3894	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Thinking about what I can say in the final word, I can say one thing, here I've been called here in the ministry for three years now, and I can follow something, and then I feel called to say that it's a great pleasure to be here today and to hear that there's one great unity about one thing, about one such monster as I wanted and when we were teaching reports, let's say, about the suppression and drug control procedures, to get the same kind of unity that we should do. Personally, I think the real questions are open here. However, by concluding this debate today, it will not cease to ask or prevent these questions from being asked. Because, as the Minister of Health has said publicly behind this, confirming this Convention, the principle of commitment will be put before you very soon, and you will find a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a law which could now apply certain provisions of this Convention in practice. When you ask the question whether the government is satisfied or whether I may personally be satisfied with what has been achieved, I can say openly plainly and loudly. Because you're going to let me maybe get you through a picture of how I see it into a part of the close past that we all remember absolutely. We remember very well that it was an absolutely acceptable situation to light cigarettes on the tram, on the bus, at school. That it was no big deal if, say, at a time when I went to elementary school in a small middle here in northwestern Croatia, that the teacher normally, when the clock came out, lit a cigarette, that it was just as normal in the hospital to see the doctor walking down the hall and that he lit a cigarette, that nobody bothered. That at that point maybe there were at least those we used to talk this little bit into a nice nose joke that had a little bit of a problem with that smell, smells in the curtain, smells like what. But it's not really. I don't have many years, so I don't think it's been a long time and today when I look at it, I see that smoking is becoming an absolutely socially unacceptable action, where there are three groups of people in which we have directed all our activities. One group is those who will certainly never start smoking, but who we told is not only for your health that you will not start smoking, but for your health and not to be next to those who smoke. That those who smoke you move away and say forgive me, gentlemen, let me breathe if you want to poison yourself already. It is directed towards those who, for example, are young at the time of seeking their identity something that becomes in. And it's because it's forbidden. To begin to accept that we target them with all our aspirations and stop them in that one system means getting into smoking. That's where we're going to have the biggest test of the entire system. That's where we'll have the biggest test and the law and the sublegal acts and the stands and everything. But that's exactly the part where we do it on that part. And the third is a clear group of people who are sometimes not by their own knowledge, because I have to say it became a once ugly theory, which is that in some situations smoking even suits. So let's just say I'm going to remember the 18th century was not yet anesthesia, so it was said that nicotine from a cigarette was used to relax the patient so that he could be operated. So, even medical use of nicotine at that time. Of course it turned out to be the wrong one. Of course this has proved to be harmful. Clearly, in no case should it be any reason for anyone to say that they would start smoking or not start smoking. And that's an absolute shame in that. And that is why I can say that today when we enter the Croatian Parliament, when I enter the tram, when I pass the Jelačić pay with less and less you will see people standing on the side, smoking, people on the tram burning. Not walking sanitary inspectors on a tram isn't an invitation for someone to start smoking but not walking. Why? There's no need, because travellers on the tram simply isolate someone who, for example, would now take out a cigarette and light it. Well, I went to school, and I drove around neatly in a tram with guys like that. So, the great consciousness has grown. Is the question of fines charged any standard? It's not. Penalty measures should have an impact on how I listed three categories, and they could still be in subcategories to influence a certain group of people with penalties, that they might be tough and everything else. But you all said the key today, and that's prevention, and that's where I absolutely agree and I'm glad to hear it. The following year we celebrate the 60th anniversary and the World Health Organization and celebrate and therefore the establishment of World Health and I hope that it will be dedicated to the character and work of Professor Andrija Stampar and I am glad to hear that it is constantly spoken of by Professor Stampar. And that's why I'm saying, let's not look so much at whether the law was passed yesterday or the day before yesterday. It could have been. The law was passed in '99. A year. Does it apply? So clearly, if the law were to be absolutely applied, perhaps we would not be discussing the Framework Convention today. Like if the Transport Safety Act were applied, we probably wouldn't get people killed on the road. But it is obvious that we have a responsibility to people too, by implementing in one part of the law and by raising awareness from one side, by working on preventive measures clearly that we take criminal measures along with these measures and in some ways try to simply stop it. And so I can tell you are aware that every little in the media you hear about the actions of the Croatian police, you hear about big confiscations, about the actions. Of course it's not going to come out and it's not public news catching up to drug dealers' markets as you want to call or whatever they're selling pike, two cigarettes. Because it's a regular police job. But it is clear that when a larger action occurs which is more and more common and where border control amongst others is very good clear to publish and see that it is done in the field of therefore and control and eradication of the black market. Are we gonna make it? So let's not fool ourselves! We'll be able to reduce it to at least possible measures, but yet so many idealists I don't think we'll ever be able to close it down. And that is why I believe that in the near run when the bill on restricting the use of tobacco products comes before you, which will be fundamentally intended to harm no one, no economy, no caterer, no one but to ensure exactly what we are fighting for and in the first stage means a reduction of both tobacco smoke and tobacco smoke harmfulness and will certainly be such that they will always be able to seek improvements. But on the other hand, it will be such that it will ensure that in real time it will be and will be spent on behalf of the citizens, that you will support it with the same will as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3895	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We are going to vote on other points of the agenda. The first is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what we'll do next time, I'll warn you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Next time on the 26th, prepare all the keys because more tolerance is maximum. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, who's in? Thank you. Against? Who's against tobacco? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that the bill has been adopted unanimously by 129 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3898	Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Although Red Cross has been present in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for 130 years, the Croatian Red Cross in the new Croatian state was officially recognised on 26 October '91. years of consent by the Croatian Government for the establishment of the Croatian National Society of the Red Cross. May of '92. The Republic of Croatia officially accepted the provisions of the Geneva Convention of '49. and the '79 supplemental protocols. A year. By accepting the Geneva Convention, the Government of the Republic of Croatia guaranteed to the international community the implementation of the obligations imposed by the need for smooth work of the Croatian Red Cross as part of the international organisation of the Red Cross. I believe that everyone knows the contribution of the Croatian Red Cross in the recent Croatian history, but it is certainly not a waste to repeat perhaps a few important data. During the Homeland War, the Croatian Red Cross as a civil partner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia participated actively in the management of exiles and refugees and provided regular assistance on average for about 600,000 persons per year. Most of this applies to 1990, 1992, when regular aid was received by as many as 750 thousand people, which at that time accounted for about 17% of the population in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In these war years through various programs of assistance from material, food, hygienic products, etc. More than six billion kunas have been spent on psychosocial aid to the victims. How much was the role of the Croatian Red Cross in helping to find missing, imprisoned defenders and civilians as well as to help liberate defenders and civilians, the most I can say are those to whom this assistance was provided and their families to whom in most cases the Croatian Red Cross was the only credible contact outside of the cadamats in which they were located. I have to mention here one of the programs that has become practically everyday in the work and where human humanity and the need for selfless help for those who need this help, which is a system of voluntary blood donation, which is organized precisely through the Croatian Red Cross, and whose reputation is absolutely guaranteed that this assistance as well as others will come to those who need it and of vital importance. Today, the Croatian Red Cross operates through 130 societies in the Republic of Croatia, divided by the principles of division according to the regional state or local self-government and with its activities and with humanitarian work, focusing on preparations for action in major disasters, implementation of educational, preventive and social programmes based on the Red Cross movement, promotion of international humanitarian rights and other assistance programmes in society. In particular, it must be pointed out that the dedicated work of the leadership and all volunteers of the Croatian Red Cross, with the universal support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has led to a recognised situation, that an organization such as the Croatian Red Cross has become a provider of international assistance from various related societies of the world to help related societies in the world that need it and it serves us all together. 130 years of this humanitarian work, which is difficult to sum up in a few words, is worth marking in the quality of the way and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Assembly a decision to declare 2008 "the year of the Croatian Red Cross". Activities on the celebration of the year of the Croatian Red Cross would be organized in the organization and under the auspices of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of the President of the Republic, the Croatian Red Cross and other prominent institutions and individuals in the Republic of Croatia, and thought that the acceptance of this proposal is in fact public recognition of both the Croatian Red Cross and thousands of anonymous volunteers who showed their selflessness in humanitarian work by believing in the dignity and honor of the Croatian Red Cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3899	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3900	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 3rd joint session held on 21 February 2008 discussed the proposal for a decision to declare 2008 "the year of the Croatian Red Cross" in the Republic of Croatia. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system by majority vote, unanimously and unanimously with 10 votes in favour, support the adoption of this decision. The following amendment shall be submitted to the text of the decision by the committees. First to point 2. In point 2 of the first sentence, the words "in which they shall be appointed" shall be replaced by the words "which they make", and in paragraph 2 the words "the founding and appointment of members of the Honorary Committee" shall be replaced by the words "the founding and number of members and the appointment of members of the Honorary Committee from the order of the distinguished individuals and the organisations and institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of this point". Reason: In order to remove such a solution as to allow the Government to give a preliminary opinion on the elected representative of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia to amend the amendment by giving a preliminary opinion on the number of members and proposals for the appointment of prominent individuals and representatives of prominent organisations and institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3901	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3902	Dear Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government. There are not many occasions such as the one where the representatives of the position and representatives of the opposition will probably agree that the organisation that we are talking about is one of those examples and those frameworks of action in which we can recognize the mirror in some way the human conscience and consciousness of our society. The Croatian Red Cross can indeed say that it started working as a national society practically only after the independence of the Republic of Croatia, but it is not necessary to break up a tradition that is very valuable, 130 years long. It is something that is proud of the Croatian Red Cross and all those activists, and it seems to me that can be measured in millions, which over the last 130 years they have had and then took advantage of the opportunity of their active action for the common good. The Red Cross has a mission worth both in times of war and in times of peace. Unfortunately, only during the time of the war shows all the capacity, ability and capabilities of a large humanitarian organization such as the Red Cross, but the fact that in the time of the Homeland War Croatian Red Cross has indeed shown that it can accomplish its mission with full capacity. It's also a fact that every society on the sidelines lays down the problems that most of us take care of. The fact is that the Croatian Red Cross is one of the organizations that awakens the conscience of society in such situations and warns us that there are people who are selfless on the one hand, and on the other hand that many more people are in trouble and are in need of help. Some of the jobs that the Croatian Red Cross does for general good were mentioned here, so it is one of the most important activities that already has 55 years of history in Croatia, voluntary blood supply. However, the Croatian Red Cross is not only an organization that organizes blood collection and active life-saving but also organizes voluntary donors. And not only that, but in one way, it actively valorises this humanitarian, altruistic role. And thanks to him, many cities in the Republic of Croatia have passed certain regulations that stimulate voluntary blood donations. Unfortunately, there are still many poor people in our society, and the Croatian Red Cross must, unfortunately, also deal with poverty by means of its local societies. I know firsthand what it looks like because in some cities, local self - administrations and district offices, or the Red Cross Organization, mere cuisines work. Let's not forget, they're still part of our daily routine. In this regard, I welcome the proposal to make the 2008 Red Cross year and, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party, I call on us to take this opportunity twice. To remember the effect of the Croatian Red Cross in its 130-year history, but also to take advantage of this opportunity to popularise the work for the common good. The Croatian Red Cross is one of the organizations of such a type, thank God not the only one. There are many, but certainly the largest, with the longest tradition, best organized. Let this be a reason for us to promote even more in public, and we personally as representatives of this House, taking part in various activities to mark the year of the Croatian Red Cross in order to popularise the work for the general good as something that we can all give regardless of whether we have economic opportunities or not, because in this particular case, the first thing that is offered is always love. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3903	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3904	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the proposal for a 2008 declaration of the Croatian Red Cross and is pleased to support the proposal. The first voluntary associations in Croatia acted on internationally accepted principles of the Red Cross movement and were founded in 1878 in Zadar, Zagreb and Dubrovnik. Zadar's Institute of the "Dalmatian Patriot Cooperative of the Lord" to support wounded and sick soldiers on October 22, 1878, the first gets the consent of the then authorities for their humanitarian activities. Since then, the historical Croatian Red Cross has been working on our premises. On 10 October 1991, the Croatian Red Cross announced a decision on isolation and asked the International Committee of the Red Cross to recognise its full membership in the international Red Cross movement on the basis of action and compliance with all the conditions necessary for recognition. The Law on the Croatian Red Cross is also adopted in this High House on 19 November 1991. The International Committee of the Red Cross in 1993 recognises the Croatian Red Cross as a full member of the movement, and then the International Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent accepts the Croatian Red Cross as a full membership. In doing so, the Croatian Red Cross is becoming a truly important international entity. In recent history from 1991 to 1998, the Croatian Red Cross as a humanitarian organisation provides assistance to hundreds of thousands of war victims, helping 490 thousand exiles, refugees and other victims of war casualties. In 1992, the Croatian Red Cross helped 751 thousand people, 17% of the entire Croatian population. For health care purposes, the Croatian Red Cross has collected more than 1.1 million doses of blood. The search service accepted and distributed more than 1.5 million family messages, processing 28 thousand 700 missing persons requests. In international circles, the programme of return of displaced persons through which 130,000 people returned to their homes was assessed as the only successful process of returning to Europe after the Spanish war. So, the person and the return of persons of other nationalities. During the difficult periods of Croatian history, the Red Cross played an exceptional role in carrying out numerous activities with the help of a large number of volunteers, but on the fundamental principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality, independence, volunteering, unity and universality. It also means being available to everyone with humanitarian activity throughout the territory. The Croatian Red Cross has 130 years in the service of humanity and has a spot in our society and an exceptional international reputation. The Croatian Democratic Community Club thanks everyone within the Croatian Red Cross for everything they have done, congratulating on the 130 respectable anniversary by supporting the 2008 Proposal for a Decision on the 2008 Declaration of the Croatian Red Cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3905	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3906	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, allow me to thank, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and on behalf of all of our citizens first, all of these self-secret people who are and there are at least 500 thousand, who, by their altruistic actions, have helped all those who have been needed during these decades. Secondly, I would also like to thank you on behalf of the club and on behalf of the Croatian Red Cross leadership, I do not see that Mr. Javornik, who took over with his administration and led the Croatian Red Cross in the last 17 years. So thank them both to the citizens and to the leadership of the Red Cross. During his 130th annual history, the Croatian Red Cross worked in a series of social state arrangements from monarchy, kingdom, socialist system to today's free country of Croatia. But what has always been a constant of the Croatian Red Cross has always had the same goals, altruism, humanitarian action, standing up for a man, for a person who needs help. May 92, many of my predecessors mentioned it. In May 92, Croatia was recognised by the United Nations, becoming a full member of the United Nations, in May 92. The Croatian Red Cross has also become a member of those international contracts by succession. I remember May 92 because when I took off from the Croatian army, I returned to the white corner, returned to my job, my job on Rebr, so that May 92, we became a full member of the UN, and we became a HCK, so we became a full member, and thus it was recognised continuity over 130 years. Therefore, at that very burdensome time the Croatian Red Cross had done very much. Today 2008, what they have stated in their mission is a contribution among other improvements and health protection, so I will now speak both as a citizen and as a doctor. So, according to 55 years of voluntary blood donor, I have to be honest that we're all proud together of our first people who give the world's most voluntary fluid, and the second of us is in our glamour of transfusiological service, which has a very low incidence of infectious diseases, so it's transmitted to blood, type HIV, hepatitis-B and hepatitis-C. And it is very good and the SDP club absolutely supports the Croatian Red Cross in its mission to further improve and protect health, promote solidarity and alleviate human suffering. In 1928 we will celebrate 50 years of the Croatian Red Cross, 28, who knows where we will be 28. Some of us may be sitting here, but in any case, if these demographic indicators continue in 1928, every fourth citizen of Croatia will be over 65 years old. It's a data that's not cute. Each fourth citizen will be over 65 years old if such demographic indicators on the one hand continue an extremely relatively low number of newborns and, unfortunately, extremely high morbidity and mortality. This is more reason to include the Croatian Red Cross in improving the protection of health, therefore, especially a voluntary blood donor. I have no doubt that on the trail of 1st point and the state administration and the Ministry of Health will begin public health actions, such as the virus of communicable diseases, such as the epidemic that may be threatening us. We talked about smoking earlier, which I hope is leaving, we talked about our children who are no longer up there, about their unfortunately experimenting with alcohol, experimenting with drugs although as I heard on the Committee on Health, colleagues Javornik and the Croatian Red Cross will launch major actions precisely on the importance of pointing to the constant, permanent and permanent danger of possible drug consumption. So I'm going to remind you of the first point of the two industries that marked the 20th century, they brought some good ones, some bad ones. First it's the food industry, second it's the tobacco industry. The tobacco came in as bad as we can see. Food has brought a lot of good, but unfortunately for the past two decades thanks to fast food or Croatian fast food, it has led to an epidemic of obesity both in Europe and in the United States and Croatia. And that's why World Health said last year she declared the year's fight against obesity, so for years of pointing to those bad sides if we're done, we've absorbed the tobacco turn towards this other industry, and that's the food industry. So, one more time. The SDP advocates' club will support being declared this year for the year of fighting, or the year of the Croatian Red Cross. Once again, I thank all of our citizens for their humanity, their altruism, everything they do on a day-to-day basis for those who need it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3907	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3908	Dear Mr. President, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to send my congratulations to the representatives of the Red Cross of the Republic of Croatia on the anniversary they celebrate and express on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party for the 2008 Declaration of the Year of the Red Cross. Since here is often a bar in the area of my Sisak-Moslavina County, I have the opportunity to participate in the Red Cross congregations, I have to say that there are really extraordinary people, self-secret people who are willing to help in every opportunity, and rarely point out that, so whenever possible, they get involved in public actions and help those who are in need. And of course that's very important because we could hear many times that these countries are walking alive and dead people, and they are livingly different from the dead by the fact that living people notice the needs of their loved ones, so those who live there, who have certain problems. People who work in the Red Cross, people who are volunteers of the Red Cross certainly deserve all the praises because for years they have worked hard to invest themselves, their spare time, and their families to help others. Every national company of the Red Cross and thus the Croatian Red Cross is defined by law as an institution, an institution of special interest and concern for the country in which it operates, and this applies to the Croatian Red Cross. From that definition, the Red Cross National Society acts completely independently in accordance with the principles of the Red Cross movement always represents the government's first-election humanitarian agency, just as Caritas does when it comes to humanitarian and merciful organizations of the first election of the Catholic Church. In 2008, the Croatian Red Cross marks the 130th anniversary of its existence and activities in Croatia and it is certainly an exceptional anniversary. Especially if we remember a war period where the Croatian Red Cross has made great efforts, where he was a partner with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the care of exiles and refugees. But where he also supplied food, hygiene supplies, everything that was needed for people to function from clothes to various other supplies. During the same war period, the Croatian Red Cross helped search for missing and imprisoned persons, defenders and civilians. And according to my information, the Red Cross has successfully solved more than 10,000 open objects to search for persons and bring together separate families. Immediately after the end of the active conflict, the Croatian Red Cross starts programmes aimed at warning the danger of mines and easing this danger, in which it trains the returnees and the population near the battlefields, about how to behave in the event of finding mine explosives. Over 700 thousand of our fellow citizens have been covered by these programmes for several years. At this moment, the Croatian Red Cross is operating in four areas, of course all in line with the recommendations of the international Federation of the Red Cross, which is, above all, preparation for action in disasters, assistance in the implementation of health educational preventive social programs. The promotion of international humanitarian rights of human rights and the Croatian Red Cross in this regard has also established 12 programme units within which more than 40 programmes are implemented. All of us have the opportunity to see perhaps the clearest role of the Red Cross right through the collection of blood doses. But also in first aid training. Perhaps slightly less famous activities of the Croatian Red Cross are the help that the Croatian Red Cross organises for old and powerless persons in their families, in their houses. The programme is also being implemented at 33 locations in the Republic of Croatia. The Red Cross also plays a significant role in the development of the local community itself throughout the Republic of Croatia, but also in public health programmes, such as the purification of well water. Of course, the Croatian Red Cross has also made a significant contribution when it comes to helping asylum seekers, we know that in June 2006 the Ministry of Interior established a shelter for asylum seekers in Kutina and there the Croatian Red Cross played a significant role in providing and organising food, accommodation and psychosocial assistance, as well as in organising other social educational activities. The same applies to the prevention of human trafficking and, of course, the anti-trafficking programme and the prevention itself. Sam Croatian Red Cross is also a participant in various search activities. In 2007, he successfully completed 111 missing persons' search procedures. What is also important when it comes to the operation of the Croatian Red Cross. The Croatian Red Cross also has a very well-organised spring, about 75 thousand members are organized in 656 companies, 456 schools in Croatia are conducting Red Cross programmes, human values, humanity education, humanitarian law research as part of the national programme of education for human rights and democratic citizenship. And we think that is precisely the greatest value of the Croatian Red Cross because through its activities it has managed to interest young people to be sensitive to their neighbors, to all those who are in need of help and to be selfless and yet, of course, do it all volunteering. It is also important to congratulate and thank the Croatian Red Cross because during 2007, 35 times of action was carried out in which it collected extremely large money and clothing and food. An action called solidarity in action. And the Croatian Red Cross participated in various other actions when assistance was needed in countries that suffered either from earthquakes, floods or other disasters. Given all these activities he has and much more than he allows time to be counted, I would like to reiterate my support on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party to be declared the year of the Red Cross in 2008 and to thank all those volunteers and employees of the Croatian Red Cross who selflessly give themselves for others and thus provide a real example in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3909	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're about to interrupt the session. We'll continue at 3:00. The first is the HDSSB Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. And then we move on to an individual debate. Good run, everybody!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3910	We continue the debate, with the work, the individual debate Boro Grubišić, club, pardon Club, Boro Grugišić, HDSSB. Well, there's a debate about the Red Cross. You're not leaving. [[You don't even want to see the Prime Minister. We're looking for him and you don't want him.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3911	Dear Mr. President, oh, excuse me, Vice President, and the future president may be present, present, present colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I don't want to talk about ZERP, although we Slavons have our ZERP, which is, these are, they're, they're untapped surfaces that are about 1% in the Republic of Croatia, and we have enclaves of those, land cadastrians over the Danube, which are still not solved, and so it's barengrad... It's all our Slavonic ZERP, but it'll be his turn too, I hope, so we'll work it out in this High House, and it'll be time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I applied for a debate on the proposal for a 2008 declaration of the Croatian Red Cross. We all know and know both the history and the action of the Red Cross from its foundation of,... In 1863, we moved on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And especially about the operation of the Croatian Red Cross and its role especially in the Homeland War where it was clear that it was being implemented and that it was actually working on what the Geneva Conventions were and... They prescribed war action and everything that had to do with war destruction and everything that had to do with what the war had to do with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must mention, in particular, our, our Red Cross, here's to say, that a small-scale patriot in Slavon ship whose service during the wartime activities in Slavonski Brod during the Homeland War organized a voluntary blood donation and raised 20,000 doses of blood that amounted to about 10 tons, 10 tons of blood. So, when I'm talking about, the announcement this year of the Red Cross by this High House of the Croatian Parliament, and down on our board, we have one notice of diagnostic blood extraction for Monday, we could be, so to speak well, that, at that time, we'll be as constituencies and help with the red cross in its action, to be willing donors of blood, clearly except for those who have a contraindication medical for it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3912	Thank you. Respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović is an individual debate. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3913	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Here I express my satisfaction and support the proposal for a decision to be declared the year of the Red Cross in Croatia in 2008 because, according to my humble judgment, it is an additional contribution to the sensitization of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, to the sensitisation of the Croatian public to the multidimensional activity performed by the Croatian Red Cross, and with special emphasis on everything that is actually here, a wide circle of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, volunteers and employees of the Croatian Red Cross has done during the Homeland War. Namely this year we heard, and do not mind what I will do again, the fact that it marks the 130th year of existence and the work of the Croatian Red Cross, whose activity takes place through four types of programs. During the Homeland War is actually an invaluable contribution from the Croatian Red Cross through the care of exiles and refugees, through the search for missing persons, through voluntary blood donation, collection of food, clothing, medicines, whose value ranges between 6 and 7 billion kuna, through return of refugees to the work of the Croatian Red Cross in peaceful conditions through assistance in implementing measures of social policy, prevention of health threats, action in elementary disasters, and with particular emphasis that the Croatian Red Cross is also working as a donor and with a special emphasis on helping to combat disease addiction activities. Of course, this is an opportunity to say that this is actually an appropriate way to repay many members of the Croatian Red Cross, all volunteers and citizens who gather for their selfless action and thus further encourage them to do so in the coming years. In the end, I must also say that it personally gives me great pleasure, especially to the satisfaction that the town of Sibenik recognized the value of the work of the Croatian Red Cross and in 1997 it was extended by the award of the town of Sibenik to the Red Cross in Sibenik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3914	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Korushec.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3915	... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3916	Please turn on your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3917	Well, here's the moment, so I'm gonna cut my debate short, but I'd like to say this anyway. Introductoryly, I will immediately say that I support the proposal for a decision to declare 2008 "The Year of the Croatian Red Cross" in the Republic of Croatia and I do not think it is disputed for anyone in this assembly. Certainly the Croatian Red Cross deserved it because its role through history is irreplaceable, and especially the role in the Homeland War. Although the predecessors spoke of it, they did not say one fact that I publicly wish to say here, that the Croatian Red Cross has indeed taken over all international standards and that it approaches man by respecting his human rights, regardless of his race, about skin color, about sex, about language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education or social position. I considered this important because these postulates of the Croatian Red Cross were present during the Homeland War. But I have actually come forward because of something else that no one in this assembly has spoken of, and I am experiencing certain problems in the implementation of this valuable action, by declaring this year "The Year of the Croatian Red Cross". Look what it's all about. In local areas, I won't say that he started the process, but there are cases where city or municipal organisations of red crosses sue the city or the municipality that finance them. That's certainly not good. There are already court rulings, and there are current processes that are being conducted and I only mention it, I know that it is a problem of local environments but I am saying so that Mr. State Secretary and Ministry of Health know it as well as the management of the centre, i.e. the Croatian Red Cross. This problem will be solved even though it is not good and reminds me of a situation in history when a good-willed hand has been rejected and when it is actually very harshly treated by those who finance you I will not tell you who feeds you. In the near past, we know what this has led to, and these actions should certainly be stopped. According to my assessment, something worse is happening between the Red Cross organisations at the local level and the local media, so for today's debate from a local newspaper, I took one correspondence between a town's Red Cross organization and a local list, so I ask you for half a minute of patience, which is: The least this local list will suffer are threats to courts, seeking damages or similar blackmails for which the town's Red Cross Society obviously reaches through the law office. With this, but also an agreed relationship to each written line dedicated to that institution so far, we inform the public that the co-operation of this local list and the town's Red Cross while the present director is at the head of it, is over. That's what I'm saying because this really valuable, human action that has to have its dignity and dignity at local levels can have certain problems, so I'm just saying that as a warning. I thank all known and unknown, all anonymous especially anonymous volunteers who participate in the work of all municipal and urban organizations and Croatian Cross Croatia as a whole. It is indeed a respectable institution and people who do so out of a human call because they are, as a person by their vocality, working for the bad at the expense of their free time, at the expense of their families. I will conclude with this, that I certainly support this action, and as head of a local environment, I will do everything I can to make this action work because these hardworking people have earned it, it has earned every environment and Croatia as a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3918	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. He's gone? He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zdenko Franic? He's not here either. He's losing his word. State Secretary. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3919	Proposal for a decision to declare 2008 of the Year of the Croatian Red Cross in the Republic of Croatia. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. These amendments. Please, the Proposer shall be made aware of the amendments submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3920	Mr. President, amendments to the Legislative Committee are fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3921	Thank you very much. The amendments have been accepted. So I am voting on the motion for a decision together with the amendment adopted. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that 129 votes unanimously adopted this bill with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3922	We're moving on to the next point. - Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education of the Proposal for a Decision in accordance with Article 112(1) of the Treaty on European Union. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Drazen Vukov Topic will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3923	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education has been established that members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education are appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government. In accordance with this and at the personal request of Professor Vlasta Zanki, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out at its meeting on 14 February this year a proposal for a decision on the discharge of Professor Zanka as members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. You got that proposal, and that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3924	I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the HNS, respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3925	Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. We had a very interesting discussion a few days ago on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and then asked a few questions, so I will be here even though I am very sorry that there are no colleagues from the SDP because they were the drivers of some of these issues. I want first of all to conclude, and you all, unfortunately, know that in the past few years we have had a few unpleasant situations, so that the Republic of Croatia and some Croatian scientists have met on several occasions on the pages of the most read scientific and professional journals. But unfortunately in a negative context. It was mostly plagiarism charges, and we'll agree that all together is just not a pleasant situation. My colleagues and colleagues, intellectual property, scientific honesty, respect for the ethical code of science are increasingly and more under the glass of the public and our and international and fully justified. One of the questions raised at that committee session was whether mistakes were made in the appointment of members of the Committee on Ethics in science, since some colleagues claimed that individuals were selected by criteria that were not in line with the law, arguing that their scientific-national callings did not correspond to what the law requires of us, so if so, it is one serious mistake and we certainly need to see what to do and how to do. Furthermore, the Committee on Ethics and Science has prepared a report that will be here, it seems to me that point 14 of this agenda, and we have discussed this report and I must admit that more or less all the members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture have had certain objections and colleagues have, in good interest, even those who have been most valuable, asked that this report be completed in a way to make some decisions, some views, some opinions, and I hope that this will be the case. The question arises why these failures were made and what is the ugliest part of that story is that some colleagues claimed that it was among other things and because there are not a full number of nine members sitting on that committee, but only seven, and with this resolution there will be only 6. In this way, colleagues cannot cover all areas for which it would be expected to cover the selection that we have just made to have scientists from these areas, that they can fully competently process all these areas, prepare for us, etc. Therefore, it is certainly important to see why we are at seven and from today or tomorrow if we will vote on it on six and not nine members of that committee. My colleagues and colleagues, I'll be brief and I'll just add two sentences. One of the two chapters in the negotiations with the European Union that we have temporarily closed is the area of science and I hope that it will remain closed. That's why the Croatian People's Party Club would suggest that because of a number of issues, and in the best interest of resolving these issues as soon as possible, we should find representatives of our Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture with Ministry representatives to see where the failures were made, because dirty laundry should not be followed here or in front of the world scientific public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3926	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3927	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. The debate is the conclusion. I am voting in favour of the decision: "Professor Dr Vlasta Zanki is dismissed as a member of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education on a personal request." Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 129 votes, this decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3928	We move to the following - Report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2006 on the basis of Article 9. The Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures has been submitted by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures by that report which you received by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget and the Economy, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The government delivered an opinion. State Commission President Goran Matesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3929	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable Representatives. You have an annual report from the State Commission on the control of public procurement procedures. The State Commission was established by the Public Procurement Act and the State Commission. The state commission is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. She began working in 2003 by taking over the appeal cases of the Ministry of Finance, the Public Procurement Authority. In accordance with Article 9, a report on its work shall be submitted once a year. This report on the work of the State Commission therefore refers only to that public procurement, the part of the public procurement which, to which proceedings, complaints have been made. In that part, the state commission produced complete statistics, therefore, and that part of the public procurement that does not concern the appeal process itself. In this sense, statistics are given to read the phenomena that usually occur in public procurement. This report contains a full overview of all the overall activities of the State Commission, starting with human resources, budgetary statistics, to the extent that the law requires this report. Since this is the first report in front of the new assembly, I would like to say, in addition to this information, that the state commission has been established as a quasi-defying independent and independent state body. Independence is also manifested in the independent fact that the State Commission is an independent budgetary user, that members of the State Commission are appointed at the proposal of the Government by the Croatian Parliament for a term of five years, that the conditions laid down by the law are conditions for designation as conditions for resolution, that these conditions are in accordance with the European Union directives and the practice of the European Court of Justice. The state commission in this regard corresponds directly to the Croatian Parliament, and decisions by the state commission are necessarily legal. I want to say something about the anti-corruption effect of the state commission. The state commission is a significant anti-corruption body by its own definition because it provides legal protection, so it provides legal certainty in its good work in public procurement. In the framework of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption, the State Commission sees its objectives and activities in ensuring greater transparency of the public and the availability of the legal protection process it implements, strengthening the capacity of expertise and quality of the work of the State Commission, above all in achieving greater speed in the conduct of the appeal procedure and providing general information on its work and education of the public procurement law. From the general statistics I would just point out, I would like to draw your attention to some indicators, which is that in the work of the state commission in 2006 there were 759 complaints. The number, compared to earlier years, is in treasure, tends to fall slightly, not significantly but slightly. By comparing the number of public procurement proceedings with the number of complaints made, we get the information that 5.14% of complaints are therefore made against the total number of purchases. We can watch this information comparatively immediately with European countries. We cannot compare ourselves with someone, but it could be said to be a data that is approximately similar to comparative data on other countries. And this percentage of the number of complaints is which so the number of complaints is reduced. A new way, the new possibility of making an appeal since the amendment and addition of the law, which is the possibility of making an appeal on the publication of direct contracts in the negotiation process. In that segment we have far fewer complaints than usual, that's 0.8%. From this conclusion, one, one assumption that the complainant, at the time of the opening of that possibility, was simply not prepared, had not been educated to be able to make a complaint about these items. To immediately connect to the percentage of the cancellation of such procurement procedures in this, direct contracts are a far higher percentage of the cancellation of 78% therefore greater than that of 51% that occurs in these other procurement procedures. So, the state commission has cancelled 51% of public procurement procedures and award decisions during the exposure period, which data is respectable in the sense that it speaks here, we can immediately link it to the anti-corruption effect. This is the intervention of the rule of law in the legality of the procurement process. Of these data on the display of resolved cases, it would draw attention to the fact that 13, almost 14% of complaints were rejected, which he says, are being rejected as messy, which suggests that the complainants are not always technically and legally prepared to participate in such a procedure. Only 14.8% so almost 15% of complaints were rejected, which means that nothing illegal was found in these proceedings or that these purchases were legally carried out. He would like to draw attention that the total value of the procurement procedures reported in the complaint cases is 5.5 billion. The State Commission has shortened the length of the appeal procedure for a period of 5 days compared to the previous period. He's 35 days old now, I'm talking about the length of the appeal procedure before the state commission. In this regard, I must warn you that according to the European Commission, the appeal procedure in Croatia is one of the shortest not in the European Union because we are not yet in the European Union, but combined with countries in the European Union. From this data on the duration of the procurement process you will see that this procurement process is still very long, 133 days is the average procurement procedure, therefore counting the appeal procedure in these appeals cases in which the appeal was naturally made. I want to draw attention to what the law calls the most common offenders of public procurement regulations. The State Commission is unable to provide information on the most frequent offenders in the first place because it does not know how much information the contracting authority has so far is not in possession of the state commission, and it is not possible to find it, so it does not know how many procurement procedures are being conducted by the contracting authority. If this were to be known, the data on which the State Commission has available, which is how much the contracting authority has had the appeal and what success the complainant is in these appeal proceedings, would indeed reflect what the law requires. In the absence of this information, we simply gave a comparison of the number of complaints made and the score of success, so that this table that always causes media attention and here in the Assembly should be interpreted under these conditions. The State Commission is therefore giving birth to the appeal procedure and the obligation to pay fees and fees. With this basis, it has been introduced into the state budget of 2 million and 700 kuna which I want to bring into line with the State Commission budget and say that in this sense, since the budget of the State Commission is 4 000 and 700 that we are at least 50% and cheaper for the state than, yes. What I would also like to say, during this exposed period, the State Commission led with the success of a twinning project called strengthening the capacity and administrative capacity of the State Commission financed by 600,000 euros by the European Commission. It's pretty familiar, but in the report you'll find which inputs so, the results of this project were. What I want to tell you is that in this year, the European Commission has declared the best practice or best project in the European Union, therefore, in the CARDS system for that year. The assessment of the situation in public procurement is something that is also a legal obligation, serving the legislator, and this Parliament and the Government to draw conclusions and one part of these conclusions actually I owe you because of the parliamentary elections this report for the sixth came in this year and not in the previous one. One part of these evaluations of the situation in the legislative framework is practically and consummated with the adoption of a new Public Procurement Act. However, in the sixth, he did indeed behave as such. What I would like to particularly apostrophe is a fact that is generally known in the European Union and in public procurement systems, which also concludes from the Report of the Office of State Audit and part of the general public consultation, which is that a significant number of public procurement procedures, therefore, does not come into the situation that legal protection can be consumed. These are procedures, of course, which are excluded from the application of the law. That's legal. However, if it is interpreted extensively excluded from the application of the law, and in the current regime it has not been published then there was no possibility of legal protection. So that the practical abuse of exclusion from the application of the law could result in one very illegal fact by maximum illegality because in the European Union it is considered to be a maximum breach of public procurement rules when public procurement is not carried out at all. Others are illegal sharing, value sharing of the items of procurement by obtaining, to allow for a more liberal public procurement process, even to a direct contract in which there is no competition, in which there is no choice, in which there is no choice, nor legal protection. I would also like to say that this new option, therefore, is a direct contract in a negotiating procedure without prior publication in a consensual form, has appeared in legal protection, and a large percentage of such complaints has been adopted, indicating in one sense that some contracting entities have tried to start some purchases through this way, through this way. So if anyone makes a complaint, if they don't, then it's done. Here, in the end, I would say again that this is just a report on the work of the State Commission, that this is part of an evaluation of the public procurement system, so the legislative framework and legal protection, and that this is not, does not represent a picture of the whole public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3930	Thank you very much. Reporters of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget for the Economy, Development and Reconstruction? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. She's gone. The club loses its word on this agenda point. Honorable representative Andrija Hebrang, HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3931	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the State Commission for Public Procurement, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another report from the State Public Procurement Commission, which I must say immediately, we will support, because it is high-quality, contains all the necessary elements and shows if we are reading and analysing these figures that the Commission itself has played in the development of the public procurement process and also in our anti-corruption programme. Therefore, the Commission was established in 2003 if I am not mistaken, and then it took over all the competences from the current Ministry of Finance administration and since then it has contributed three main segments, for three main segments of public procurement and this is the possibility of insight into the whole problem and the whole public procurement procedure, the safety of the one entering public procurement, but also the safety of the one who has observations on the procedure itself. In 2006, for which this report relates, the Commission further perfected the system itself, so I will just list a few initiatives and a few Commission activities with my daily activities as Mr Matesic spoke about. I'd like to point out the following. The Commission therefore had three objectives in the 2006 report year, which is to further improve the legal frameworks of public procurement, and the Commission certainly improved this system by actively participating in the proposal for new solutions. She then worked on the education of members of the State Commission itself to educate them, to learn about European Union guidelines, similar commissions. Finally, and not less importantly, the Commission has worked on the education of all participants in the procurement process, primarily in the legal protection education they can have in the process itself. In this regard, the Commission organised seminars in the Republic of Croatia with the support of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and held a seminar for journalists, which is particularly important because it showed them the possibility of access to information. And precisely in the availability of information, the Commission has made a significant contribution to the anti-corruption strategy and the Government of Croatia programme, as it has led to what is called, I do not like the term but some say transparently, I would rather say visible and visible business in public procurement. Therefore, all data are visible, visible because the Commission has placed them on websites on which you can find all information on the information needed to file a complaint on the procurement process, the register of proceedings, therefore, of all the cases which the Commission is conducting. And examples of legal practices from the Republic of Croatia and legal practices from the countries of the European Union. Which is very educational in further improving the public procurement process. By its activity, the Commission, as you heard from the Report and read, significantly contributed to the effectiveness of its work, shortened the time needed to resolve the complaint to a truly minimal extent. And further shortening I believe it's not possible. It also educates users of such a appeal procedure to enable them to exercise their legal rights. From the results, I would say that the commission was very effective because it solved 90.8% of the items it received and the ones it did not solve or which it inherited were not itself guilty of not being solved but simply those items were not complete in its documentation and, of course, the commission could not solve them. But the high efficiency of 90.78% is indeed commendable. As for the number of complaints, we see over the years that the number of complaints about public procurement procedures is in the gradual reduction. So he was three, four years ago about 6%, 2%, etc. I think this year 696 complaints as many as they had on 13,000 548 public procurement, the public procurement process is 5.14%, so one frequency that shows one tendency to reduce the number of complaints. However, it may be just an apparent picture when we analyze further data. Of all complaints, 51% were adopted, so the number of complaints received is in a slight increase. It was 47, 48% of the previous years. However, here may be a place to say that there is one segment of public procurement that the commission cannot or is obliged to participate in. I also warned a year ago in the debate about this and these are major international cartels that unite in public procurement procedures, divide the terrain, the terrain is Europe, the terrain is the whole world and then make artificial monopolies. For example, in one area of public procurement, I will not mention names long ago we cannot get offers of more than one or two large world companies that produce equipment in this area because these other major international agreements have been defined for other countries and thus are created artificial monopolies, so it might be good to analyse, of course, it is not the responsibility of this Commission but to analyse such abuse of public procurement systems that are actually present in all European Union countries. And it is just now a big affair that a German company, as it reads online, has invested as much as a billion euros in public procurement. Thus, neither those who are much longer in the process are immune. And that's why I think our commission's role was very high because it channeled public procurement into legal frameworks in most cases. What is true is what Mr Matesic, the president of the state commission, also mentioned an alarmingly high number of public procurements without a settlement or direct settlement without the announcement of competition. During this period, if I read well, there were 3 thousand 371 such direct contract procurement procedure, direct settlement without publication, 3 thousand 371. That's about roughly a rough quarter of all public procurement. More interestingly, only 19 complaints or 0.8% were filed on those 3 thousand 371 direct contracts. Those complaints were adopted at a high rate of 76%. So they were justified. You should ask yourself why so many competitions without competition, so with a direct contract and why so few complaints. Why is it so few complaints it is clear because the dynamics of the budget is such that the complainant of the direct contract cannot even welcome the end of the appeal procedure because the fiscal year is up. If it goes with its appeal to administrative proceedings, the Administrative Court has no chance of obtaining its satisfaction by the end of the fiscal year. And that's something that should definitely be corrected in a way that I don't have a proposal for, but you should see what it's like in other countries. But what you should certainly try to do is to reduce so many purchases outside the public tender. What are the reasons? The reasons aren't always as unfair as anyone would think. The reasons are probably in a very long procedure of a normal public procurement system that lasts about three to four months on average, and longer. So, even longer than four months. And now if you go to public procurement somewhere in the eighth month, you don't stand a chance by the end of the fiscal year to end up legal through public procurement procedures, and then you resort to a detour like this and you go straight into a direct settlement. So, you should probably work it out but of course it can't this commission, it solves its segment very quickly. It should work to speed up all these procurement procedures and to remove possible administrative barriers. What is very significant at the end of its report, the Commission also made a series of recommendations to improve the public procurement system. I would refer only to the register which is shown here and in which we see every company, every public procurement to which the complaint is expressed, as well as the result of that complaint. Since I am particularly interested in the field of health because we know that public procurement is of particular interest, health technology is developing very quickly and the needs for supply are very large but also a large number of health institutions that have relatively large amounts of money, insufficient but large for the normal functioning of these institutions, so we will see a few interesting things. Among those entities where a large percentage of complaints have been resolved positively, therefore, many health institutions are unfortunately found. For example, General Hospital Vukovar cancelled four out of five complaints, in KBC Rijeka five out of six, Split-Dalmatia County Home of Health four out of five, Clinical Hospital Split four out of five, KBC Zagreb six out of nine, etc. So in the hospital procurement system, the most interesting suppliers are food, medicines, consumer medical material, and maintenance of the plant. There are obviously a number of misunderstandings in these public procurement systems because a large percentage of such abolished or accepted complaints, abolished public procurement procedures, should probably be made here to see what happens in health institutions when food is ordered, when consumer medical materials are ordered, when maintenance works are ordered, etc. Because the percentage of such public procurement cancellations is very high. In the cancelled tenders in health institutions 90% refers to the purchase of materials and the smaller part for significantly expensive equipment supply, this is the same interesting thing, so we should probably do a little research on what it's about. Well, let's get this over with. The evaluations, conditions and recommendations given at the end of this report by the State Public Procurement Commission are very high-quality, practical and certainly should be applied and accepted in the further development of this public procurement system. First of all, it is a lack of regulation for certain stages of public procurement, a defect in regulations, that is, what the European Union is objecting to or imposing as a commitment, it needs to be corrected in the next phase. Then legal protection which is late because the whole public procurement process is to be completed. Therefore, mechanisms should probably be found to reduce the process of public procurement in the event of irregularities prior to the completion of such a long process of public procurement and to detimise the circumvention of the legal process on public procurement. And finally, as it states in the note, part of the proceedings does not end in a complaint procedure before the State Commission because the procurement procedures are exempt by law by the basis of Article 6. The public procurement law or because the total amount of necessary material has been broken to smaller quantities in order for individual purchases to be below 200,000 kuna and would not be subject to the Public Procurement Act or because it is directly negotiated without publication as previously mentioned. It's final. The report is high-quality, instructive, ending with recommendations to be adopted and I therefore believe that in 2006, the State Public Procurement Commission fulfilled its significant role in curbing corruption, in strengthening the procurement process and in giving legal guarantees to all those complaining in the process. That's why I recommend this report on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3932	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS club, Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3933	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here we have seen in this report on the work of the State Audit to control the public procurement process for 2006 that transparency is guaranteed through the website of that state commission, it is certainly ok. In 2006, they had a budget of 5 million 297 kuna, their expenditure plan was made with 82.59% with 20 employees, and I personally think, regardless of what he is asking for another 6 employees not to be allowed because I have the impression that there are no jobs either. What bothers me, however, is that these members of the public procurement are in an incomparably better position than MPs. So like they're looking for employees so they can work, and I think it's absurd that MPs have absolutely no one around, and we do. This year alone, we need to adopt 121 European laws, which I know will ultimately be 500 legal and sublegal texts, and that means that if someone doesn't... the quality of these legal acts will be at least questionable. But let's let it go now. In all, in 2006, you had 759 cases. In a year, 20 people handle 693 items. Turns out to mean every employee of these 20, 34,65 items or 2.88 items per month per employee. Well, that's probably not how it's supposed to be calculated and calculated, but we can figure this out on a day like this, that commission has 1,89 items. It means that this commission doesn't break away from work. It means they don't need six additional employees. Last year, 693 decisions, laws, conclusions, declarations, resolutions were made in the House, and all should be done by one representative. I repeat it simply is not possible, and therefore, the country's gentlemen are not working for us, and that's why our laws are the way they are. And that's why MPs should be followed by some teams, not by state secretaries coming to the Audi Parliament, with drivers, secretaries, advisors, and we're playing power, and we don't even have a "v" from that government. But what matters is. In 2006, there were 13 thousand 548 public procurement announcements and 5.14% of those 13 thousand 500 and so many complaints or 696 complaints. In 2006, we also had three thousand 3371 direct contracts. On page 18, we are talking about the following, the initiated appeal procedure and the number of cancellations. I won't talk about it much. The tables are clear. There's no one from Istria. I just can't believe it's all clean down there. Of these 689 commission decisions, 51% of complaints are adopted, 14.8% of complaints are rejected, 13.8% of complaints are dismissed, 7.4% are suspended. But the point is the next one. These 689 procedures have been difficult 5 billion 595 million kunas. Of these, the work includes 2 billion 823 million kunas, for the purchase of goods of a billion 838 million kunas, for 934 million kuna services. It is interesting that in 2004 or 2005, there were more items received compared to the 2006 report, although we are now in 2008, and this would be how it would be. For 2004. 7.2 billion kuna for 2005 5.8 billion kuna, 2006 I said 5.6 billion kuna. It's as if belief in the work of the commission in citizens is falling. It's like people figured out the less I'm suing myself, the sooner I can do it. Now the question is whether it's a contribution to corruption or whether it's in some way circumstantial, I'm not going to say legalizing corruption, I'm going to call it corruption. On page 31 days is a license plate. The biggest absurd is that in 547 cases, the lowest price is indicated. It would seem clear logical if you were always looking for the same cell phones or I don't know the same things, but that criterion isn't always going to be agreed on here, and the most honest criterion. I agree, and we either agree, or we can agree, that the state's largest is also an employer. It has 50% of the gross social product. So, of the 36.5 billion euros in gross social product of the Republic of Croatia, about 40 per cent is spent on the budget. If we add it to Ina, HEP, Croatian Waters, Forests, I don't know Croatian Insurance, Croatian Post Office, etc. That's cca 60% of GDP's waste in the country. 40% of public procurement refers to the private sector of which 90% of those 40% of those who participated in the transformation and who clearly no one can do anything anymore because they actually became pillars of society. They certainly work on their own interest, and they in some way indirectly influence the writing of certain rules by individual bodies in the government, which we then, with our mental intensity and adoption. Those who have participated in the conversion of the 1990s are those who now and most work with the state, who get the most jobs from the state and who most I will say corrupt those who give them the job, not to say power. And that says that our former representative, colleague, Mr. Royce, was right to let anyone bail out. Those who took part in the conversion of the 1990s today are the pillars of society and in one word “a grandmother with cakes” so that it can be placed under the quotes “salts on the tail”. Which is the most common reason for cancelling the contest. This was given in this table or better said in these reasons on page 38 of the illegal documentation for competition, infringement of the rules in publication, use of short deadlines without justification and the existence of justified reasons, violation of the rules of procedure, breach of the material provisions of the Public Procurement Act, application of the criteria of the most economically favourable offer, etc. It actually turns out that almost everyone who does something can be if it's in someone's interest to find it in the case that I express myself like that and that's the point. Then how long are the procedures going on? We heard earlier that those in Croatia may be a little shorter than they were in the west. It is most often said in those arguments that the process is ongoing until the documentation is completed. That's okay. However, we must introduce another rule and only because of this I took part in this debate, that if anyone wants to, that if someone loses that dispute, if someone misbehaves the dispute. Then this company should not have anything to seek again in a new competition and clearly this same company with such malignancy should pay the costs due to a delay in an investment. Why is it simple to treat these complaints in strictly justified cases, rather than sometimes knowingly creating damage to business entities that give a job in a public tender, etc. And for the end. This report should be clearly accepted. It's not a question. But the essence of irregularities should be sought on the biggest investments, not that 40% of these irregularities are de facto related to offers up to £200,000, so it turns out that big business is passing us by, and in fact, we're burdening ourselves with these petty transactions with up to £200,000 which raises the question and functioning of the state commission itself, and in fact, the purpose of the proceedings is not knowing the control of public procurement. Finally, we will accept this report clearly. I think it's more or less okay. But I also don't think there's any need for additional people or personnel on the state commission, because then it's going to burden the budget and let the gentlemen with the existing 20 members or people do a little bit more effort and let the job do as the MPs do at the moment. Of course, we're here alone, and there's 20 of them anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3934	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3935	Mr. President, President of the State Commission, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would say that the Croatian People's Party Club will accept this report. We would especially like to thank Mr Matesic, the president of the state commission, for the fact that he pointed out the weak link I would say in the system, and that is why I would like to save a little time, not to repeat what my predecessors said, but to speak more about what is not in the report, which I would like from the HNS club to be the subject of our discussions both this and the following years, which is precisely about the weaknesses that Mr Matesic also spoke about. Well, my colleagues and colleagues, first of all, let me read two sentences on page 39 because I think they're crucial to our further decision-making. The number of complaints made about the procurement procedures by means of a direct contract in the negotiation procedure without the publication of a call for competition in relation to the number of total disclosures of such procurement means that only 0.8% of such purchases are controlled by the state commission. So 0.8%. Out of the total complaints received for public procurement proceedings when a direct contract has been chosen as a means of procurement in the negotiation procedure without the publication of the call for competition, the percentage of the adoption of such complaints is 76% and is significantly higher than the total percentage of 51.09% of the complaints received. Therefore, the complaints lodged on a direct contract in the negotiation process are adopted in a significantly higher percentage. Now, colleagues and colleagues, in the Public Procurement Act, some major economic operators are excluded from the obligation to purchase through a public tender, huge economic operators. Here's the shipbuilding as one such system. Maybe we can take her as an example. So what needs to be installed in the ship is supplied by direct contract. Huge amounts of material, goods. Shipyards do not even have the obligation to publish their intention to directly negotiate in “The People's Newspaper”. They don't even have that obligation. I remind you colleagues and colleagues that the shipyards are now heavily subsidized by the state. I absolutely support it, but I'm talking about one example that we have to put on the table and clearly compare with other systems that are equally excluded from this law. I would like to tell my colleagues and colleagues that the government members are sitting on the monitoring board of our shipyards, and that is enough to ensure transparency and the public. Ten days ago, we heard in a debate when one of the parliamentary deputies asked the prime minister about the Supervisory Board of one of our shipyards, we heard that the Supervisory Board had met twice during the last year of that shipyard. Once telephoned, and another time in Zagreb. As far as this Supervisory Board is concerned, let's be honest, really monitor what's going on in that shipyard. Therefore, to minimise our colleagues and colleagues, we propose that in the future we devote a lot more time to those details that we do not have in the annual report, which Mr Matisic referred us to, and in the report correctly stand as weaknesses, we try to see how to regulate and correct the amendments to the law. Because if you talk to people close to these economic systems, you will see that they are talking about special cooperatives, how these cooperatives deserve special attention because of the special way of bargaining, because of the special prices they receive for their goods and services, because of the particularly short deadlines for paying them, these special cooperatives, and of course there are a series of special opportunities for state subsidies and taxpayers' money to go and special during. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3936	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, who is not there. He's losing his right to debate at this point. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3937	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. President of the State Commission. The report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure for 2006 is indeed both quality and content and transparent, and it does not only distinguish certain facts and phenomena, but also directions and tendencies, or trends of certain phenomena. Without a doubt, the State Commission also found in its report that public perception of public procurement is quite linked to corruption. I wish that perception was based entirely on prejudice, but unfortunately it's not. Since we tend to exaggerate in Croatia, it is to assume that there is an exaggeration in the case of perception of the character of public procurement, but the negative experience of public procurement often has a very clear foothold. However, a detailed analysis of this report shows that public procurement still predominates with a positive sign. I will, therefore, firstly point out the positive sightings observed, citing a number of the facts that point to this. Several years in a row, the State Commission has received an increasing number of appeals cases, while at the same time increasing the number of public procurement posts. In 2005, 708 complaints were filed on 8 thousand 675, i.e. 8.16%, and 696 complaints were lodged in 2006 and 0.8% respectively. In 2006, 46 complaints were filed to the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. only 0.34%, on 13 thousand 548 public procurement notices on decisions by the State Commission. The foreign and European integration ministry has not annulled any procurement decisions in the Split-Dalmatia County, although there have been appeals. From the facts with a negative sign, I would only point out that the report lists 6 legal persons to whom the State Commission has annulled the procurement for each complaint received. The management of the Split coast road, transport Split, the Institute of Public Health of the City of Zagreb and the City Communal Economy of Zagreb, City gas station Zagreb and Vukovar General Hospital should certainly change their business habits easily. Right next to them is the Rijeka clinical driving centre, with 6 complaints of procurement decisions being annulled in 5 cases and 83%, respectively. It concerns the high number of decisions annulled in the procurement and, for example, 11 in INA, 15 in the city of Zagreb and the like, and the apparent increase in complaints received by the State Commission so that 47.3% of complaints were adopted in 2004 for example, in 2005. 48.02% and 51.09% of complaints were accepted in 2006. Of course, there should be a retention in the overall valorisation of the data contained in the report on the percentage of public procurement cancellations, because such an assessment lacks data on the total number and nominal value of all public procurement, by all legal persons, and the percentage and nominal value of the cancellation of procurement decisions by legal persons in relation to the total number and nominal value of all public procurement made by legal persons. Some of the findings of the State Commission in connection with the lack of a legal framework for public procurement are no longer fully current because the Public Procurement Act, which entered into force in 1.1.2008, is a public procurement procedure in line with European Union standards. For this reason, I believe that the State Commission has not only produced a very good report on its work, but has contributed to the transparency of public procurement and the development of market conditions, but has also acted as a direct anti-corruption instrument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3938	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'd say the following, which the distinguished representative Maric stressed deserves special attention. Public procurement culture in some companies, unfortunately this statistics shows alarming. If done, as Mr. Maric did, one simple regression analysis, then some unfortunately within the year-by-year remarks would repeat the same mistakes. Therefore, it is serious companies, it is large companies and public procurement cultures in these companies that are worrying and unfortunately it creates one harmful and unacceptable perception. It is about large companies that are very important to their ability to effectively spend small, relatively small investment resources compared to the budget they have in the mood. And I'd like to say one more thing. Certainly sectoral analysis would be very useful, Professor. Hebrang pointed to health care, and I would say the energy sector deserves as much special attention. Therefore, education is yes, but it is a fact that in some places in some important public sector companies, unfortunately despite your good and quality work, little is changed for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3940	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3941	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, colleagues and colleagues. Let me immediately at the beginning of my debate praise and support the comprehensive and transparent report given on the work of the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures for 2006. Even though we are considering this report at a time when the new Public Procurement Act adopted by this House in October 2007 was in force and which the Republic of Croatia agreed this area with the legal gains of the European Union, I appreciate that it is good to see once again how legal persons are bound by the implementation of the Law on Public Procurement under the provisions of the 2001 and 2005 laws did so during 2006. A team more because a few weeks ago we also adopted a report by the State Audit Office for 2006 that pointed to a number of failures that occurred precisely in the implementation of public procurement procedures. The interestingness of this report is precisely because it only reports about those public procurement procedures that have been initiated before the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures in 2006. And the report shows that the number of complaints in 2006, a total of 696 were lower than those lodged in 2005 and 2004. A total of 13 thousand 548 publications on public procurement in the public procurement of "National Journals" in 2006 received a public commission of 696 complaints or 5.14%. These 696 complaints refer to 413 different contracting entities. In the accompanying register, the contracting authorities and the complainants in the procurement cases as well as the decisions made by the State Commission on the complaints lodged. By refusing to enter into the structure of the decisions taken by the State Commission on the complaints made, let me stress what I consider most important in this report. The work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures also in 2006 achieved the objectives of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006-2008 because, among other things, greater transparency, the public and the availability of the legal protection process, which allows for strengthening the rule of lawfulness and sanctioning illegal practices. Together with the development of legal practice and interpretation of public procurement rules, as well as the education of users and applicants in the application of public procurement rules, it is contributed to the fight against corruption in this field of activity. I believe that the final assessment of the public procurement situation will, in general, be carried out in this report from the state commission's point of view, which includes an assessment of the legitimacy, institutions, users and obligors of public procurement rules, as well as an assessment of the legal practice, literature and doctrines, and will be significantly modified by the application and implementation of the provisions of the new Public Procurement Act for which all public procurement bonds are seriously prepared this year. I'll support this report and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3942	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3943	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable President of the State Commission! The law on public procurement and the Law on the State Commission was established as already said four years ago or more precisely at the end of 2003 by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. I stress that, as an independent and independent state body, the conduct of the appeal procedure against decisions taken in public procurement procedures is in the works. The report submitted to commend it gave a detailed overview of the cases received and resolved by species and structure. Analysing the state of legal protection in public procurement, I would say that there is a lack of regulation governing the work and conduct of the state commission, as well as the application of procedural provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act which reflects a particular one would say legal uncertainty and difficulties in the appeal process itself. In fact, the procedure itself is initiated and conducted solely on the basis of the appeal lodged and no procedure under official duty. There is no possible control of each stage of the procedure leading to the annulment of the entire procedure even though the injury occurred at an earlier stage. Only the duration of the procedure is not fast enough because of long-term communication with parties regarding the delivery of the documentation itself. And certainly, a number of procedures that never get legal protection get out of hand. The anti-corruption effects of legal protection in public procurement are manifested by the creation and functioning of a state commission providing legal protection, providing for and allowing the sanctioning of illegal proceedings. Certainly, transparency, the public of work and the availability of communication with parties in the process contributes to the fight against corruption. I believe that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act adopted last year, which has been in force since 1 January 2008 contained solutions derived from the experience of the objections and proposals made by the State Commission, since the deficiencies identified in the 2005 report are similar to those resulting from this report, so that they could be incorporated into that law. I therefore support the report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3944	It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3945	Thank you very much, Mr. President... Firstly, I would like to thank those responsible in the commission who have given me a quality report with a set of data and a way of showing these data that can be operationally useful not only now when we are discussing this report, but also when we will discuss possible new legal regulations as well as other bodies' reports in the context of the implementation of the National Programme on the Prevention of Corruption adopted by this Parliament, and in this context alone, I would like to say a few sentences about the report. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] That the area of public procurement is also extremely important in the fight against corruption is also proof that there is a particular chapter in this national programme on the subject. These 5.5 billion kunas of the purchase value covered by this report in terms of appeal approaches and all that is probably just part of it, I would even say a small part of public procurement financed from public funds, and this is a good note from fellow Hebrang that the number of exceptions set out in Article 6 of the Law itself is huge and by the number of entities but also by the amount of money used in public procurement which is the subject of the exemption provided for in Article 6. What I want to point out is next. It's not good when we look at some problem or non-compliance with the law through collective responsibility and not individually. And in such a situation we will never come to the fact that, by disobeying the law, even the Public Procurement Act, there is an individual responsibility. A colleague of Hebrang noticed that there were a large number of entities where public procurement from the health sector was invalidated, but not just health care. Public Health Institute Zagreb, City municipal economy of Zagreb, General hospital Vukovar, City gas station Zagreb, Clinical hospital center Rijeka, Home of Split-Dalmatia County, Clinical hospital Split, Zagreb County, Croatia lottery, Airport Zagreb, Clinical hospital center Zagreb, EP, INA, Ministry of Health, Croatian Post Office for Protection and Rescue, Croatian Roads, Croatian Forests, FINA, City of Zagreb, Croatia Railway, City of Split, HEP transmission system operator and Ministry of Defence. These are companies, institutions or state authorities where the number of public procurements of more than 50% has been cancelled and the number of cases or number of complaints exceeds 4. So somewhere there was one, two or three purchases during this observed year than 4 and over and where the number of cancellations is greater than 50%. Now take the 2005 report and compare it with the same methodology that was listed in that problem at the time. Half the ones I read to you were back then. Half of them will be there for 2007, I'm sure of it. A fellow Hebrang also noted that there was not so much cancellation in this health care sector in the purchase of expensive medical equipment but materials, from food and beyond. If we have seen this as a problem and I see it as a problem it would be extremely useful and good for all those who are in charge of these bodies of government, institutions, companies in largely state-owned property to question leaders and administrations who are these people who receive solid salaries and are in charge of public procurement. I do not believe that in the Ministry of Health, in the City of Zagreb, there are not enough lawyers in the EP, that I cannot learn and remember the Public Procurement Act, the more Mrs. Šima Krasic from the State Audit and the Commission said that she also made the most of her efforts to be advisory. Seminars, tips, instructions, information, all in order to facilitate the respect of the law. So if the two state institutions, the state commission and the State Audit are making significant personnel efforts to help comply with the law and, year by year, the same ones appear to be problematic and if we accept that the limit line is 50% of the cancellation by the cause where we might ask why this is happening, I think by asking the administrations and leaders of these institutions who are those individuals who have been causing the same problems for years. I don't believe the Minister of Health is guilty, for example, of cancelling the procurement bids for the Ministry of Health. I don't believe the defence minister at the Department of Defense is guilty because it's a special service or whatever it's called. But it is unacceptable and unacceptable for these same people to remain in their seats and positions for three, four years and we are constantly receiving a report or a State Audit or this state commission that there is the most common problem in respect of the Public Procurement Act. There is no greater effect when the issue of such responsibility is not put personally and personally and sanctioned, from fine to termination of the state service if necessary. We'll have two effects. We're gonna get these people out of here, and we're not gonna have to be ashamed that inside the state administration there's this in state institutions and state-owned companies. And secondly, it will be sent and sent a strong message to people who are doing this in other resolutions, so don't play it because this report isn't just for us to realize that we still have problems. It's by the number of cases slightly smaller, financially slightly less valuable purchases but still too large to simply say we're going to accept this report and no one at all. Such an approach also gives priority to the requirement to respect this enormously significant law and to other entities in the area. And such an approach would probably come to the conclusion that in five or six years this commission will not need to have 30 people employed but would be enough 15 because the number of complaints will be smaller. We won't have to allocate budget money for so many surveillance systems if we go to a system of individual responsibility for failures to comply with that law. Can the Parliament do that? You got it. If there is political will and if we ask the government and those other responsible to inform us who these people are and what they've done in terms of it, and I say everything where the number of purchases is greater than four, where the cancellation is greater than 50%. We also help the government itself, including ministers to see and register the problem itself, to see for themselves which sectors, which services, which are individuals and where they are most troubled. Otherwise, next year the state commission will come with a report, just please take this page 18 and 19 out of the report, save until next year and compare who will then be on the list. Take 2005 compare the 2005 census. Throw out the ones that aren't there. You'll see what list you'll have left.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3946	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3947	Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Commission. This report is the result of the proceedings under which complaints have been made and it speaks only for itself. It's a series of data we have in front of us. I support him mostly. I believe he's part of the progress we have in implementing the Public Procurement Act. And I don't want that much on the commission's work. More in principle about some of the problems of this old law. Because the commission's work could have been better. There are still some questionable and very questionable things. But I said I wouldn't talk about it. Because maybe for the first time since I've been here in the Parliament as a recruit, I agree with my colleague Cain. The issue of public procurement known to us all is clearly regulated by law. But the truth of this law had many shortcomings, and this is also why it was clearly changed, or harmonised, and often it was a topic of reluctance even among those who hold themselves to scientists in the area. I am primarily referring to parties in the process, because if they had the same interpretation, we probably wouldn't have what we have in these complaints. That's clear. At least beyond that, I share my opinion with those that the general public and, in part, even the expert may not have been so informed or not available. The public perception of public procurement procedures such as colleagues and colleagues has already been possible positive or negative. Just for these reasons I mentioned earlier. So, different interpretations that we had, and also because of the indetermination of the law itself. Clearly and therefore, the resistances also came out, so the public was either positive or negative about it therefore perceived. However, it is often connected in public with corruption. Indeed, we all agree that the fight against this evil was not possible without the development of a public procurement system through much more quality, more expressive regulations, then supervision and control of procedures. These are things without which we can't actually talk about some quality shifts. Perhaps this new law as much as I could read about public procurement carried out that qualitative shift, even with it, we have some indeterminateness, even the opposites of interpretation. Then it calls for what was started with different institutions, which is education. Education is unusually important, and in this respect I believe that we need to take another step and then less will come to some disagreements and different interpretations that clearly arise from everything. It is certain that, at that time, the reports of all three relevant institutions of the Public Procurement Office will certainly be more favourable and accessible to us at all times. In my opinion, in this law, which has been the biggest problem so far, I'm speaking as a man who comes from a local self-government unit. So, I've been there a long time and these problems are m and it's mostly known in the public procurement process that refers to what's below the value required by the public tender. So, you're thinking about up to 200,000 kunas, which is that the law is unsettled and unskilled by me was and the problem would be in law and regulation because it could have been about dividing procurement into smaller items, etc. So it made it easier for us as the leaders of the unit of local self-government because we could clearly give it to entrepreneurs or therefore to the companies that are in our place. So that's what's positive. But the negative effect came after that. I think you understand what I mean. I'm thinking about the loose controls, the internal audit and this and the ones that call us then why we're doing it, and at that point, it was clear to us because we're working in the interest of saying the place itself. However, the law here was absolutely unspeakable to me. It also refers to amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act that allowed for the conclusion of the contract by direct contract without the publication of the call for competition and here we are let's say in some position we were positive. They're in the larger environments, so they're positive for one. However, in the smaller environments that I come from, it was a problem because you couldn't, say, find five of those who would call you and then you would get one or no offers. Then at the end of the second tour, you would have to go clearly to the contract directly, and then it produced negative ones again whether the repercusion was from various audit controls etc. etc. So that's what colleagues who work in local self-government units know very well. However, what I hold in any case with my opinion I hope for all others, and that is that without one comprehensive supervision of all the elements we cannot speak clearly about that we can talk about shifts because if this is not done, there will continue to be violations of the rules. However, what makes me happy as an official in the local self-government unit is that in this report I did not quite notice a lot of complaints about public procurement procedures by local self-government units. So, specifically the municipalities, cities, etc. It's a very small percentage, and it's still a sign of this report right here. Which means that the educations that were done at the levels from the head to the deputy mayors and mayors and the service have given some of their results in all of this, and I think they are very positive. What I would really like to point out here one more time and invite all those who can contribute to this is to hold as many seminars as possible, as much counseling as possible. Education will help make as few mistakes as possible in this public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3948	Thank you. Replica Mr Krešimir Qosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3949	Thank you very much. Here I fully agree with the distinguished representative who said seminars, education, education is very important, learning is very important, information is very important but unfortunately some are slow learning. Some repeat the same mistakes and then the question is, what can help them? It's an extra education. Therefore, it is part of irresponsible people to improve the quality of public procurement, to improve public perception, in order to increase the competitiveness of our businesses is definitely no place for some in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3950	Thank you. Mr. Tomljanović. Same replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to rephrase to an honorary colleague in the part where he referred to education in relation to the units of local self-government, especially the small units of local self-government that have to apply these regulations and now a new regulation, and where really this system of education and information, so people in the best faith want to apply these new regulations, in fact, in a great fear of not wanting to be informed, they want to get the right information, they want to actually implement this new law or public procurement in the right way. The replica in this sense is that in this segment there may be an absolute need to develop a proper way of education especially in those units of local self-government where even new administrative departments have been formed that deal exclusively with public procurement, because these young people who apply these laws, and here are the Assembly MPs who call us daily no help, help us in this, give us advice to carry out this public procurement process without making a mistake. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3952	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Goran Matušić, president of the State Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3953	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. It was a pleasure to be President of the State Commission today and to hear above all your comments, suggestions and praises. I will commend and give my support to the members, so to the entire team of the state commission, because these are the people who have built an institution from zero to what they consider to be a leader in the region today in the European Union. Although all I want to do is replicate on some of them for a debate. Although the number has been reduced, a slight drop in the number of cases remains a high value of 5.5 billion. I'm saying, although I've had a debate from the esteemed representative Caine, I've seen more as his appeal than his status, and less of the objection to the number of employees in the state commission. The state commission is now taking over very likely jurisdiction in concession disputes and private public partnership. Therefore, we will likely have to talk about the increase, not likely but quite certain. Your suggestions and requests, which are not only received in the commission for this report, but also some of you have been interested in the state of your counties, help us to develop and improve the system of this monitoring. They asked some fellow MPs what it's like in my county, so there's a need to maybe process the county's statistical report, process something specific. So you're also invited by your inquiry to develop this tracking system. But once again, the system of monitoring the occurrence must also be bound by the overall procurement process, so I am talking about the procurement process itself, the appeal procedure and again that audit section involving the execution of the contract and the conclusion and execution of the contract. I thank you once again for your comments, suggestions and praises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3954	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. A report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2006. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals from the working bodies, I am voting on the following vote: "The report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2006 is accepted. A year.". Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 129 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3957	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. I would like to point out in the introduction that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community accepts the relevant report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority, and the constitutional and legal basis of the adoption itself is naturally found in provision 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Article 3. The Act on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the regulations. It should also be pointed out that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not only explicitly allow but also elaborate on the scope and legal regime of the adoption of regulations on the basis of legal authority, i.e. the development of constitutional law institutes of the legislative delegation. Of course, on a time of year and that it is questions from the Croatian Parliament's section, other than issues related to the development of the constitution of established human rights, fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, the establishment of a detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia brings a two-thirds majority or most of the votes of all representatives of the so-called Republic of Croatia. organic laws. Further to the specific situation, the following regulations are concerned. Therefore, the Regulation supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on State Support for Education and Education and the Regulation amending the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, which was adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 18 December 2007. As a regulation in the material sense of this Regulation on the basis of legal authority, they cannot, of course, act retroactively backwards and, of course, cease to be valid throughout the year from the date of the receipt of the power. In line with all the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club suggests that this report be adopted in a presented form.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3958	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this agenda point. And Mr. Vladimir Ivkovic. He's also gone, and he's losing his right to debate on this agenda point. Would you like some? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. The decision will be made when the conditions are met. Report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals made by the working bodies, I conclude: "The report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is accepted on the basis of legal authority.". Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. With 80 votes to 49 against, this conclusion was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3961	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It's kind of hard to talk like this in an empty, almost empty, at least as far as this side of the assembly is concerned, but since we're talking about it, we're talking about each other, then there's no reason why we shouldn't say anything. In fact, the media commission has been extremely exposed, often and abused, and from all this noise we have actually received in a report of just a few cases that have been described in such a very simplified way, and on this side you might be pleased. So we could say there's almost no conflict of interest. However, if we look at the cases a little bit, then we'll see that cases and major violations of the law, so a great conflict of interest and some petty things are almost put in place, are almost evened out which I don't think is right. We've had our own time and investigative committees. These investigative committees I think worked well, that a number of conclusions have been made, but unfortunately the consequences are still not seen, because here's the state's attorney's proposal to continue processing these cases, here's simply two and a half years of keeping it safe. So maybe a little word two about the law. We think that the law should be amended and that a whole law should be made, that it should be specified, and not that there is nothing where the law does not say anything, then the commission brings its own opinion that some of these people accept, some of them dispute, and I think there is this topic that might be discussed. So maybe a little more about the goals. The target is anyway. It says the expansion of the round of elected officials who fall under measures to prevent conflicts of interest. And now I'm also interested, probably in that goal of whether the commission, unfortunately no one from the commission, thinks that really all officials, and that means, and here's how much I see here is being debated about the members of the heads of all municipalities and cities. If we look that it's almost over I don't know how many cities, municipalities, now even if we add it or if we multiply it by the number of members of the headship, I think we're going to get a bunch of people we're going to, the commission is going to be buried, and in fact a little bit of that is going to be said. There were cases by the newspaper that they were relatives, one was I don't know in the headship, the other, the other was in the county, so here's a cousin of cousins and the mayor got some work in that municipality. Media again all over the page, and actually people laugh more at it than they benefit from. So there we should still be narrowing down, I'm not exactly up for that kind of expansion, but just narrowing it down or at least staying on this which is now a round of elected officials. Then, clearly judicial, do judicial officials also go under the terms of officials. We note that disfellowshipping the university's vice-presidents from the commission's jurisdiction here, which is the same thing would be discussed, to clarify the conflict of interest, because in this conflict of interest we have so many different things that we really need to define what is a conflict of interest. I'm talking about supervisory committees, I'm talking about stakes in companies, and that's exactly what's interesting. Whether we follow European laws or not, it's really hard to say, but the fact is that if the official owns one, two, three, five, seven firms and until he becomes an example. The minister we had in one of the previous governments, and he simply transferred all his rights to a law firm, what does that mean? That he doesn't care about his firms anymore, doesn't set them up? I think that's where you should either do it so you can't become an official or you can't do business at all, no matter what they do on the lawyer, be at your neighbor, godfather, friend, cousin. That I can't deal with the state if the same minister decides on the jobs that are, which are clearly linked to his companies. So we watched it, we heard it a little corny, we heard it already. Unfortunately, the effect was nothing, which is not on the honor of the state's attorney's office. Here, certain cases of receiving gifts are defined by law, I don't think there are any special things. The complaint probably has, complaints would probably be much more, most likely there would be anonymous complaints. I don't know, I'm sorry to say, there are no commissions, so I don't know how they acted. But I think if we carefully select members of the commission, if we define the law, then we will be able to answer the media in a clear and loud way about who they are, as soon as they are engaged. And I think our rating has fallen for all sorts of reasons. That we should still protect the ratings, because actually the people who chose us still believe in us, they certainly believe in us no matter how much the media has worked against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3962	Thank you very much. It's final. And there is an individual debate, the first representative of Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. She's gone, so she's losing her right to debate on this agenda point. Then, Mr. Representative, Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3963	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Commission's report on the conflict of interest, the second in a row of so far ahead, I think that it strongly testifies to the efforts and efforts of a new body, therefore, and the people who make it, to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, i.e. the law on the basis of which the commission is established, the Commission whose report is in front of this House is one of the factors in the fight against corruption, or one of the holders of certain obligations in the implementation of the 2006-2008 National Corruption Prevention Programme. It is difficult and wrong to divide the holders of measures into important or less important in the National Anti-Corruption Programme, because it is only as a harmonised ensemble under the supervision of the national co-ordinator of the Justice Minister, the Supreme Court, the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports, the Ministry of Health, the Economy, the Croatian Privatisation Fund, the Central Office for E-Croatian, the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, the Office for Public Procurement, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and the Office for Associations of Government can represent an effective and effective anti-corruption core. Corruption is undoubtedly a fateful issue of Croatia's arrangement and not only primarily. In order to be on the Transparency International scale in a more favourable place, nor in the European Commission's opinion on the EU's bid to remove one dark spot, but as it explicitly stands in the national programme, because the political, economic and general social development of Croatia depends among other things on the ability and resistance to the risks of corruption. Although the Commission's work is part-rounded with a specific and relatively narrow aspect of possible corrupt creation, it is not less important or less crucial to create a total social atmosphere... It refers to public officials, therefore, to social representatives with public authority and powers which are already suspected of placing their private interests above the public, and to their public authority and authority of the situation of abuse for personal benefit, calls into question credibility and lays down the total authority of the state and the institution of the state which, at the very end of the conflict, raises the level of dissatisfaction and insecurity of citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The legal basis for the commission's work is the general provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties that define and introduce into the ethical legal concept of the Republic of Croatia a new concept, conflict of interest. For this concept, there is no rich archive of precedent or traditional social practice that would facilitate the Commission's comparison of cases, more precise detection and more appropriate possible sanctioning in the current procedures. That is why their work is really pioneering, as the report itself stated. I think their report can be accepted as evidence that Croatia is making a decisive and excellent progress in all segments of this complex concept, with a note that is a paraphras from the National Corruption Prevention Programme. The continuity of this activity is as important as its intensity, and therefore should continue in the next meeting of the commission, because the members of the committee together with the president stopped actually, unlike the external members, having their active status, because their status ended with the previous assembly so we must re-elected them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3964	Thank you. Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this agenda point. Mr. Vladimir Ivkovic. He's gone. He's also losing his right to debate. Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3965	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs! The Commission's annual report presented the cases of officials in which decision-making procedures on conflict of interest with the fundamental objective of highlighting the problem with which the commission was met, but also the need for regulations to regulate the prevention of conflicts of interest to change or supplement. The report shall contain the discrepancies of individual committee decisions in the decision-making procedures on the conflict of interest of officials and a summary of the reasons for decisions with the basic facts on which individual decisions are based. In addition to the highlighted problem that a virtual data collection has not yet been established in such a way that the data required to be published by the Commission in accordance with the law and regulation are made available to the public while automatically updating all the data entered, as well as the problem of the status of the service carrying out expert tasks for the commission and its staff indemnity with regard to the number of officials and the number of cases, with the need to ensure greater independence of the commission as a fundamental diameter, the report constantly highlights the need for amendments and addition of the existing law. Certainly, the experience of the commission and the highlighted observations and proposals in the report can be very good at newing the law in order to regulate in a better and more quality manner the observed problem in practice, which is why I support this report to decide on a conflict of interest for 2006 and 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3966	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Annual report by the Commission on the conflict of interest for 2006 and 2007. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest for 2006 and 2007. A year.". Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 129 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3969	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Well, here is the report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Management Programme for 2006 to 2007. I would also like to point out that on the basis of Article 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 43 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption during the 2006-2008 period, the Croatian Parliament made a decision on the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. According to that decision, the National Council consists of representatives, employers' representatives, union representatives, representatives of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption, representatives of the academic community, experts and media representatives, and only the National Council had specific following powers. Therefore, it monitors and monitors the implementation of the national anti-corruption programme, then systematically monitors the occurrences of corruption that are being submitted to its request by the authorities responsible for the implementation of the National Anti-corruption Programme, analyses the reports of the competent authorities on the implementation of the National Programme and action plans to combat corruption, and assesses the ways and results of the implementation. It proposes measures to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the National Programme and also encourages and directs the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament, state and other bodies and other factors in charge of the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. And of course, and this is now an obligation, to submit an annual report to the Croatian Parliament on its work. In assessing the work of the HDZ Council, it considers it necessary to draw attention to its limited competence as set out in the National Programme. In order to monitor the implementation of this programme, the Council proposes measures for its implementation and that it will not carry out the tasks of the Government's authorities and institutions, will not act operationally and will not assess the ways and results of the implementation of this national programme. These restrictions are also being warned in the report itself. According to the report, the National Council acted naturally at the sessions. A total of ten sessions were held during the period covered by this report. In the first year of work, the National Council considered it a priority to request and discuss the reports of those bodies responsible for the implementation of the programme as holders of certain tasks in the national action programme. In doing so, an agreement was reached with Anti-Corruption Programme Coordinator of the Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ms. Ana Lovrin, on the order of the search for these reports. It should also point out that the minister encouraged the holders of the duties to submit reports requested and actively participated in all meetings of the National Council when these reports were discussed. At the 1st session of the National Council on 6 December 2006, it submitted its first report entitled "The Ways and Results of the Implementation of the 2006-2008 National Corruption Prevention Programme" in which it informed and detailed how plans were drawn up that represent the actions of each carrier in the fight against corruption. The action plans shall identify the persons responsible for the implementation of each individual measure. As holders of measures under the national programme are designated Supreme Court, State Attorney's Office, USKOK, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Croatian Fund for Privatisation, Central State Office for E Croatia, Commission for Decision on the Conflict of Interest, Public Procurement Office, State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and Office for Associations of the Government of Croatia. On the basis of the reports considered, it should be pointed out that significant efforts have been made over the past period to achieve the objectives and tasks set out in the National Anti-corruption Programme from all holders of the anti-corruption programme’s tasks but that, in particular in the general perception of the public, the results of this action are still insufficiently visible. The Croatian Democratic Community's club agrees with the Council's view that, despite its relatively limited competence in direct cooperation with the Government's anti-corruption coordinator, more direct communication of tasks under the national programme should be established in order to monitor the implementation of this programme more effectively and to propose concrete measures for its implementation. It is therefore necessary to appoint new members of the council from the ranks of MPs and to amend or leave the same or the same external members but also to meet the proposed requirements for professional support. Name the Secretary of the Council, i.e. the necessary professional service. This would allow, among other relevant factors, the National Council to also carry out its decision on its establishment and to strengthen the supervision of the authorities responsible for the implementation of the national anti-corruption programme and to carry out the duty to consider the proposals for complaints, views and opinions concerning the occurrence of corruption by legal and natural persons and to refer them to the competent authorities. Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, it is absolutely necessary to state this, i.e. to support the position which is, among other things, reflected in the opinions given on this report and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in order to ensure, for the needs of the National Council, administrative and professional support for quality and professional analysis and work between meetings of the National Council, continued communication with the Obligor and tasks of the National Corruption Management Programme for 2006, 2008 as well as with other entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3970	Thank you. HNS Club Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3971	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Report October 2006, October 2007 By following and reading this report, I have actually come to an understanding that such things often escape us to actually more than half a year of such bodies as this National Council, and that Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and everywhere where parliamentary representatives are practically not working. Because from the moment of Parliament's disbandment, and because of the election schedule and the election of new members from the ranks of parliamentary deputies, more than six months have passed, and in this case, the anti-corruption authorities are practically not working. The very fact that this commission decided to conclude its report with October 2007 says that they then declared themselves that from October onwards it would not work, it would not work. To think about it, and in one term because practically it remains almost three years then, only three years of actual coverage, and that hole that appears to us would have to find a solution to how to overcome that and in the future we don't have a situation that more than half a year of parliamentary bodies or bodies that in the name of the Parliament control something, control or conduct are not out of rebellion. The Council points out that the powers given by the Parliament by the adoption of the national programme were very narrow and they were not allowed, could or would not. And that's good. But if they warn us that such powers of that national body were a limiting moment to consider whether to extend their powers. I am not satisfied until the end of the finding in Chapter VIII that quotes have been made: “In the past period significant efforts have been made to achieve the objectives and tasks of the national anti-corruption programme from all holders of the programme’s tasks. But particularly in the general perception of the public, there is still insufficient visibility of the results of this action. So this would mean that a lot has been done, but the public doesn't see it, doesn't know or doesn't believe what it's done. We often use such claims without wondering why. Media representatives, academic community experts, employers, trade unions and NGOs are also part of the council. Is it possible that such a wide range of membership was not enough to convince the public that a lot was really done. And perhaps the perception of the public would indeed be different if the National Council had made the following in its report. In its fourth, fifth opinion, the state authorities' authorities discussed reports on the implementation of anti-corruption measures by the council. State Attorney's Office, USKOK, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Justice, Public Procurement Office, State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, Ministry of Economy, Science, Commission for Decision on Conflict of Interest, Supreme Court, Finance, Central State Office, Central State Office for E Croatia. Why is each of these reports not individually assessed in the National Council report? Maybe some of these numbered have really made a lot of significant shifts and some haven't. I underline that this is exactly my question and suggestion that future reports are given according to the revised reports so that we will not be in a situation that is equally critical or that we judge that much has been done but that the public does not see it. I also want to believe that the election of new members of the National Council of Representatives will not wait for the April session and that by selecting a full number of council members we will allow them to now take over that part of the job from April of the month but it will already be seven months after the end of work or the pasivisation of the old National Council. I propose that when we adopt this report we try to reach an agreement to carry out a brief intervention in the national programme itself and extend the powers of the National Council if we really want to have not only the report next year, but also the conclusion that just as much as it has been done is the perception of the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3972	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. She's gone. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this agenda point. Mr. Stazic. Here you go. He's giving up Mr. Nenad Stazic. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3973	Your Honor, Mr. President, dear fellow MPs. Here is the Annual Report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme for the period from 13 October 2006 to 26 October 2007. As you know, at its session on March 31st, the Parliament adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme for a period of two years, from 2006 to 2008, and the main reason for the adoption of such a programme was that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was aware then and today, the extent of corruption in Croatian society. To that end, this is one of the objectives, one of the reasons for the adoption of the national programme. To this end, the National Council was established to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme, which my colleagues already said who is forming the National Council so that I would not repeat it. The National Council has made one report that we seem to be able to accept, that we should be satisfied with this report, given that the National Council has highlighted what should be extremely important and significant to all of us, and that is that a significant shift has been made in terms of curbing corruption in the Republic of Croatia. We are all aware that for these two years corruption has not been completely eradicated and that we will need more time for this, but the general assessment of this report is that a significant shift has been made and I think that we should all be extremely pleased about it. A particularly significant shift has been made in all areas so that I do not now list both justice and justice, health and social care, etc. and we know ourselves from the public information funds that the cases in the courts have still been reduced, that on the garters especially of our Zagreb that the situation is far better than it has been so far, even though I say still in every segment where corruption appears, we expect a lot of work and a lot of perhaps a lot of time... /The speech room has been turned off and re-enabled./...in the report and I think we should support this report. We also heard a report earlier on the conduct of public procurement surveillance, and here we heard from colleagues that this report was extremely well done, and this is one public procurement system that has always been said to be extremely pronounced. I think that today we can also be satisfied by the fact that he has entered into force and the new Public Procurement Act, as well as what we heard from the report. In the end here I just want to say that with what the National Council pointed out with some problems they still faced in their work, human problems etc. that they are still satisfied with the shift, by moving in the implementation of the programme so that I think that we MPs should be satisfied and support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3974	Thank you. Mr. Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3975	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At its meeting on 13 July 2006 The Croatian Parliament adopted a Decision on a National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption and, on a proposal from the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs on 13 October 2006, it selected the president from the order of opposition representatives, Ruž Tomasic, and ten members of the National Council of Representatives, the academic community, experts and the media, employers, trade unions of NGOs dealing with the problem of corruption. In front of us is the annual report of the first National Council to which the term of office ended with the end of the term of office of the previous Croatian Assembly. The tasks of this body shall be to monitor and monitor the implementation of the national corruption control programme, systematically monitor the occurrences of corruption that are required to be submitted to the Council by the national programme in charge of its implementation, analyse the reports of these competent authorities and assess the ways and results of the implementation, propose measures to increase efficiency, encourage and direct the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament, state and other bodies in charge of the implementation of the national corruption control programme and report to the Parliament on their work once a year. It is also necessary to adopt and consider proposals, complaints, opinions and views of legal and natural persons and to forward them to the executive bodies. However, as it stands in the national programme, the Council will not act operationally because, for the implementation of the measures of the national programme, the Supreme Court, the State Attorney's Office, the USCOK, the Ministry of Justice, etc. all the way to the Croatian Government Association Office. We learn from the report that the National Council has brought in a Rules of Procedure, which is a prerequisite for orderly work, that it held sessions once a month without a quorum problem. Good co-operation and support from the national co-ordinator of Ms. Anna Lovrin's Justice Minister, who actively participated in all the sessions that discussed the reports of the national programme's promoters, and submitted the first report to the National Council entitled "The Ways and Results of the Implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme 2006-2008." in which it has detailed how action plans have been drawn up from each holder and that certain persons are responsible for the implementation of each individual measure under the national programme. In a positive context, the participation of the highest representatives of the operational bodies under the national programme shall also be listed. In the interpretation of its reports, the debate on them, as well as on the adoption of a proposal for measures to improve the implementation of tasks under the national programme to be referred to them by the National Council in accordance with its powers. As regards the examination of the proposal, the complaints, the views and opinions referred to by the National Council to legal and physical persons, the need for a stronger and more numerous logistics which, in my opinion, should be accepted and resolved through the Parliamentary Staff Service is expressed. The General Assessment of the National Council with regard to the objectives and tasks achieved under the National Programme is positive. It is concluded that significant efforts have been made, it is literally cited, that the results are better than what is perceived in the public, and in these significant efforts I see that the adoption of anti-corruption laws, such as the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on the Right to Access to Information, etc., and the Law on the Law on the Right to Access of Information, etc., should be added to the agreement of the Tax Administration and USKOK on Cooperation, the Protocol on the Cooperation of the Police and State Lawyership in the Pre-trial Procedure, and the obligation of the President of All County Courts and the High Court of Commerce of Croatia to report quarterlyly on progress in each individual case, and delivery to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. All thousand 937 judges and 576 state lawyers delivered property cards, which should also be counted for the reasons for this positive assessment. The Court Ethics Code has been adopted, the Court of Justice Information System is being applied, educational seminars are being held, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is acting, internal control bodies have been established at national and local level, concession registers have been established, etc. And that is why I would suggest that we accept this report with a positive assessment of the work of the current council, but also a overall positive assessment of the corruption process that the Republic of Croatia has started and has succeeded in achieving significant results during this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-03-06-0.u3976	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when conditions are made. Annual report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Working Body, I am giving the opinion: "The Annual report on the work of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme for the period 13 October 2006 is being taken into account. October 26, 2007 A year.". Who's to put a conclusion like this? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. In agreement with 129 votes, a proposal for this conclusion was adopted.
