ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19456	I wish everyone a nice and pleasant day. We're moving on with the session. This is the continuation of the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament, with the first point as announced - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on assistance and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 176 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19457	... MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] We have before us a law confirming another agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other countries with which Croatia is seeking to establish best and better cooperation in assistance and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue. In all these agreements that the Republic of Croatia has signed so far, it has proved that this bilateral co-operation is based on agreements that are most efficient, most effective in cooperation, in the mutual cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and other countries in helping each other with accidents and in protecting and saving. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on assistance and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue has regulated the issues of providing mutual assistance in the event of disasters and serious accidents in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties, the conditions of cooperation in the prevention of disasters and cooperation in the areas of mutual information on threatening disasters, the resulting disasters and their consequences, cooperation in the field of education and training on the protection and provision of assistance and exchange of scientific, technical information related to the protection of disasters. The modules and ways in which cooperation will be established are also envisaged to prevent major natural and technological risks, then to protect and rescue persons, goods and the environment threatened by natural disasters or technological disasters, training of safety and rescue carriers, mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents and other forms of mutual cooperation. It also provides for a mixed Commission for Protection and Rescue, which will meet and direct further cooperation if necessary. In the event of a need, it will also directly cooperate in providing mutual assistance to one of the two Contracting Parties. So this is an agreement that provides a single framework for cooperation, but also provides for operational cooperation in case of a specific need. Additional means for the implementation of this law are not necessary, and because it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to establish cooperation with the Republic of France as soon as possible, we propose that this law be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19458	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Not that I can see. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's a club debate first. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19459	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France to assist and cooperate in the field of protection and rescue. We had a similar agreement last week, in fact it was a Memorandum of Security for South East Europe, and then we found that in this area of Southeast Europe, however, the Republic of Croatia is ahead of the organisation and protection of fires, protection of rescue, while this cooperation agreement between an advanced country will certainly have a major shift in protection and rescue in the Republic of Croatia. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France in the field of protection and rescue is the result of a common desire for further promotion, deepening joint cooperation by providing mutual assistance in disasters. In the field of relations between the Republic of Croatia and the French Republic, this Agreement constitutes elements of further improvement and deepening of mutual cooperation. The main objective of the adoption of this law is to properly address the issue of cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters, conditions of cooperation and prevention in disasters and other forms of cooperation in this area. The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on assistance and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue has regulated the issues of mutual assistance in the event of disasters, serious accidents in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties, the conditions of cooperation and the prevention of disasters and cooperation in the field of mutual intelligence and the monitoring of disasters, the resulting disasters and their consequences. And what is most important to us, and I hope that we will consume this part most, which is cooperation in the fields of education, training, protection, rescue and assistance and exchange of scientific and technical information important for the protection of disasters. This law has 21 articles. I'll look back on just a few of what I think is very important. Article 4 discusses predicting the prevention of major natural and technological risks such as the protection and rescue of persons, goods, environments threatened by natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, storms, forest fires or technological disasters, fire or explosions in industrial plants or facilities where more people are gathered, accidents in the transport of dangerous substances in railway, maritime or road transport, mutual assistance in the event of disasters or serious accidents. Article 6 describes the way education at the university, the education of instructors, fire officers in accordance with the budgets. So as much money as we have, we'll be able to educate our people. Article 7 discusses how to assist the diplomatic procedure in its ability to assist, while Article 8 describes the use of the aircraft used for rapid and effective action. Article 10 describes the crossover of the state border as a result of effective intervention, the stay of members of the team in the territory of the applicant, the wearing of uniforms and markings, and the prohibition of possession and carrying of weapons, ammunition or explosives on the territory of another country. Article 11 tells us about the responsibility and obligation of the commander of each team to assist the requested party and the treatment of the medical team and their equipment, and the procedure with substances classified as intoxicating drugs used for medical purposes, and the possibility of control on the spot by the applicant. Article 2 specifies accommodation, the diet of the team for assistance of the requested party during the duration of the task, and the provision of the prayer girl. In Article 13, what is very important after all these disasters when human sacrifices are summed up is certainly also harmful, means compensation for damages caused and expenses. In line with the above mentioned club of the Croatian Democratic Community, this Act on the Cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the French Republic is supported by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19460	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19461	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party supports the text in question of the draft laws and agreements, because they are in line with the defence and protection policy which supports the policy objectives of the Republic of Croatia to achieve security protection cooperation and cooperation with neighbouring countries, countries in the region and beyond. The adoption of this law seeks to clearly formulate the state's determination to improve the area of protection and rescue with the French Republic. The fact is that civil and civil military co-operation has become and becomes an increasingly important factor in improving common assistance among countries in the field of protection and rescue and that future competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia will more than this has been the case so far more significantly participated in the implementation of these tasks. The subject text of an agreement written with an emphasis on humanitarian security and cooperation and without imposing any interest and will of any state, and we consider it a formal legal framework for cooperation between the two countries on which concrete plans and programmes, operational cooperation will be developed and agreed on, and everything else. We hope that the leaders of the competent authorities have found the right balance on activities and international cooperation with activities from the national domain, and that they will have a positive impact on each other in implementing a wide range of activities. In this regard, we would like to point out that regional co-operation with the Regional Co-operation Council with the Central European Initiative and the South-Eastern Europe Council on Civil War Planning in Emergency is being implemented in the field of protection and rescue in the international cooperation plan. Bilateral cooperation is also being carried out in this case with the French Republic. According to our knowledge, the Republic of Croatia has signed an agreement on co-operation with eight states, and negotiations are under way with four more, with Macedonia, the Russian Federation, Serbia and Ukraine. We believe that, in addition to this agreement with the French Republic, similar agreements with neighbouring countries are already signed will contribute greatly to the joint resolution of major disaster and disaster problems. The following hope is also to facilitate the work of our competent institutions with partners from other countries in particular in the area of planning and implementing preventive measures, in the field of mutual reporting on hazards, mutual assistance on education and training, data exchange and documents, cooperation in the development and production of rescue equipment, as well as the promotion of cooperation between humanitarian organisations. Based on the stated club, the Croatian Peasant Party supports the proposed Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, as it contributes to a more successful solution to the problem of accidents and disasters, as well as improving mutual cooperation with the French Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19462	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19463	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Catastrophes were caused by natural disasters or as a consequence of human action do not recognise state borders, and the capacity of affected areas or countries can never be enough to overcome the consequences in a short time. As a result, in the area of disaster protection, all countries attach particular importance to international co-operation aimed at strengthening solidarity, linking existing national capacities and enabling better integration of disaster response systems in the world. The Republic of Croatia is in the process of accessing the Civil Protection Co-operation Mechanism of the European Union, and we expect the process to end in a few months, thus becoming equal in cooperation and protecting against disasters with all EU member states. However, this does not exclude stronger integration and the establishment of cooperation in the protection of disasters with neighbouring countries and other countries under bilateral agreements, which are signed when the two countries express interest in deepening cooperation in this area. So far, the Republic of Croatia has signed such bilateral agreements with seven states. Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, and the process is under way to conclude such agreements with the European Federation and Ukraine. Off-the-book agreements are under way on the start of negotiations with the Republic of Serbia, which would give the Republic of Croatia a co-operation agreement to protect against disasters with all neighbouring countries. Co-operation in the field of protection and rescue with France has been developing for several years, and during this year it has been particularly intensified by a series of agreements signed at the end of 2007, and now its validation is under way. Staff from the protection and rescue system from the Republic of Croatia were given the opportunity to get more detailed knowledge of the system in France, while French experts were on exchange in the Republic of Croatia. During this year's fire season, two fire officers from the Republic of Croatia worked in France for a month, and four French fire officers stayed in Dalmatia for two weeks in Split and Dubrovnik. During the year, in cooperation with the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and the French Embassy, it was organised in Divulje a series of fire departments from the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro to train specialist skills from ruins maintained by French instructors. There have been 50 firefighters from every country through the courses and there is still a final course in France for five fire officers from the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro. Given the already stated benefit of this bilateral agreement, I support the proposed law on certification with full support from the State Protection and Rescue Authority to continue to co-operate with colleagues in the Republic of France. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19464	Thank you. No more reports. A representative of the Government does not consider it necessary to be manifest. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get to this point of condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19465	We'll decide later. Please see the quorum. 91 MPs. Please prepare the key. We're going to the vote. 1. Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on assistance and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue. It was an emergency procedure. First and second reading, P.Z. No. 176. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on assistance and cooperation in the field of protection and rescue. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This bill was adopted by a majority of 95 votes and 4 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19466	We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. - Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2008, Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia Proposal, the Government submitted this report in accordance with the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament at the 16th session of 2005. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19467	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much. This is essentially the second report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union which I have the honour to present and present in the Assembly. The first was related to the second half of last year when we actually talked a lot about the criteria set by the European Commission in the PHARE 2006 programme. In the first half of 2008, the most worked, so significant activities were undertaken to remove these European Union criteria and in that part the system was greatly strengthened. The emphasis was therefore on the establishment of the agency. However, we did not just set up the agency and increase the number of people working in the system of implementing pre-accession aid programmes but went to the bottom of the system itself, so all the ministries and other bodies of the state administration were activated and we sought to maximise capacity at that level in order to prepare projects as high as possible and to make good preparations for the use of more significant and larger funds of structural and cohesion funds when we become a member state. What is particularly highlighted in the report is the very activities undertaken to remove the criteria, from the establishment of the Agency to the strengthening of the control environment mechanisms. It's primarily an internal audit. And in 2008 we activated all internal audits across all ministries with the aim of making a good review of the functioning of these project units by the ministries and other state administration bodies so that the system itself would discover possible weaknesses before any recommendations by the Commission and then strengthen these weaknesses and, in fact, in this way, the system was permanently able to address the shortcomings and strengthen them. With internal audits, therefore, we worked to improve the quality of the documentation control and in this sense an entire department of six people working daily on quality control tasks was established in the agency. What is very important for the long-term sustainability of the entire system is of course the quality of the projects and project documentation that is being done. That is why we have taken measures to strengthen capacity in all other institutions. One of the common issues raised about the system of implementation of pre-accession aid programmes is why most of the projects do not go to the level of units of local and regional regional self-government. The answer to this question is, in fact, the very purpose of the pre-accession aid programmes because they serve, they are primarily designed to prepare institutions at the country level for entry into the European Union and essentially projects when they are approved, and that is, we have passed the project approval process in the CARDS, the PHARE, the IPA projects when they are approved actually go to the Commission-level approval which actually observes whether they are materially related to certain areas of the negotiations, so with certain chapters and whether they are really focused on the preparation of bodies, so the ministries and other bodies of the state administration for entry and functioning in the European Union system. There is, therefore, one small part of the projects which, in these pre-accession programmes, are intended to be used outside the state administration system itself, which is actually taking place through those projects of the grand scheme or calls that are going towards the units of local and regional self-government and non-governmental organisations to propose their projects which are then financed from these grand schemes. The report itself highlights them specifically for each of the programmes, meaning both in the CARDS 2003 programme and in the CARDS 2004 programme. Such programs we had in total seven, so in the CARDS 2003 were three grand schemes and the name itself tells who could be further users of these funds. So in the CARDS 2003, for example, I will just give, let's say, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure implemented a grand scheme of sustainable development in areas of special state concern. The name also says that this was then primarily intended for local and regional self-government units in areas of special state care or, for example, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which implemented the promotion of vocational education schools, so it shows that schools or the Office of the Government of Croatia appear for associations, promotion of human rights democracy, and that they appear as users of non-profit organisations. But indeed the funds that go towards these other users in these pre-accession aid programmes are limited, limited, since most of the funds still apply to institutions in the central tree, therefore, to the ministries and other bodies of the state administration. Of course, the exception is the ISPA programme which is subsequently continued in the European Union funds in the Cohesion Fund, so it is related to regional policy and ISPA uses funds for transport, environmental protection, water and projects towards local and regional (regional) government units. And what is important at this point and for this report pointed out that in the ISPA programme, we have three major programs, three major projects. One is the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway line, the second programme for water and waste water Karlovac and the third Bikarac railway in Sibenik-Knin County. Therefore, out of these three two are already large projects agreed and the third is in the negotiation phase. All projects, therefore, are being implemented, implementation was at first a little slower because institutions had to get used to this new way of working and new knowledge that they needed to master. However, now we can say that the real implementation is really good, it went well, a large part of the funds has been withdrawn, a large part of the appropriations have been agreed, the percentages of the contracts for which the bargaining has expired mean more than 80%, in the CARDS over 90, in the Far-eu 88% so that this huge mechanism of joint work of all institutions has started to work well, the evidence of this is of course also the removal of the criteria that have been set in the Far since 2006. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19468	I thank the government's representative. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, and first it's clubs. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this report on the use of pre-accession programmes to help the European Union, but also strongly supports the government's efforts in all pre-accession funds activities. This report, unlike the previous one, shall contain all relevant information and information on the basis of which an assessment of the level and effectiveness of the use of pre-accession programmes of assistance to the European Union can be made. We particularly consider it important that we are given the data of all agreed projects, paid funds and the list of end-users. The HDZ Club also welcomes the fact that during this short 6-month period, since the latest report, there have been shifts in programme management, resulting in the removal of temporary suspension measures by the European Commission for FAR programmes. We all agree that the ability to withdraw and spend resources from pre-accession funds is a major test for the state administration at all levels, from the central state, through state institutions to local and regional administrations and self-government. Also a major challenge for our economic operators who have not met such a complex procedure, both demanding documentation and what is most important with very strict control and control mechanisms, project implementation and dedicated spending. In addition to the fact that EU funds are spent on strengthening administrative capacity, adjusting, restructuring, helping the economy, co-financing of capital, infrastructure projects. We believe that it is of particular importance and the establishment and accreditation of several supervisory and control bodies. And it's not a one-time job. Let us take just an example of the establishment of accreditation of the paying agency, the central authority and the control and control mechanisms for support in agriculture, today domestic support and tomorrow support from the common European agrarian fund. It's not the first time we've talked about this problem, but it's the fact that through a system of support in agriculture because of the false display of data and incorrect requirements for incentives, it's also because of the limitations of the work of the State's inspection service that millions and millions of kuna are losing. When Slovenia accredited the payment agency in the first year 70% of the support applications, it was recorded as incorrect, and of those 70% of them around 50%, it was a false display of data and fraud. What's the situation with us? We do not know exactly, but these are precisely the facts that state the importance of adopting the European Union standards and establishing new administrative capacities, especially in the area of control, controlling the spending of incentives. When surveillance of spending is carried out, but the credibility of the support requests shall be carried out through satellite recordings of the so-called "supply". The ellipse system is clear that irregularities will come to a minimum and that the state will save money and in a certain way also prevent fraud but also unfair competition. Croatia is now receiving money from pre-accession funds to help. And that is why this time of accession and participation in funds needs to be used to maximise the absorption power of both the state and the economy. Today, when we join the European Union, we can apply as high as possible to as many programmes and as much resources as possible. Because this is aid today, but tomorrow as an equal member of the European Union, and we will, from a part of the funds, from VAT and customs, invest in these funds. And it is clear to us that the priority in this division of the joint cake is to participate as much as possible, to return that money through participation primarily in cohesion and structural funds to Croatia and return them to our economy and infrastructure projects. What is the situation with the use of funds related to this report? In fact, as well as the reports we discussed several months ago, it is read that the Republic of Croatia has been approved and has agreed significant funds for structural reforms and adaptations to the European Union system. So 76 million kuna through the CARDS program, then 78.5 million through PAR for public administration reform and strengthening administrative capacity. Then, 123 million for the implementation of the ISPA programme, and 25 million kuna for SAPARD programmes aimed at infrastructure, infrastructure development and also structural adaptation of agriculture and entrepreneurship in general. So, in total, if we include funds for cross-border cooperation and CARDS projects from 2001 and 2002, when managed by the European Commission, 489 million euros have been allocated so far. The use of pre-accession funds and the level of utilisation of certain funds is also an important indicator of success. So we have for CARDS projects over 95% utilisation, for Far over 87% and ISPA 100% utilisation. This speaks of absorption power because according to European Union standards we discussed, and for the last time in the accession countries, good results are considered to be all that benefits more than 70%. The report shows that there are certain problems with the SAPARD programmes, so from 25 million so far, a little more than a third of what has also affected the need for reallocation of rural infrastructure funds and technical assistance in measures 1 and 2. Therefore, investment in agricultural holdings and improving the processing and marketing of agricultural and fish products. It is expected that what we are allowed to do means to extend the work on these programmes for another year that both these measures 1 and 2 and these new tenders that are being published will somehow contribute to that 70 % of the use here as well. It should be said that the procedure and the competition system for SAPARD or IPA, this new programme, where in the game primarily economic operators and entrepreneurs are particularly important because it also enables them to train as participants in the process, as potential users. So to get used to these complex and complicated procedures, procedures for which large documentation is needed and in which very precise mechanisms are also defined. It is therefore important that during this pre-accession period mechanisms are adopted, the European Union standards are adopted so that today, when we become a member of the European Union, our economic operators can withdraw as much as possible from the European Union's cohesion and structural funds. When it comes to agriculture as a specific economic branch, it should be said that, especially at the time of the 1990s war, through a series of programmes and very modest budgets, we have had certain support, we have shared them but we have not had quality control over the spending of these funds, and very often if we have also found irregularities we could not return these funds to the state budget. Things change around here today. When it comes to European Union funds, it is simply not possible anymore. Money is obtained through strict procedures, through strict surveillance mechanisms and is obtained only after the implementation of the project. We believe that in Croatian agriculture, more and more legal entrepreneurs who know that without adopting different standards from technology to health, veterinary standards and conditions mean that unless they adopt them they will not be competitive. Therefore, these programmes should also make an important contribution to structural reforms and technological recovery of Croatian agriculture, the Croatian processing industry and their adaptation to European Union standards. And finally, I want to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club thinks the government has done a good job. This report shows that from the report, there are shifts. That the system is constantly improving, that problems are removed, that shortcomings are removed. Here we have also seen in this report that shifts have been made in program management. That this resulted in the removal and temporary suspension measures by the European Commission for the PHARE programme. It is therefore necessary to work clearly to improve. We should also be aware of this historic moment and of the time in which we, as a country, join the European Union. This, however, stated that we had to adopt standards much faster and much better than other countries and accredit all of these institutions that serve to withdraw funds and monitor their spending. It is an additional effort but also motivation and therefore we give as a club full support to the Government and to all state bodies to successfully bring this job to an end in order to create best assumptions for today, tomorrow when we join the European Union for the best possible withdrawal of funds from cohesion and structural funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19470	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19471	Good afternoon. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the government. I must first of all say that I am sorry that there is no representative of the Committee on European Integration today and that it would be better to discuss such an important topic that the Committee on European Integration is there. So they're on their way officially and since they were known to be on their way then this point of the agenda, too. A report on pre-accession funds could go through when these people who are the most competent to talk about it would be there. So I'm sorry they're gone because they're the most invited to talk about it. What is true and I am glad that the report is better than the previous report and that our colleagues have also accepted part of our remarks that stood in the previous report, but we are going to ask a few questions here and the quality of the answers to these questions will also depend on our support for the report itself. At first, you said that I do not have to say that administrative capacity has been increased and in this fund we expect also to increase certain results. So I'm going to ask you a question. I am interested and interested in the Club of the SDP as to how far the criterion 1 is fulfilled which speaks of improving the planning system in the decentralised implementation system. We are interested in further how far the criterion 3 speaks of the culture of reporting, irregularities, administrative errors. This is not seen again in this 2008 report. On page 6 of the 2006 PHARE show, it says: "The financial agreement for the national component of the PHARE programme for 2006 was signed on 31 January 2007 and entered into force after ratification on 3 May of the same year. The deadline for the implementation of projects financed by the PHARE programme for 2006 is in line with the addendum to the financing agreement on 30 November 2010. As part of that funding programme, 20 projects worth EUR 61 million of grants have been approved. The deadline for negotiating projects financed through the national component is 30 November 2008. "We are asking a question and we are interested. 20 projects have been approved. How many projects were rejected and with what explanation? Also, as regards the deadline for project negotiation, whether the negotiations will be as late as in 2007 when Croatia also received a negative assessment by the European Commission precisely because of the delay in the negotiations and whether the projects are negotiated as in 2007 before the deadline for the negotiations is up until today. That's what we're interested in. On page 8, which discusses increasing the quality of the tendering and contractual documentation submitted to the delegation for the previous ex ante control, says: “The quality of the documentation sent by the agency to the delegation is better than the documentation sent in 2007. What does that mean, better? Whether the quality is met or not by the European Commission. What does that mean better? It says, the percentage of reluctances go beyond the standard, but when the analysis is essentially about more harmless comments. Nothing has been done to reduce the percentage of refusals of projects that are running. This was the measure of two European Commissions in the 2007 report. As far as that criterion is concerned, they'd like to hear it. Does this mean that projects are being refused for harmless matters? Does this mean that projects really refuse to do harmless things? What does the European Commission's review of the rejected projects for example for PHARE 2006 say? That's what you need to see. On page 1 below, ISPA provides financial resources for infrastructure investments in the field of transport and environmental protection. What has been done to make better use of ISPA via IPA? The use was extremely low only 0.49%, less than half. What did he do? On page 1 of the SAPARD programme, whether the shortcomings in the control of the implementation of the funds found by the European Commission audit, such as “Foot Royal” d.o.o. who was getting used equipment. We're interested in that, too. We are interested in how often there are meetings of the government, this is the most important debate on monitoring reports on the implementation of the EU programme. The European Commission says that in 2007, and it states that meetings on the subject must be held twice a month, and we do not see it from the report. Does the government really discuss this twice a month? The European Commission says there is a need to debate. That's what we'd like to hear. I'm not sure whether the government discusses it twice a month. Review of the European Commission's requested and obtained funds and payments made for 2008. Now, speaking of which, when it comes to that examination of the word, we need to compare that review to the year 2007, because this data we have here is approximate. What about reviewing the unnegated projects by the programs? We're interested in that, too. We want to hear the answer to that question. On page 7, the suspension of the temporary termination of the agreement in the PHARE 2006 programme. 20 projects worth 61m euros and the deblocking of 5m euros from IPA 2008. Now, it says 61m euros, and the 2007 report says the total amount of funds allocated is 62879m euros. So we're interested in the difference what it is, is it some kind of mistake? Page 13. The Republic of Croatia is intended for 24.7m euros under the SAPARD programme. The 2007 report states that the total amount of funds allocated is 25m euros. Is that another mistake? We are interested, now perhaps the most important requirement of the European Commission in 2007 was to develop a clear strategy for the retention of personnel working on EU projects. Is the strategy adopted? What measures are foreseen through the strategy? Has this strategy been adopted and what measures are foreseen through it? I'm not sure. The European Commission's request in 2007 was to appoint persons who manage irregularities. We are interested in whether these persons are appointed and how they are managed in irregularities in the process. I have brought here today before you this House of Highs a dozen questions about what we are interested in, and irregularities, about the inconsistencies of certain data and we expect an answer to that question. Depending on the quality of the response will also depend on our support for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19472	On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19473	Dear Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Here, at one point, if I did well, you wrote it down by the secretary of state, Mrs. Maletic wondered why the money did not go to the local self-government but is being managed through the budget, or centralized through state bodies. Well, clearly, the answer is at least simple here. In order for the government to control the distribution of money and indirectly one, another additional control over the units of local self-government, not only to form institutions of which some see it needs to be disbanded first to then professionalise themselves. I mean here specifically the MUP, but about it tomorrow. Second. The European Commission has adopted a 4 billion 470m-euro strategic financial assistance plan for candidate countries and potential candidates for membership, with a 451.4m-euro contribution to Croatia under the programme. The plan is related from 2008 to 2010. In particular, for Croatia, the pre-accession strategy for assistance relates to institutional development, cross-border co-operation and country preparation for participation in cohesion policies for rural development in the European Union. Otherwise, just to point out that since 2003, when Croatia started withdrawing money to this day, we have asked if I am not mistaken, if this information is correct here, 132 million euros, and we have been told 94 million 893 million euros. It is further said that the difference between the requested and the available funds is due to the internal procedure of the European Commission for the approval of applications required 3 to 4 months before payment of the national fund. Apart from Croatia, this strategy that I spoke about earlier or mentioned earlier is clearly related to Turkey, Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia, Montenegro, Serbia and Kosovo. Financial assistance in the future will be expressed through this IPA programme. For this period, as I said in 2008 to 2010 451.4m euros were intended for Croatia, for Macedonia 244.3m euros, for Turkey a billion 758m euros, for Albania 245m euros, for Bosnia and Herzegovina 269m euros, for Montenegro 99m euros, for Serbia 584m euros, and for Kosovo 359m euros. Understandably, the 451.4m-euro that goes towards Croatia is somewhere worth about 3 billion kuna. It is clear that he is looking forward to it, however, to how much money it is. Let us not fool ourselves, I think that the future development of the Republic of Croatia will depend exclusively on the financial capacities of our citizens, entrepreneurs, or the state. The external debt of Croatia today is about 36 billion euros or about 50 billion dollars, by 4 months Croatia should only return some 800 million euros from the budget, by the end of the year only from a budget of around 2 billion euros, and if we add the economy and banks to it, we should probably return maybe 6, maybe 7, and maybe several billion euros this year. In one word, during this period of 2008 to 2010, which is covered by this strategy of our economy, the bank, the state on the basis of external debt will need to pay at least 20 billion euros, and on the other hand we are withdrawing an atom of sum, even if it is non-refundable of 451.4 million euros. For us, it is understandable that 451m euros are also huge money, but as I said only the development of this country will have to be based on the opportunities of our economy, our citizens and our state budget. What I personally think that if we want to be effective, we will have to help our export economy of the Republic of Croatia, this is no longer the case. Why don't we all sink under the burden of this external debt. That is exactly what a consensus is needed because I claim responsibility for the opportunities in this country is not only on the government but also on local self-government, including the opposition, on the media which are generally against everything, on NGOs, etc., etc. What should also be mentioned that we can't keep happening that, at least in public, such an impression is created absolutely against everything, and foreign investment, whether it's about investing in hotels, in some production facilities, whether it's, I know, building a Helling Terminal, the Adrian Society, some repeater, and so on. We've lost the dare to say 6.7 years in barren bickering, politicizing and now gentlemen in crisis in that recession when economic growth in one Germany for the next year will be only 0.2%, in France or so, in Italy maybe 0%, so all of this is now coming toll. The recovery will not come soon, we will clearly demand higher salaries, lower taxes, higher pensions, better social rights, more jobs, and it simply will not come from itself. There will come a time when the job will be the biggest capital in this country again and there will be no more question of working on Sundays or on the 4th shift, the only question that will be put before people is whether or not there is no work. And if he's not there, then we're pissed at him because there's gonna be more crime and more drugs and more murder and I know what not, violence and so forth. So, for the first six months of this year, if I'm not mistaken, we're pulling 208 million 289 thousand 713 kuna and 48 limes. However, here I note that regionally it is not the happiest distribution, that there is a whole series of counties, for example the Primorje-goranska which, on the basis of these 208 million kunas for the first 6 months has not received a single kuna, in Istria seems to have received only one investment, so to speak the affirmative opinion, it is the construction of fruit and vegetable processing facilities, in fact the truffle, Zigante Tartuffi, it has been granted an amount of 11 million and 90 thousand 372 kuna, the remaining funds in this report I did not notice that on this basis no kuna went towards the County of Istria. All in all, there's no reason not to accept this report. It's still one set of financial data. The key is simply that a total of €132 million were requested by the European Commission by 30 June 2008 and we were given 94 million 893 thousand euros. 93 million and so many euros. Otherwise, it is interesting that this report bearing the title on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2008 corresponds to the Slovenian Presidency. This did not clearly affect the withdrawal of funds. It has affected some other Croatia, as I would say, the possibility of closing certain chapters. However, just one sentence to say, about 7 days ago, we had the opportunity to read again that Rupel had slammed the door again to Croatia and only witnessed it, and noting that the new prime minister in Slovenia was proposing it or that he had at least proposed it as ambassador to Vienna. Whether or not this will happen, I don't know, that Slovenia will lead a policy of continuity across Croatia. Unfortunately, a continuity that won't make much of a contribution to the establishment, I would say correct of those neighbourly relations. All in all, the IDS club will vote clearly for this report. I said it was just a set of these financial data, but I mean what's the problem with this report, which these funds are still being allocated, I'm going to say according to certain party assumptions. So where HDZ is in power there or according to these environments, more funds are also going from the European Union, not just the budget, but where some other political options are, and the environments are usually in a way and when the distribution of European funds has been neglected. I think that should change in due course. All in all, here's so much, nothing more, and I think that this spirit of dividing these funds is what as well as the budget, many in this assembly insults.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19474	Thank you. We first have three corrections to the incorrect assumption. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19475	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it is necessary to correct one as an eye non-essential finding, however very important in essence, and that is a colleague Cain said we are always against all the investment outside. It's one, it's either you get lost or I don't know how. So we are always against all the investment outside, here you mentioned the hotels "Adria Society" etc. So it's not true, so it's not me who would say "abstained" by some investment from outside because we're taking care of national interest, environmental protection, etc. You'll agree that not everyone's investment on the outside, so it's in the interest of the country they're investing in. Take a look at the shores of some beautiful states, countries that are concreteized, so hotels, privatized beaches, etc. Therefore, in this context, we must be very careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19476	Thank you. The second is the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19477	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Caine, who found that the European funds are being allocated to us by party key, therefore also in terms of units of local self-government and other users. It's absolutely not true, so it's just not possible. Since we have all the bodies of the institution dealing with the allocation and supervision of these funds accredited not only by domestic accreditation but also by the European Commission and also by the fact that infrastructure projects are based on priorities that public systems have as part of their development strategy, and the other thing is that the economic operators that are absolutely privately owned are also the condition that they can run at all cannot simply go according to any party key but are exclusively competitors in public competitions and must fill out extremely demanding documentation there, so there is no way that any key works.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19478	And the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19479	Thank you. The incorrect allegation was made by counterpart Cain when he said the funds go to local self-government units where HDZ is in power. It is incorrect, the funds go through public tenders according to precisely defined strict criteria laid down by the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19480	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, distinguished Ivana Maletic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19481	Thank you very much. Here I'll try to answer the questions asked, I hope I've managed to write them all down, if I'm not you can remind me of someone else. Therefore, as regards the criteria set out in the PHARE 2006 programme, the first criterion relating to planning and planning documents is, in fact, globally speaking, the criteria are satisfied because if they were not satisfied with us, then the suspension that was set up would not have been returned to the 5 million euros blocked in the IPA 2008. As far as the planning process itself is concerned, so we have a special institution, it is the Central State Office for the Management of European Union Funds and for a strategy that deals with planning and programming and they, along with other institutions, are what I said through exposure, working to improve and increase the number of projects proposed for funding. So we are in these measures when we have strengthened the system, not only are we focusing on establishing the agency and strengthening the quality of the documentation control but we have gone to all the ministries and other bodies of the state administration, so with the continuous monthly meetings that we hold with them, with the aim that they will be educated precisely in this good planning and preparation of projects and later quality preparation and project documentation for the negotiation, and afterwards for the implementation of the projects themselves. As far as the system of irregularities is concerned, it's really done a lot. So it's not just about the appointment of persons responsible for irregularities, it's about the whole AFKO system, you finally have a detailed review. Therefore, the AFKO system consists of two levels, consisting of a network of bodies that have to act under the observed irregularities and on the other hand of a network of bodies that are users of the European Union’s funds and which have these persons in charge of irregularities that actually report identified irregularities, and are then resolved and processed at this second level of the system, depending on the type of irregularities it is dealing with. So in this particular case, the fruit of the swarms that you mentioned, in fact, started the procedure, so the case is given to the state's attorney's office and all the necessary steps have been taken. In any case, the observed irregularities are therefore precisely responding and acting according to the rules set and this system is new, so it has already started to function in quality, although the system that we have just set up has been one of the criteria, for example in Chapter 32, means financial supervision and is related to the implementation of these pre-accession programmes and has therefore also appeared as a criterion in the PHARE programme. The following criterion regarding the refusals and the quality of the documentation, so what is important is that we increased the number of people in the agency and thus allowed the person not to have 50 projects on him, but really some kind of sustainable number of projects that can be managed, a dozen projects, and then we also set up a department of control, quality, documentation. Therefore, the quality of the documentation sent to the delegations of the European Commission has been significantly improved, so there are no objections that really say that now people working on that dossier do not essentially understand the procedures of the European Union, in the preparation of technical documentation. So, there's still some rejections. The number of reluctances has been reduced and the content in these reluctances has been significantly different at all. Therefore, this reduction and the number of reluctances and the content of the different meaning of the refusals also resulted in the removal of these criteria or suspensions that were given. So in that part, of course, more significant improvements have been achieved. We have very detailed statistics by type of documentation in each step that is normally being reviewed and in the next report we will add that statistics so that you can see exactly what type of documentation are which improvements and what actually achieved. As regards the PHARE 2006 programme and the issues related to the rejection of projects. In fact, the PHARE programme in 2006 is at a high level of bargaining, 20 projects are approved for funding. Of course, these 20 projects come from a lot of contracts because one project results in 5, 6, 10 contracts depending on the type of project. The agreement was at that high level, so the negotiation process was in line with the criteria that were set, so by the end of the 4th month this year it was sent to the delegation for approval of full technical documentation related to each project and contract. However, the further negotiation process goes at certain time intervals. That is why it was also clear to the Commission that, in view of this deadline in the 4th month, the negotiation must enter into the 10th and 11th months. So, it was impossible in PHARE in 2006, given the preparation of technical documentation, the total of the 4 months had something agreed in the 7th or 8th month when the whole negotiation process lasted for several months, so 5-6 months. So it takes more time because tenders are being announced and offers are being received, so the selection of the best bidders is then re-published, or the total invitation is being sent for the whole offer from these shortlisted therefore of the best bidders. And it lasts one two months and then it's about an evaluation that depends on the gravity of the project so on choosing from these best ones, which, depending on the gravity of the project, can take three weeks. So these evaluation committees meet at the agency and it really takes a really long time and therefore some simpler projects can be completed in one day, but they tend to last for three weeks. After the evaluation committees met and made the choice of best bids, and this has now happened for a large part of the contract, the documentation goes again to a delegation reviewing those evaluation reports. So he has to agree with them, approve contract proposals, and then contracts can only be signed. So it's a whole procedure that's under way in PHARE 2006 and we hope that by the end of the 11th month, which is also a deadline, we'll have a really good percentage of the deal, as it was in PHARE 2005. So in the IPA, we've done everything we can to make deals a lot, a lot sooner, and that's why we're going to do it because the quality of the entire system is up and that's not only for the Agency or the Ministry of Finance, but it's really actively involved all the bodies. This is also the answer to your question about the government and the debates in the government, so the report goes to the government. Ministers are familiar with the situation in their portfolios and are taking continued measures so that the system is going, in a good way, to process, in a timely manner, and to achieve, or to do so in the IPA in 2007 long before November 2008. As far as these numbers are concerned, so this is what's been observed at the PHARE. In 2006, unlike millions and 800 thousand, I think the euro is actually about community programmes, and we had to point that out. If you look at PHARE in 2005, the exact amount is allocated to membership fees for community programmes. However, here in PHARE 2006 that the same table was not given, it happened that there was essentially no such information and we will correct that in the next report. When it comes to SAPARD, the total alocation is indeed 25 million, but the exact data in the report is because part of the allocation means of 300 thousand actually technical assistance going at the level of the SAPARD agency...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19482	Bring the end. Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19483	So it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19484	Bring the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19485	Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19486	Your time is up. Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The first is the Honorable representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19487	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This today's report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1.1 to 30.6. sees that, according to its approach, it is different and says that discussions on the previous report in 2007 have prompted rapporteurs to make their thoughts more quality and transparent. With the candidate country status of Croatia, three new PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD programmes have opened up from this report. And with the CARDS program that was available and at the time before obtaining candidate status we had to use four pre-accession programs. These programmes provide assistance to the State to implement certain and necessary reforms and adjustments for later membership in the European Union. The recipient of the aid is, from this point on, in principle, a state body and institution. The exception is the SAPARD program intended for private entrepreneurs. I would like to say something about this programme, because when we look at it by means of withdrawing funds, I do not think it has a passing grade, although it is very important for agricultural production which, just by entering the European Union, must be much more self-sufficient and economically cost-effective. Why? That is why if it wants to survive the competition of European production and surpluses that will be focused on our market right now. The Republic of Croatia has made 24.7m euros visible to the Republic of Croatia for the SAPARD programme. It is also evident that 29 programmes have been agreed in the first two competitions. The first competition with five programmes, four of which were completed, two in 2007 and two in the six months of 2008. for these programmes, funds have been withdrawn. In the second competition when 24 programmes were agreed, of which three, one and two were completed in 2007 and two in 2008 they also saw that those funds were withdrawn. However, when we look at these seven programmes financially completed, only one million 792m euros were paid, or 7.25% of the total funds allocated. In the past year, 3.8% of the funds were paid. However, with these other programmes, the normal arrangement of the programme is another thing and there is more funding, but it is also visible that for 12 programmes the request for payment has not yet been delivered at all, and that seven programmes from this second competition are still under review, or are being controlled. The question is, is that enough? I think it's certainly small, because using these programmes and funds should primarily serve us to increase agricultural production and to realize it through the processing into more accumulative products. Just when we look at these indicators then we see that 15 programs are designed to improve the processing of agricultural production, 9 is for livestock and 5 for plant production. Therefore, it is evident from this that these programmes should be completed, that they should withdraw that money, because they will certainly have one meaning in improving this production, especially the workpiece, because we know that this part is also more economically profitable, or we can make more money than on primary production. It is evident that the third tender, which was completed in April 2008, received 23 applications, 17 and six were rejected, means 17 could count on the support of European Union funds. However, I must conclude from all this visible that we will not be able to withdraw all these funds within the scheduled deadlines, and that is why I think it is good and this is going to be realised 10.3m euros, for measures one and two, with measures three and four. It should be here as soon as possible to approach these tenders, it says that there is another competition in preparation and that as soon as possible we take advantage of the possibility of withdrawing these funds through normal quality competitions. But one question to me, why is the use of these funds so little, where are we actually wrong? We heard from the report that there was an increase in the number of people working on this. However, I think there are a number of questions that we've given an answer to or haven't, but according to these data for the SAPAD program the answer would be that they haven't been very well carried out, and that's the question of how qualified we are to meet the very extensive of this documentation. Normal documentation for the SAPARD program is great and how much we are capable and qualified to make that documentation the ones who want to get into it and fill it out. The second question is, who conducts these consultations and educations? Do you know what the percentage of these successes are? We know that there are people who work on that part, train, make these programs. However, what is the percentage of these successes, such as these? Is that all it costs, of course, to pay for it, the one that gets into it. The same question, who's answering those contests? This time we get the real names of companies, companies, individuals who are and programs, which are etc. But the question is, did the employers give you, can they meet all these conditions? Are they so capable of doing it all? And what's the promotion and complete work on all this to get as many competitions as possible? Because of this overall situation in our agricultural production and the accompanying industry, I think this program should be used with over 100%, not in these percentages that I said. And just for a little while, we see in the report that the IPA programme and its inclusion are being intensively done, the signing of the financial agreement is expected by November. What Mrs. Secretary said now is particularly important for this component of rural development, component five. Good organisation, I think, is very important, and if we want to withdraw funds, and I think it's a good thing that you said that ministers are interested in that part, too. I hope Minister of Agriculture Pankretic is also interested in withdrawing those funds. It's obvious that work is enough. We expect in the next report and concrete projects to use these funds in the IPA program. And finally, no matter how far we've worked on the programs of use, all the services they're working on, I think we need to make more of these sleeves so that these tasks we have ahead of us are fully fulfilled and we do what they're there for, that these European Union funds are withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19488	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19489	I replicate that part of my colleague Bodakoš's exposure where you say rightly and warn about the problems arising from the inaction or misaction of the central state. I'd like to say, perhaps, that there is more emphasis on the importance of education, the willingness of the political will of the local community. The town of Sisak is a city that is referred to as a city case because of the huge problems we have in environmental protection, aero pollution, water pollution, and the town of Sisak has not reported in any way in any way to apply to projects that would certainly be within the framework of these programmes, under the IPA could be financed for the town of Sisak. So, I would like to say that the lack of political will, inability and inability to train city administrations, local organisations contribute to the greatest extent, in fact, to the poor use of the opportunities at our disposal. So this is a kind of appeal to the central state as well as to citizens to put their own kind of pressure on their local organisations and communities to make sure that the money that stands, which is intended to benefit citizens in the cities where they behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19490	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19491	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This is the part where I talked about education, or approaching people who enter these programs. I think we see from this report that the central part of the state and a certain part of the work is working, but in certain local environments, often these people who enter the SAPARD program or some other programs are quite left to say "experts" who are willing to write and write programs without being responsible at all whether this programme will pass or not. I think that the central state should also have more control over local self-government in this part of it, i.e. to see how it helps these people who want to enter the SAPARD programme as such on the ground and withdraw certain funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19492	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19493	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the conclusion of this High House from 6.10.2005, we have a Report from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the use of pre-accession European Union funds for the period from 1.1 to 30.6.2008 and we heard from today's presentation and from colleagues that it is much better than the previous one, which is certainly good. The report shall provide an overview of the implementation of the programme with specific reference to the identified means and conditions of implementation of the projects, as well as possible fraud and irregularities in the process of using the funds. The total available European Commission funds at the expense of the national fund during that period amounted to just over 1m euros. They must be far more significant today than in the first six months. I will try to analyze some programs to point to the importance of this issue. The CARDS programme is helping the community restore, develop and stabilise. This is the programme and technical and financial assistance of the European Union adopted at the end of 2000 with the primary objective of supporting the South-Eastern European Member States in active participation in the Stabilisation and Association Process and implementation of the Stabilisation Agreement commitments. He had two components, both national and regional and total alocation for the period 2001 to 2004 totalled 438m euros. The use of funds shall be measured by the percentage of agreed projects, by their implementation and by the payments made in respect of these scheduled deadlines. By the end of 2007, the deadlines for the negotiations had expired and the situation now seems to be this way. The use of CARDS in 2001 and 2002 is over 96% of CARDS, in 2003 97.7%. This high level of exploitation is also the reason for the well-developed projects at regional levels in certain counties because funding and financial management are also transferred to the national level from the European Commission delegation. It is evident that the high percentage of execution is and given the good implementation of the projects is very certain and that the total agreed amount will be paid and that the funds under this programme will be fully used. PHARE programme aimed at preparing future members for the use of the European Union Structural Funds after the accession of the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund, the PHARE is intended to build state institutions and are users of state administration bodies and public enterprises. The PHARE programme from the report we see contains twenty-three projects, which is a national component of 71.5m euros and is agreed with a high 88.3% compared to the approved funds and paid at 44.06%. For the PHARE programme cross-border cooperation between the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia has agreed projects of 2.7m euros, 90.7% and 71.9%. The PHARE Adriatic cross-border cooperation with Italy in a slightly smaller percentage of the contract is also very successful, meaning between 60% and 80%. The nuclear security program is also between 60% and 67%. The PHARE 2006 approved twenty projects worth over 61m euros. The deadline for negotiating this project is by the end of this year and a very large number according to my findings has been reported. Zadar County is the user of two projects under this project, PHARE. One ended in the sixth place called HANS, it is a joint programme of Croatian and Italian partners financed by the European Commission and this combination of INTEREG, CARDS and PHARE. The final report was made at the end of the sixth month. The total project is worth over 108 000 euros and the project results from a set of scientific and statistical data that depicts the health of citizens from the Adriatic region and points to the need to establish an epidemiological observatory in the Adriatic region. The second project is to strengthen the management facilities of protected natural values from slightly less than 200 thousand euros where they are holders of the Zadar and Sibenik-Knin Development Agency and users of the Krka National Park and the Zadar County Nature Management Unit. At the end of 2007, we see from the report that the European Commission has set criteria to improve the quality of the implementation of the PAR programme in which certain problems have been identified, both with the organisation and start of the work of the Central Implementation Unit for projects and financing and with regard to the quality of the documentation and the quality of the work of the implementation system. All criteria have been met, blockage has been lifted, a quality system has been established that allows for both independence and correction and successful use of European funds significantly greater than the amounts mentioned in these funds. ISPA is a programme that provides funds for infrastructure investment in transport and environmental protection and preparation of the Republic of Croatia for the use of the Cohesion Fund. Users are listed in previous exhibitions, the total value of the projects is over 123m euros, 59m from ISPA and the rest from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. It also includes the implementation of technical assistance projects. The deal began somewhat slower, however, the deadline for completion ended in 2009 and the beginning of 2010. And as things stand now will be arranged complete. The SAPARD programme aims at rural development, progress in agriculture and the preparation of candidate countries for the use of funds from the Common Agricultural Policy Fund. The end-users for the SAPARD programme are outside the public sector, except for the measure of three rural infrastructures, where they are users of local self-government units. From this programme, two projects have been agreed to the Zadar County project of Paška sirana and the project Ostrea. Paška Sirana goes, program goes on equipment, program is total value 25 million kuna, 10 million is used from SAPARD funds. Ostrea is a processing, processing of fish, the total project is almost 50 million kuna, 10 million from the SAPARD programme. These projects will certainly make their realisation a more competitive and efficient agricultural sector, create new jobs and improve the quality of life of the population, in rural areas, both in Pag and Benkovec as well as in Stankovci. The IPA programme is a new European Union programme consisting of five components for the Republic of Croatia. During the first 6 months of 2008, intensively worked to meet the accreditation criteria of the prescribed IPA with implementing legislation. For four components, requests for the transfer of management and management powers to the Republic of Croatia are submitted. The projects, we see from the report, are in high preparation. For the component of two cross-border cooperations, whose work I've been involved in myself. The programming has ended with the adoption of eight programmes by the European Commission. I'm going to stay here for a little while because this is a very important part, on projects of cross-border and transnational that are now being financed and standing at the disposal of about 16 million funds, and that combination means CARDS and PAR. It's 137 projects. In this segment, almost 90% of the European Union's agreed funds are projects in the implementation and preparation phase and will be used fully as planned. None of the projects in the FAR CBC line in the time it was suspended, so it hasn't been suspended, which means that this is a good reflection and there's no reason to worry. The importance of these projects, which is huge, still large for cross-border, large numbers of county and local self-government units, is precisely related to the programme. And these projects are also the most useful means within concrete regional cooperation. Through such a large number of projects of the different and strict procedures of the European Union, learning has also made irregularities and this report does not hide them, and more is seen and managed in accordance with the recommendations and standards of the European Union. Irregularities are mostly technical and have no high risk. I certainly support this report and the statements on the use of funds show that both the regional and local self-government is the one that wanted not the one who has similarly developed capacities and has become partner with the Government of the Republic of Croatia in preparing and programming the IPA. [[Intruder: Bring the end!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19494	Thank you very much. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19495	Dear Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry. It is good that every half a year we have a report on the use of pre-accession funds because then we can talk about what is not good enough and point to improvements. Because it would really be extremely bad if we didn't use every, every cent, every euro we could use from pre-accession and especially after that of structural and cohesion funds. So in the first part, I'm going to say something about how it's not good to do and then I'm going to say a few recommendations that I think would be good to consider and introduce as a future improvement system. So, I was fat convinced until recently that ISPA was long gone. Because we've been talking about having IPA for a long time. But then I remained baffled a few months ago when I saw that a contract had just been signed in ISP for Vinkovci-Tovarnik. I thought the railroad was already ready, that it was reconstructed, restored, that trains around Corridor 10 jure. Well, then what especially disappointed me, and I have to say and worry about what's been going on the last few days in Karlovac. So, according to HINA's report, a contract was signed a few days ago to build a wastewater treatment plant, 100,000 equivalents. The total value of the investment, therefore, is somewhere over 14m euros. So what's this about? Somewhere in 2004, the Ministry of Environmental Protection made a public call to local self-government units to nominate projects that have a chance to be realised in real time, after which the ministry would, of course, choose from these nominated projects in this environmental protection component, which I think more than 20 million euros were envisaged to implement, therefore, the project and the one together with the local community. Among other things, some projects have been nominated for an obvious wastewater treatment device, Karlovac. But a project has been nominated called the wastewater treatment device of the town of Koprivnica. To this day, we in Koprivnica did not get an answer why our project did not enter ISPA. But we deeply believed that what was chosen was at least twice as good as what we had in Koprivnica. But what happened? In the meantime, we have opened two public tenders and negotiated the construction of wastewater treatment facilities through the negotiation process. We designed it, built it, and it's been working very efficiently for a year. It's about the same device as the Karlovec. 100 thousand equals where the water in Koprivnica at that time of design was more burdened because we had a Quasac factory which is the worst polluter for waste water treatment. So we had the same amount but less water quality. So there was more to be done. So from the moment someone asked us about ISPA, to this day, we have called a competition, arranged, built, and the device works for a year. We paid it together with Croatian waters because our Croatian waters are a partner in the project about EUR 10 million. So together with design, construction and supervision, and supervision of EUR 10 million. The Carlovite still hasn't even passed the contract appeal deadline, let alone that it was built. 100 thousand equivalents have been agreed to build without the management of the mud. So there is not even a dump to which this mud will be put off, let alone that this mud is taken care of, unlike Koprivnica, where we have introduced new technology, "Nigs", the so-called technology that solves the mud. There's no mud at the end, at the end of the process. It costs EUR 14 million plus another million and a half EUR was spent on technical assistance, consulting services and other things. Now I'm asking what's going on in Karlovac to cost $5 million more than in Koprivnica. What tender procedures were needed to implement that in 5 years, a device was not built in Karlovac? And why, ultimately, the most favourable bidder offered to build the device for EUR 13 million was not selected in Karlovac. It's a "DHV" Dutch bidder who was supposed to have cooperative relations with Astro, with the Crossworker, with Edna from Karlovac and Turbo Techna from Karlovac, but was chosen by Alpina Bau who essentially doesn't have a construction operation in Croatia, but only a company that will, therefore, resell the business. So that's actually engineering companies. So this is a typical example of how political discretion or political criteria have decided which project will be financed from pre-accession funds. How the absolute administrative inability to build this project in real time or real time proved to be real and how this led to therefore having a device that would be 50% more expensive than the identical device in the town of Koprivnica. Instead of already having a device that works well because here experts say the question is, what will be the result of the operation of the device in Karlovac? So is it really going to result in us having 93, 94% purified water as we have in Koprivnica or is it going to be something else, so in, I don't know, two or three years, we're going to see that we need an additional reconstruction of that device, as we have, for example, a case in Varazdin where three times in the last 15 years there's been a reconstruction of wastewater treatment devices. So why didn't when we had a model take the device from Koprivnica and "copy paste" change it to Karlovac? We wouldn't have to pay for the extra design. We could make it for less than EUR 10 million because we paid 10 million here, so probably another time if we built it would be much, much cheaper. And what's most important could be realized. Today, four rivers in Karlovac would be clean. They would not have been drained by still polluted water as today in Drava from Koprivnica drains clean water and the fish have returned back through the Bistra channel that leads the water from the wastewater treatment plant to the Drava River. So it's really been total political discretion, we don't want Koprivnica's political decision, we want Karlovac. But it turned out that the decision was bad because if we had used ISPA to date for the case of Koprivnica and this device is being praised and in the European Union today, I am convinced that in IPA or any subsequent European Union programme, we would have given us even more resources to protect human beings, the environment, since in the next few years we have to invest more than 13 billion kuna in protecting the human environment before we become or we will see how many negotiators will be able to negotiate the length of the delay of the criteria. But, therefore, over two billion euros must be invested in solving environmental problems. And instead of using what's right, we're politically deciding that something's going to be done somewhere else. We're rediscovering hot water. So we're designing some new device with some kind of new weird technology that still needs "God Ask You" to be ready and we don't know what the result will be. So that this will not happen in the future, I propose that no matter what administrative capacity of SAFA and the ministry has already increased further. To increase capacity, administrative capacity units of local self-government and regional, regional for writing projects. To increase the fiscal capacity of units of local, regional, regional self-government for this. To remove any political influence in decision-making because it still has, for example, through the "Bord Corporation" from the PHARE programme in 2005 was that Italy, Croatia could, here I am finishing a sentence, Italy and all of Croatia could be and in 2006 Italy and Dalmatia just because, for example, we and Koprivnice have, we are partners in two projects... 3A [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] with Italian cities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's what will not be enabled. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19496	We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative, Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is the distinguished representative Mršić, in his debate, made a lot of inaccuracies about the town of Karlovac, and I don't think it's appropriate to compare Koprivnica, which has 20 thousand inhabitants and Karlovac, who has 60 thousand inhabitants, has four rivers. I agree that the water treatment project in Karlovac is the largest and largest in the ISPA programme, 36m euros, 20m grants. Indeed, instead of congratulating the local self-government that they had succeeded in obtaining this project, they did not get it through political ties, but they got it on the basis of the real programme and the needs of the city of Karlovac. And especially that you said that the programme is 50% more expensive, or 5 million euros. I'll tell you that the first analysis that was in 2005 was that 13 million 167,000 euros cost, with that, you said there was right not to be sedimentation, degistration, that role was not taken into account. Lastly, and there has been a public tender according to international standards in force in the European Union Therefore, DHV is not for technical reasons, so he said it was a political decision [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end!]] There's no political decision at all. [[/Intruder Capricorn: Thank you. Thank you. Your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19498	Thank you. The second is the correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19499	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In order to talk about something, matter needs to be known, so it is truly amazing that someone is surprised that ISPA is still going on. So the realisation of ISPA projects is until December 31st 2010. Most of the project is the one you talked about about about the railroad by 31 December 2009. It's another thing. It is incorrect that by political criteria projects were obtained. That's completely incorrect. They have not entered these programmes according to political criteria. Only in the contests followed by the European Commission if you want to go over your own. And a third thing. There is no administrative inability of the Republic of Croatia in this respect because Croatia makes maximum use of all programmes. You'll see that at the end of the project. Unfortunately, the long deadlines for project negotiation are great, but this is all in line with the rules set by the European Union before us. Therefore, you must know the procedure to speak of it. And ISPA and all these other programs are still in effect, because their realization is only ongoing, they're just beginning to come true. The project's negotiation lasted until June of this year for ISP.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19500	Thank you. We do, no benching! Your Honor, don't. Come on, no throwing. Replica, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19501	Well, here it is, I thank my colleague Mrjić for introducing us to what they did in the town of Koprivnica and what's good to hear. That's good to hear. There is no question here whether Koprivnica, why Karlovac, not Koprivnica. The problem should be put like this. Why not Carlovec and Koprivnica? That's what I think would be a proper and normal approach. The warnings you've given around Karlovac are good and I don't think we should reveal hot water, but modifying projects and the size of the city itself is not crucial. What I'm worried about is why, I'm saying now pro domo sua, why the most critical city when it comes to pollution, the town of Sisak is not in the circle of those cities that apply to programs and ISPAs, and now they're not in the IPA. So three rivers. A city with enormous problems with three burner rooms. There are huge pollutants that are unique in Croatia except Sisak, except Rijeka no one has a refinery. The huge tanks of JANAF, thermal power plants, aero-contamination, water pollution, soil pollution is a problem that the city of Sisak cannot solve. He can't solve it himself, and in particular he can't solve it with these city administrations that haven't shown enough interest to hire the central state to help with his knowledge to report projects and to ensure funding gradually, systematically, because I know it's impossible to do it at once.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19502	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19503	Well, first of all, fellow Vidovic to you and everyone else, so let me say that the devices are not built according to the number of inhabitants, but according to the so-called. The equivalent to the population and that Koprivnica is 100000 equivalents as well as the carlovac device 100000 equivalents, no matter how many people lived in Koprivnica and how many in Karlovac, because the industry is converted by volume and by load to the equivalent of the population. So, completely identical devices and I said that water pollution in Koprivnica was worse at the time of construction. I agree with you, and I think that when selecting the projects should therefore be which project is more quality and which will be realised faster, because I am convinced that we have chosen Koprivnica, which has been implemented so far in the European Union procedure because we have also agreed to Koprivnica according to FIDIC. Here, according to the PRAG, it was negotiated, and FIDIC was only partly in the PRAG. Therefore, if we had agreed and had today had Koprivnica as an example in the European Union, the European Union would have told us about both Karlovac and Sisak and many other cities in Croatia. Unfortunately, a project was selected for which, at the time it was chosen, it was certain it would not be, it will not be possible to accomplish as well as some other projects. Because ISPA can last until 31.10.2009, but it could be realized long before. Ten, all right, tenth. It could have been realized before. It was only a question of our ability, because I signed several contracts with the European Union unlike those which have not signed a single contract for a European project, and I find it difficult to sign a contract or implement a European project. So, I speak from my own experience. We responded to the competition, we agreed, and when it was before it was decentralised we negotiated, and now that it's decentralised we know what it means to negotiate, we know what it means to negotiate, we know what it means to implement, and we know what it means to report on the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19504	Thank you. Government official Ivana Maletic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19505	Thank you very much. Here I am thanking the esteemed representative Mršić for this issue and precisely comparing two projects that go parallel and are funded from different sources. So, it's definitely not just us who participate in the selection of projects. It is also the European Commission that decides which projects in the Republic of Croatia will be financed, especially when it comes to these pre-accession aid programmes, because it really is their money and they determine which of the projects best fits into the overall policy set at European Union level. In this case, they estimated that the project is more suited to the total projects financed by the European Union have chosen this project. And what's interesting is that the project of Karlovac was therefore prepared and should be prepared not only in procedures, so the European Union according to FIDIC, but every step of the preparation of technical documentation has been controlled by the European Commission and the delegation, and it also takes away in these negotiating steps one part of the time because the delegation must have several months to engage experts who will further assess the quality of the documentation. What exactly does this Commission want to achieve? They want to achieve that, indeed, in the Republic of Croatia, capacities are created which are capable of quality preparation of documentation and are really good at carrying out the tender so that in the event of any complaints and complaints, such tenders are cancelled, so that the process is then re-longed again and requires some additional time. Therefore, all documents are prepared according to the yellow book, so in accordance with FIDIC's rules and as regards the envisaged budget for this project, the contract signed is even below the intended budget. So the funds were budgeted, the total value of the project was determined, and the contract was signed for 359 thousand euros below the estimated cost of the budget. And that's what's also important to achieve certain savings in these public procurement processes, the track project also made savings in this project, which is also the same. In fact, the Karlovac project is an example of all units of local and regional (regional) self-government that it is important to prepare in a timely manner, not only technical documentation, but also to get all the necessary permits and construction and location because it is also quite time-consuming and therefore it is important to say now in the IPA programmes or in the future cohesion fund of local units, but now start with the establishment of building, location permits and then by preparing quality project proposals in order to really have quality projects prepared in a timely manner. He was here visiting Mr. Sailer, who is actually the director of the ISPA administration and otherwise the Cohesion Fund of Regional Policy, so in the European Union, and he actually said that as far as our ISPA and programmes are concerned in ISPA, that they are extremely pleased that they can see that we have the capacity and that we are able to do and do the project. Two big contracts have been signed. Of course, they need to be implemented and implemented now. So their focus is precisely to show us administrative capacity, to show that we can comply with the rules after the documentation has been reviewed by the delegation and the commission really have quality documents which then, based on which it can be actually negotiated and that is what is really important in the ISPA projects themselves which are major projects and therefore there aren't many, only 3 are currently. In IPA, we will have a little more space, therefore and more, but it is important that through this example, the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railways, also the Bikarac project in Sibenik, therefore learn to do documentation that truly meets the standards and quality of the European Union, and in these three projects we are constantly getting feedback from the delegation and the Commission, and there is definitely a difference when it comes to our public procurement rules, and when it comes to a project that must be agreed under the rules of public procurement of the European Union. So this is also one basis for us now to develop as many new projects as possible that will cover as many of our units of local and regional self-government as possible, because of course that's our goal. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19506	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the honourable representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19507	So, I have to say that the administrative capacity existed before Karlovec, and that is precisely the case of Koprivnica, and I hope that Koprivnica will be an example of how paperwork is being done by FIDIC, how the project is being negotiated and how the project can be implemented in real time because if Karlovac who has been preparing for us for 4 years is going to be an example, then I ask you when will the first next wastewater treatment device be built. That's one thing. Secondly, he is 5 million more expensive than Koprivnica, he does not solve the mud and we are our device when Stavros Dimas, the European Commissioner gave us a reward for sustainable development, told him what kind of device we have in Koprivnica, he remained surprised that in one Croatia there is such a device which unfortunately none of the Croatian representatives presented in the European Union. Our device is currently the best device in Europe because it solves mud unlike a carlovac that doesn't have a mud solution, there's only a gas dysestia where you're blue gas with a torch that goes into the air, and you don't have a building permit...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19508	Thank you, Your Honor. Your time is up. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19509	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, Mr. Vice President, we do not need to discover hot water, but clean water, yes, and if this is an important topic for the development of local communities in Croatia, then what is de facto should be said in the Croatian Parliament, and not what we would like to be desirable. Clean water, purifiers and tourism development strategies in the future is in any case what will tie us to ours, one of our specifics, which is tourism. The smallest community in the European Union does not pass without a purifier, therefore it is a great element and should be encouraged to educate, educate and inform units of local self-government, not only in tourist areas, of course, and others, but especially here, because we are getting a break from the development that we have at least been used to in tourism. As far as this report is concerned, of course it's good to get a report. What is missing in that report, and it would be useful to be fair to those who do their job well, as well as to citizens and citizens in informing about the following. At this point, in 2008, when we believe that in 2009, all the chapters in the negotiations with the European Union would need to be compared with countries that had different funds at the time, they were not the same funds, it is known, but how much in the month, in the year and a few months before the end of their negotiations, individual countries withdrew funds from pre-accession funds and at what rate and which dynamics were therefore approaching the standards which were, in any case, in that extreme effect of including and becoming a member of the European Union. What's worrying a little bit, maybe it's not a large number, but when you get into the substance of these irregularities that are listed under point 7 it's that there's this kind of fraud attempt. That's what's not good and it creates quite sure and one, so maybe one more stringent screening of our projects if there's a failure to comply with the public procurement rules as set out in the 2005 program, truth, year. I would like to believe that we are investing in people who know the projects, investing in the information system and investing in how the European Commission is reporting to us, the quality of the documentation is improved, but these shortcomings still shouldn't occur. It's in our interest to actually go to them for education by people who know how to do programs. And I'd still like to say something, you have on page 44 listed for example. One key point, in fact, is our trip to Europe, to support the judicial administration, to support the management of cases. So what concerns the preparation of services in the process of approaching the European Union, I think it is still insufficient, and these are still the holders of ministries, individual ministries, services that must be in the service of an absolute team for functioning in the European Union. And today, if we came to one of the ministries or to one of the agencies, you would have to ask well whether they know how it will work when we are in the European Union, and that is not so far away. Finally, I would say something if it were not good that the Committee on European Integration is not here today, it was known that it was on the official road and this debate could have been carried out purely formally in that session when representatives and representatives and president of the Committee on European Integration in the Croatian Parliament, so before the only committee that proposed something other than adoption was the Committee on European Integration, which, in its conclusion in point 2, says, is obliged to create and report a project that would ensure the use of funds from the relevant IPA pre-accession programme for the preparation of the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament for Labour under the terms of membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. It's an important element, because this institution where we are today's highest House of Representatives needs that help. This is not a question of criticism or anything, but simply something that needs to be done both as high and as fast as possible, and this applies, of course, to other ministries as I have already mentioned. It is always good to say, therefore, that they come to the Parliament regularly, but there is still more work to be done in terms of the preparation of certain services and the use of funds really according to the needs of development, future development and the removal of all thought that any political decision could affect the allocation of funds. Yes, you would. In that sense, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19510	Thank you. Since it has been stressed twice today during the debate that it was necessary to postpone and wait for the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on European Integration has given its written report, discussed this report and gave its written report here on benches and you all have them here on benches at the Croatian Assembly. And all the other conditions required under the Rules of Procedure were met, and this debate had to be held today. Thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This report that we have in front of us has actually been done quite well, because it contains all the information needed for a quality assessment of the success of using pre-accession funds so clearly and detecting all of the relevant data needed in order to be able to discuss it equally quality and debate it. We primarily conclude that according to both the agreed projects and the funds that have been paid, but also the ones that relate to end-users. After all, the shifts are visible not only in this respect, they are also visible in the management of these programmes, because we can certainly see from this report that the suspension measures applied to the PHARE programme have also been removed. What we really need to be occupied here together and what we should be gathered about is the ability to withdraw funds and their dedicated use, and that should be said at all levels from therefore highest to lowest levels and certainly impose certain obligations on all of us, but we certainly need to say that there is another factor that we cannot ignore and that is present and that participates in all of this, these are businessmen, and they are not very envious, we have to say that because the procedure that is very demanding is questionable to them, perhaps in the present state, or how much they can be mastered as such because they should be said that they are most likely with many of these very demanding ones, for very demanding procedures they have not met, and then it is probably one of the brakes, but not impregnable in any case. This report should also highlight one more accreditation of both supervisory and control bodies, as in any case the credibility of the requests for assistance required, but also the supervision of how to spend them must be improved in any case. This improvement will certainly remove many of those irregularities, and we will raise them to a minimum, and then the state will certainly have a chance to save more money. Here's this money that we have in this report that we're discussing, we're actually getting as a kind of help. This is aid in the right sense of the word, so whether or not and that is why this time is ahead of us, and now we would have to make the best use of what we do in any case, of course, because tomorrow by entering the European Union we will be in position and apply ourselves for as many programmes as possible, because we will therefore be involved in the payment of funds in funds, and then it is logical to expect that we are actually making these applications a return to those funds that we will be paying by joining the European Union tomorrow and which will be available to us because it will be in our interest clear that we will receive as much funds from the funds as possible. What is also, should be said, visible from this report, but also what is encouraging and in a certain sense and effectively done are indicators relating to the contracted assets, and they are, by my personal assessment, very significant. They are clearly taxing and listed, 76 million going through CARDS, 78.5 through PHARE, 123 for ISPA-U and 25 million for SAPARD. It is clear that they are significant because we have implemented certain reforms for them, both public administrations and strengthening administrative capacity, but also strengthened agriculture and entrepreneurship. This should also be highlighted as significant indicators of the use of funds, i.e. the use of certain funds in percentages. It's in the CARDS as we know it, we saw 95.80, PHARE 87.48 and in ISPA practically 100%. The only place we have a certain distance is in the SAPARD, so out of this 25 million we only have 1/3 of the assets that have so far been used. But we'll probably, I guess, and that's my deep belief of a man of optimism, that through the competitions for measures 1 and 2 we'll take advantage of this increase and that we'll get there for sure the percentage limit that can be for us all together satisfactory, but in the end and signifying what also points to something else, which is that both the government and the resolution ministries that have approached all these questions are very well put in place. In any case, we at the Croatian Democratic Community club believe that this is the case, but that the use of these funds from the funds can be even better and faster, certainly that. And I believe that this team whose share we have here today will succeed because it is visible from this report that they have been effective so far. Therefore, as will the rest of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I will support this report personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19512	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19513	Thank you very much. Here's the computer that gave me a certain technical problem, although it made life easier for me in another segment. Finally, on behalf of the SDP club, thank you very much. I asked 20 questions. I've got a lot of answers, and that's good, and I hope that things in the next report will be good and better. What I didn't get the answer to is related to the strategy, meaning also a concrete monitoring of the report by the government. So we'd like to see that part in the next report. What the SDP is appealing to and what it wants to point to are the following things in the assembly and the next report, but also in the use of pre-accession funds to be made, what are the necessary conditions for pre-accession funds to be used and that the quality of life of our citizens can be raised locally and at national level. We definitely support and need to increase administrative capacity and as the administrative capacity of individual ministries, means that the ministry is equipped to join the fight for these funds. What is missing should also increase administrative capacity at local level, which has not been increased and is one of the main and essential problems. Any influence of political discretion should be removed in the evaluation and decision-making process. It wasn't done until the end. Elimination of any influence of political discretion. We don't want some units of local self-government just because they're in better relations because they're in a position to take advantage of certain projects. In addition, what is necessary is to increase the fiscal capacity of local self-government units, and in particular administrative regions according to NUC categorisation. Because the fact is that certain units of local self-government that would like to apply can't be reported because they don't have any money. They don't have their own means to realize projects. And so what's our job is constantly to warn about fiscal decentralisation. I'm not going to talk about the fact that we're a whole series of laws here is the majority of parliaments who went directly to the damages of local self-government units, therefore to the harm of decentralisation, but the fact is that without the fiscal decentralization of local self-government units, they can't be able to apply to quality projects. Also, what we are proposing, and what you as a government must find ways to implement these things is to raise the level of education by European funds. And we think that every high school student should already have a level of knowledge of pre-accession funds and, in general, of the European Union funds. But we also think that some students who finish certain colleges should be able to write projects for European funds in individual study directions within the university. You're the government. Coordinate the ministries and find an answer to these questions. That's what we're missing, that when students leave the university they can write projects for European funds. That should be our goal, because we won't be hostages to a small number of people who can do it. What we still need to do, what we want to warn about is increase the grant shares that local self-government units can report to. Because there are a lot more quality projects on the ground, in people who testify to responsibility, means in their units of local self-government than the means are intended. Also, these projects are rarely shown to be more successful than projects at national level. And finally, what you should especially work on and what needs to be improved through all your measures is to increase the degree of preparedness and certainty of real-time project realization. We're a little weak here, and it needs to be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19514	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Nevenka Marinovic is the first to be respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19515	Thank you. It is not true, counterpart Bernardic, that no capacity has been established at local level, at local and regional level. The experiences of the Zadar County show that we have had much more good projects than the funds put at our disposal, and through the CARDS programme, but also through PHARE, especially the PHARE ESK programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19516	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. ... Please don't throw it out of the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We don't get used to it. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19517	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incredible ease of deception coming from the ranks of the SDP exactly from a colleague who was now speaking for the club and just before his colleague Mršić, that we actually made it impossible for local self-government to be public on a new project. That's incorrect. Each unit of local self-government may occur in accordance with the rights imposed by the European Commission, the European Union. And secondly, these projects are not financed from the budget of local self-government units, they are financed from the state budget and from the budget of the European Commission. Therefore, it is entirely incorrect to deceive the public in such a way as you did on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19518	Thank you. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Dear Representative, be patient, answer the word, and speak. We're finishing the debate. So on behalf of the Government, the distinguished Ivana Maletic, State Secretary. Here you go. It's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19519	Thank you very much. Here I would, in the finale, like to point once again to this time scale of the European Union programme. So, the European budget and that is what is really important to understand, the difference between our national budget and the European budget. The European budget has a multi-annual dimension, so the perspective of the European Union is financially related to seven years, and our budget is what we're used to seeing is, I don't know, 100 billion in 2008, and then we're looking through the implementation that it really spent as many billions as it was planned. However, here funds that are allocated by a specific programme are used over many years. Therefore, projects financed by the CARDS 2003 are still being implemented and implemented by the end of 2008 from the CARDS 2004 by the end of 2009 and thus the same ISPA or SAPARD projects by the end of 2009. and that is, therefore, the time period which includes the moment when the funds are granted and from that moment when the funds are approved, the country starts by preparing the project documentation for the implementation of the contract, so the implementation of the tender procedures, the signing of the contract and then the implementation of those projects, and finally, the payment to suppliers. Next thing I want to say, it is about this part of the funds going to local and regional (regional) self-government units. So, really, when it comes to pre-accession aid programmes, it's not something the government's decision is. The pre-accession assistance programmes are instruments in the hands of the European Commission, so these are the funds directed towards the countries joining the European Union and encouraged and assisted by the country in its membership preparations. During this pre-accession period, the emphasis is on strengthening institutions at national level, at central state level. So, which must be prepared for the functioning of quality functioning when it becomes a Member State, and you yourselves are witnessing a series of reforms that are taking place under the negotiations on certain chapters, so all this costs is one part of the total changes that are taking place, the European Union is also funding from its own resources. At the same time, part of the funds is left to other sectors, which will have the opportunity to use these funds in structural and cohesion funds, so when we become a member state. Now it opens up to them to start thinking about projects, so they start thinking in a way that really when they are looking for funds, whether from the EU budget, so through these funds, but from our budget, they can come up with a project proposal that has concrete goals that can then be monitored, so that these results are actually achieved. Because essentially the whole system and these pre-accession and later European Union funds has been set up to finance a concrete project with concrete objectives and results that must be achieved. If they do not achieve what is continuously monitored and monitored, then the project must be abolished or improvement measures in each individual project so that it truly achieves the objectives and results that are expected of it. And that's what everybody needs to get used to. So this part of the funds that goes towards the units of local and regional (regional) self-government or non-governmental and non-profit organisations goes through those Grand Schemes, hence the grant scheme. This is one total amount of funds carried out by a single body, hence the Ministry or the Office of the Government of the Associations. In essence, a public tender is being launched and project proposals are being sought, so in the context of this call for a public tender, any units of local and regional (regional) self-government can come forward with a project proposal that corresponds to the Grand Scheme, this call for projects, and also non-profit organisations. And then again, through a very long procedure according to European Union rules, projects are chosen. A number of independent experts, so-called "independent experts" are involved in this. Asesora who are able to evaluate project proposals and make a list of projects that can finally get those funds. Units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with the announcement of these invitations, also have the opportunity to participate in those programmes with their cross-border cooperation projects. So that's another part of where they can report to projects, but yet these projects go through this tender procedure, so it's an invitation contest. All appear and then again independent experts, Asesori therefore select each project proposal and evaluate those who can really get funding from the pre-accession programme. As far as fiscal capacity is concerned, we have already introduced one measure in the 2008 budget and also in the 2007 budget, that units of local and regional (regional) self-government that do not have fiscal capacity to co-finance these projects can therefore receive assistance from the central state for co-financing of projects that are therefore financed thoroughly from the European Union programme, and also in the new Budget Law, we, in fact, excluded projects from that total limit at the level of local units financed from the assistance of the European Union. So, this is a few measures that we have taken immediately and that were important and, of course, the European Commission has asked us, because the goal again is to get not only the richest ones and those who have the highest fiscal capacity, but also the funds to go to local units that do not have enough funds to finance large ones, especially if they are capital projects, so also projects of other species that fit these different Grand schemes. So, as far as these political dimensions are concerned, in the pre-accession programmes of the European Union themselves, it is really very difficult to achieve or have because they are indeed related to the country as a whole, they are passing, every project must come in order to be able to be financed, it must go through a very demanding procedure and in pre-accession aid programmes, so in every step it is further controlled by the delegation and by the European Commission so that there is no interest on the part of it except that everything is related to the real achievement of the objectives and results set in the programme as a whole and then implemented through each individual project. Also, when we look at what the focus is and the goal of the European Commission is, and I think it is extremely important to highlight this because you have said a lot about the use of the funds itself and how much funds are really used and how much has been allocated to us. So, when we look at both the CARDS 2003 and the CARDS 2004, the PHARE 2005 can really be said and that was at the end of November 2007 that the percentages of the contract were extremely high. From this aspect, who would even hope and expect the European Commission to set standards and stop the PHARE 2006 treaty, which happened. They have said well you have agreed, but our goal and the primary objective of the pre-accession programmes is to teach the country as a whole how to operate under these procedures and the rules that the European Commission rules out, therefore, for all Member States, that we are really well prepared for the use of structural and cohesion funds, or that we can function as a Member State as best as possible. And that is the fundamental objective of these pre-accession programmes, and in that sense we have taken different education mechanisms. The agency presents the entire education programme during the year, so there are open doors for different bodies working on preparation and projects and later implementation of projects, as well as the Central State Office for Development Strategy and European Union Funds. Therefore, education is continued. In the next report, we're going to put in fact to see how big it is and how much it really works on education to see what it's all about and how it's directed. And I agree that it is of course important to involve universities in this process, and I have, or all of us, asked each other in colleges and in the directions in which they deal with the state budget. All have already included a slow education on the European Union funds. So it's still at the level of a few hours in college, but surely, it's now a change in the whole mentality and way of thinking that both the university community and the state itself turn to thinking about concrete projects and then not only thinking but really creating concrete projects with defined goals and results, that's actually the hardest thing to do, so the project is designed to have defined goals and measures to track these objectives. But it's a process of course, and it started since 2006 when we got the permits to work. So, this one mechanism, the mechanisms are running and they are giving concrete results and, of course, in the future, will produce more and more results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19520	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19521	We are going to the report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2008. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I give the vote the following conclusion: A report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2008 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was accepted by the majority of 90 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 12 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19522	We're moving to the third item of the agenda. - Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan (ISAF), for the period from 1 July 2007 to 31 March 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to point 4. Decisions on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan submitted this report. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Mate Raboteg State Secretary at the Department of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19523	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So, before you there is a report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan for the reporting period from 1 July 2007 to 31 March this year. I will try briefly to present this report to you in front of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a proposing following that structure which is otherwise used in the report itself, so here are a few words in general about the mission itself. This mission, as you know, is the most important peace mission of the Croatian Armed Forces and the largest number of engagements of the Republic of Croatia in international peace missions in general. And she would have said one of the most concrete statements of support for the Republic of Croatia's NATO peace and security operations in the world. During the peace mission reporting period, we had an increase in our members from 177 to 200 and thus confirmed our declared readiness to increase efforts, allied efforts to establish security and stability in the Afghanistan area. Right now, so it doesn't apply to that period, but I'll occasionally give the latest information. So we currently have 275 members in the mission, namely 287 and 12 members are actually technical and professional personnel who are temporarily there in the periodical maintenance of the technique and at the maintenance and establishment of telecommunications and information infrastructures. Otherwise, by the decision of the Croatian Parliament, you know that we can have 300 members in Afghanistan maximum and the decision of the Croatian Parliament also in 2009 left the same maximum number of 300 members in our Peace Mission in Afghanistan. We had regular rotations in the reporting period in four times in October and November 2007 and in February and in March this year. And also, with the help of our Canadian friends, we have organised a significant donation and transportation, so we have used their air transport of pedestrian weapons and ammunition from our surpluses in agreement with the Ministry of Interior of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. And by the way it's not, it's not the least important that I mention in the end it's successful that we successfully conducted all the preparatory actions and achieved, organized a vote in the elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament last year which was technically, objectively quite demanding, I would say the tasks, the operations because our members are operated on a large area throughout Afghanistan. But here we have made it possible for the constitutional right and members of our peacekeeping forces in Afghanistan to grow old in their constitutional right to vote for the Croatian Parliament's House of Representatives. Dear MPs, in short, on the security situation and on the mandate of our peacekeeping mission. So you know that it is being held under NATO's leadership and in accordance with the mandate of the United Nations, it is the most significant operation that NATO is conducting, not only for the moment but for a long time. And almost all key NATO documents highlight the importance of this mission, the importance of its final success. And that it is significant already speaks in itself and the fact that 40 countries with more than 47,000 soldiers participate in the operation, therefore all 26 NATO countries and 14 countries, partner countries. Therefore, the aim of engagement in the Afghanistan Alliance is to assist the government of Afghanistan in establishing control of the entire state territory, in establishing the authority of the central government, to enable the implementation of the legitimate state authority over the entire territory and, of course, to take away safe haven from terrorist groups and organised crime. You know that the highest percentage of drug trafficking comes from that space. There is one exit strategy, therefore, from Afghanistan which is otherwise a very complex story in which our armed forces are also involved, which is to place an increasing emphasis on training and equipment of Afghan security forces in order to strengthen the ability of the state itself and the Afghan authorities to assume responsibility for the state of security. And in that sense, we participate, so one of our constituents in Afghanistan is so-called. an operational mentoring team for a relationship which, according to its results in training and preparation of the Afghan army, is highly noted and highly appreciated by the Allies. Otherwise, our contingent was deployed to three regional command offices, regional command of the capital, regional command of the north and regional command west in four provinces and in permanent locations in Kabul, in... North and in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the west, also in the north and in the... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the form of a provincial, provincial reconstruction team, the Hungarian provincial reconstruction team. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I mentioned the components, it's an operational liaison mentoring team, it's a cell phone, an observation team that works in the west. These are the dedicated organised forces of the infantry, it's a national intelligence group, it's a national command group, they're national support elements, they're the purposely organized military police forces in Kabul. So one very complex structure, of which here they are, can briefly say what their tasks are and what their purpose is. The operational mentoring team for the relationship, I don't happen to mention it in the first place, although it has only 27 members, is located in the north, consisting of 19 instructors, therefore, top trained officers and officers of the armed forces who act as instructors and 8 drivers of field vehicles, he performs mentor work with one Afghan battlefield, and two instructors act on a corrupt level. So, of course, they then follow this Afghan battle and in their therefore, on their specific tasks and I say they have accomplished significant tasks in training the Afghan army, therefore, in this segment where it can be said that this is in relation to the overall situation in Afghanistan, therefore, training and readiness of the Afghan army is, I could say one of the few promising therefore, a tendency which is that indeed this army is more and more ready every day, to take on its own actions in the fight against the Taliban. While more important work needs to be done on the organisation of police forces, where there are still large corruption and a number of other irregularities. The mobile observational, monitoring team for the relationship is also a very complex task of the team being composed of them, and acting within the Lithuanian provincial reconstruction team in the west, their task is to tour wide spaces relative to the base and contact the civilian population. So, getting to know their needs and problems and assist in solving these problems. I can tell you that, therefore, the area of their operation is also a few hundred kilometers from 100 to 200 km from the central base where they practically act independently in such conditions where it is very difficult in terms of infrastructure, spatial roads and all that is necessary for the self-preservation of such a team. And of course, in itself, it carries certain dangers, because this very link with the civilian population is in some way also a challenge for the Taliban who want to provoke the local population to, by means of measures of repression and fear, also force them not to make contact with the Allied forces. I would point out that, therefore, by looking at this logistic element, we have made significant shifts, so I can say that we are now almost self-sustaining technique and we are at all solving the logistics needs of our contingent almost in all components except the strategic elevator, i.e. air transport pardon, strategic air transport and close air support and emergency medical evacuation. All other elements, vehicle repairs in supply, infrastructure maintenance, which is why we use, facilities, equipment, nutrition, road and air transport within Afghanistan, we are practically solving it independently and to a good extent independent of the help of our allies, and here we are, so we have made great progress in building a system of connections. We now have all our components connected in real time, with radio-communication devices that can transmit not only voice messages but also all other message formats. So, from digital formats, faxes, radios, etc. We have also established a permanent video link with the command, with the main headquarters in Kresimir Square, so that, at any moment, a video conference link can be established with the command of our forces in Kabul, which is very important, because we are getting real-time information about the current situation. In this respect, therefore, in this communication connection we have also made significant in terms of installing radio communications systems in vehicles, so we now have that we can also monitor the action of our forces on the ground thanks to the fact that, for several years, we have had good cooperation with the great French company Tales and their radio devices that are being finalised in Croatia are therefore embedded in stationary facilities and in vehicles, so that in this sense we can say that we have made very significant shifts. Our dedicated organized military police force already, I would say traditionally carry out a very noticeable task. Here, I've been to Brussels recently. So, ten days ago and there was a high delegation from NATO's command structures visiting Afghanistan and I had a chance to talk to some of them when they came back, where they really had it, so it's not a curtsy, but everyone was without exception talking about the high professionality of our military officers because they were giving them an escort. Escort gave them, so during their movements in the capital. You must bear in mind that the security situation is complex, that it is worse than before and that the dangers of suicide attacks and of improvised explosive devices have increased, etc. However, the way they carried out the insurance, prepared that transport, etc. He made one very impressive impression on all NATO personnel who were down in Afghanistan. So we also have all the best references and praises about the dedicated forces of infantry that provide security for the camp in the north. It's camp Marmal in Mazar-i Sharif. They provide virtually all security services, airport protection, etc. So there's so much to talk about, but so much about the structure of our forces. Of course, we also have our headquarters staff who participate in ISAF commands and other commands as dislocated personnel, and they are very valuable to us, because they give us timely information about what is happening in a broader context, so it is also a great help to our contingent commander because we are timely at the source of all relevant information and of course security information. And in this sense, great work is also done and also a national element, a national-intelligence element consisting of a particular team that closely cooperates with allies and is linked to satellite links from Kabul and from the north to the homeland which is a protected communication link so that we get all relevant security information in good time and from them, and they also distribute it to our commander in Afghanistan. Let me give you one assessment, although in that sense I said something, so an assessment of the success of our forces, or an assessment of their actions. We are, so now we have the 12th contingent. We use each of the rotations and every contingent, so we use it to collect experiences from the operation, from the mission. We have a elaborated system of lessons learned that we apply in training the next contingent and precisely thanks to and thanks to that we can now, so be happy and proud that we haven't had any more serious incidents. Our own in the reporting period, our forces faced four extraordinary events, of which were three attacks, either by handthrowers, or by rockets, etc. in the facilities where they were presently located. One was a car accident, but I'm just saying because of the method of preparation, because of the increase in quality, the equipment they carry with them, etc. Due to high professionalism, due to carefully elaborated operational procedures in all positions, therefore in all situations that can be faced, we have not had greater and more serious or hurt, and do not give God or death cases. Therefore, the assessment is that our entire contingent is doing its job successfully. I can say this when we talk about equipment, that we have secured, so besides all this, new uniforms with a digital sample, so desert uniforms with a digital sample of Croatian territory. So they now have a recognizable uniform that distinguishes them from other members of other countries, which is very important. A very quality and good relationship our members achieve at all levels with the local population, so that they distinguish them already and because of these uniforms you can immediately know that it is about our members. We also, by the communication systems, provided five new armored vehicles with special protection with... standards during the reporting period. Four of them were later delivered to them again, so we have a total of nine, and now recently, 20 days ago, we contracted with the United States of America to rent 30 of their Hanvia, which are equipped in their military base with special equipment to block the activation of improvised explosive devices, which is very important. So as far as the vehicles are concerned I think they're significant now I'd say the standard of equipment is significantly improved and I'd say we've almost reached that optimal expected level. So it is also my turn to mention a medical team operating on an air base in Kabul, at Kabul airport, which is already a traditional part of the A3 medical team, now within the Czech and Polish hospitals and we have a doctor there, we have two medical technicians and one nurse and they therefore provide health support not only to ISAF members but also to civilian officials and residents, etc. Therefore, I would say recently we have intensified our participation in bilateral programmes, as well as in international programmes to help the civilian population where now the Republic of Croatia participates more and more in this segment. In short and final, something about perceived shortcomings and guidelines for further improvements. Of course improving equipment is a permanent task and we will work on it further. So we also intend to see this, improve logistics support organisations through centralised procurement, storage and distribution of spare parts, weapons, etc. and, of course, even stronger promote national values and good, especially through cooperation with the local population, but also with all other nations participating in ISAF because in this way we directly and indirectly contribute to the affirmation of the Republic of Croatia. Dear MPs, of me so much in terms of one summary presentation of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19524	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. It says here on behalf of the Boris Sprem Club. I think it's on behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Boris Sprem. Is that right? ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I think they're two State Secretarys or maybe I'm wrong, but they're also co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would say that here we are not wasting too much time, to rationalise the time, that everything Mr Rabotek said, we also had a comprehensive report on the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, and we unanimously supported the report on the basis of this report by a representative of the Government. Now let me refer to this report on behalf of the SDP club. One of the most difficult post-war tasks of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia can be said for sure is participation in the ISAF Peace Mission in Afghanistan. This year, about 300 members of the Armed Forces are planned to stay in the unstable and insecure area. Participation in that mission for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is a major challenge, but also a great responsibility. For one thing, if all members of the Armed Forces who are on the mission return to their homes alive and are successful in fulfilling all their assigned assignments. We have been witnessing lately the rise in tension both in Afghanistan and in the border area of Pakistan with Afghanistan. The Taliban's forces seem to be strengthening, better organised, armed and have strong bases on Afghanistan and Pakistan, so they pose a major threat to the soldiers of all countries on the ISAF Peace Mission. The spiritual leader of the Taliban, Bin Laden, is inconspicuous, as the spirit walks. It's inconspicuous for the United States itself even though they own the most modern tracking and surveillance technology. I just want to stress the seriousness of the situation on the ground, and if I wanted to, we can see from the very report on the security situation in Afghanistan. Namely, our forces had, as Mr. Rabotek pointed out, four close contacts with the Taliban in which all the praises of God went well, and for this we should thank the great professionality of our soldier and their strict respect for security conditions and command verticals. But I personally believe that their experience in the Homeland War has helped them. However, here I would like to stress that a close encounter with the Taliban is a warning, a signal to our commanders that the tasks in Afghanistan must not at any time become regular. The same primarily for reasons, as one form of special war is being conducted in Afghanistan, in which all funds are allowed, and are being done by Al-Qa'ida and the Taliban. That is why the most important thing for our soldiers is good and quality training, and the preparation they have to carry out here, which requires the use of previous experiences because we know well how strong and realistic training the head keeps. Another important thing for mission members is logistics support. Armed Forces members on peacekeeping missions must have the best and most modern equipment in order to deal successfully with all the troubles. This is highlighted in point 5 of the report itself, of course, that these are serious things that need to be resolved as quickly as possible. We have talked several times about the need and the organisation of our own air transport of a large radius. The Government of the Republic of Croatia should provide funds for one such aircraft that would allow for faster, better quality and safer transport of our troops, especially such aircraft would be significant in the event of an escalating conflict and the need for the possible extraction of our forces from the crisis area. In the end, let me say on behalf of the SDP Club the following proposals to support the report and address of Mr Secretary of State in this Croatian Assembly. One quite concrete, so what we're in contact with the commanders who came back from Afghanistan heard, which is that they need psychologists in each mission in multiple places. Why? Because they give them psychological help, because they're thousands of miles from their homeland. There's also a female member. This proposal, concerning both the ministries and the headquarters, is to consider that our members who are now here heard we are close to the 300th century, grouping in one place, because that will make their safety greater. Of course, you should see the place. The fourth thing that I think would be good and that I think would be good, which is, and we miss that in our system of distinction and recognition, which is that these soldiers of ours coming back from Afghanistan are somehow given attention, given their attention in the name of the state's summit, in the name of the President of the Republic that he can, say, assign to every soldier at least medals. And in the end, I would say that on the board, from the board members and the board members, and I now repeat this here on behalf of the committee, it is proposed that either members or members of the board visit our members in Afghanistan at the most recent time or in combination with representatives of the board with the leadership of the Parliament. In the end, you know how good and long things are going and in our presence of this peace mission in Afghanistan, until the first coffin comes home. To prevent that, let us also consider these suggestions that we have given you, let us think about when we are discussing this seriously in the Croatian Parliament, because we are ultimately making a decision on what extent and in which, to say the quality, our members of the Armed Forces will go on a specific mission in the international arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19526	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19527	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the State Secretary's esteemed, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. So she'll be bound to Mr. Spremo's statement. Well done to our soldiers who are in Afghanistan, to all those who have passed Afghanistan. They're there today on the 12th contingent. At this time in Afghanistan, we have 275 Croatian young men. They're there, you know, because it asked them for political guidance, they're there because they agreed to it themselves. So no one can send anyone on a military mission outside the Republic of Croatia if that someone does not agree. Likewise, all our soldiers in Afghanistan are under quotes, if I may put it so "good men" and professionals. Unfortunately, we have a case for some of them that they knew how to turn back. That's the case of this River lieutenant who was recently arrested for not speaking for what. On the side of four of this report, it is literally said that the Peace Mission (ISAF) is a NATO-led mission, is being held in line with the mandate of the United Nations and the most significant operation NATO is currently conducting. In almost all key documents, NATO underlines the importance of engagement and final success in operations in Afghanistan. In addition to that, the engagement of the Allies speaks. 40 countries, 26 member states, 14 non-members with over 47 thousand soldiers are participating in the operation. It is further said in this report that participation in the ISAF mission is at the heart of NATO's attention and is considered an operation of key importance and highest priority. The aim of allied engagement in Afghanistan is to assist the government of Afghanistan in establishing control over the country's entire territory, to enable the implementation of the legitimate state government, and to take refuge in terrorist groups and organised crime. However, I do not believe this ISAF mission will ultimately bear fruit. A large part of Afghanistan at this time simply cannot be controlled and a large part of Afghanistan is not only out of control of the ISAF but also of the Afghan authorities. I voted personally in 2001 to send Croatian soldiers to Afghanistan, but for some time now I have not raised my hand to send our troops to Afghanistan, because I doubt that this mission in Afghanistan can bear fruit. In 2001, it was clearly logical, because of the attacks on New York, Washington, our civilization or our civilization values, but our happiness is just as we've heard here that, despite all the attacks, we haven't had any deaths in Afghanistan. But I'm also afraid that it's happening to us or that it can happen to us soon. Today, as I had the opportunity to read 47 thousand soldiers under NATO's hat in Afghanistan. I'll read to you, among other things, what the commander of NATO's mission to Afghanistan says to US General David McCernen. He said Wednesday, about a month ago, that it was Wednesday that he needed reinforcements as soon as possible because fighting the Taliban is becoming increasingly difficult and an increasing number of foreign fighters are coming to Afghanistan across the Pakistani border. "An additional military capacity," I quote, "which are requested are needed as soon as possible." It was said at the press conference in the Pentagon, adding that it hopes the new troops will be trained to fight the public as well as to train the Afghan army. He stressed the need for more reinforcements than 10,000 troops were asked to step up a military campaign in the south and east of Afghanistan where violence escalated. There are currently about 33,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan. 20,000 of them are fighting the Taliban and Al'Quid, and 13,000 are part of the ISAF. So these 47 grand are to be added to another 20,000 American soldiers. According to US officials, violence in Afghanistan is up 30% this year. And the number of dead American soldiers has been the largest in the intervention since the country in 2001. Secondly, what you respected gentlemen also know is that today in Afghanistan, far more are killed than is being killed in Iraq. More means we have the dead today in the last 3.4 months in Afghanistan than the Allied soldiers, let's call them so killed in Iraq. We are still stationed in a relatively peaceful north but it is also evident from the Secretary of State that war is spreading and what is most important. First, right. This operation is being conducted under the hat of the United Nations. The United Nations has helped Croatia from 1991 to 1995 through its UNPROFOR troops and so on. We can say in some way they stopped, let's calm down these war activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and we are eternal debtors to the United Nations. So in this particular case, the operation is not run by the United States as it is, say, down in Iraq. But what's also the point, the same thing someone should talk about in the course of America's elections. What if there's a change in American politics and towards Iraq, maybe towards Afghanistan and probably that's what's going to happen? Presidential candidate Barack Obama announces the withdrawal of the army from Iraq. This makes so far a series of countries in Iraq start from one Spain and Italy. If the troops pull out of Iraq, I assume they'll pull out of Afghanistan relatively soon afterwards. And if not, if the troops stay in Afghanistan there, that's how I express myself as a figurative "pato". Why? Because all the forces and Al'Quid and the Taliban and I don't know who not from Iraq, Syria, Iran and so on will be transferred to Afghanistan. So on all of us MPs, clearly with this country's political leadership, is to make one responsible decision as to how much more sense it makes to be in Afghanistan? What have we achieved with our presence in Afghanistan? Of course we've been legitimateized as part of Western civilization. We were equally solidarityd with those who helped us during the 1991 - 1995 period when he threatened to survive and our homeland. Afghanistan, let's say that there's not a terrorist polygon there today, but I don't know if the troops pull America out of Iraq might actually become one polygon of conflict, under quotes, civilizations. What do you do? If ISAF withdraws from Afghanistan within 48 hours there will be a change of government. If the Americans withdraw from Iraq I suppose there will be a change of government there too, the question of how stable these institutions are there today. I don't know, I guess some of our values aren't their values either. Life here is everything. There are other values there. So to conclude in the end, we'll talk more about this when we have a decision to send the next contingent to Afghanistan. This report is absolutely correct, frankly, open. I think the Secretary of State has spoken openly of the opportunities in Afghanistan in the same way, and in what position are our soldiers in that country, but what normally we all wonder when we raise our hands will all our soldiers live home? I believe that because it's about top professionals, people who are extremely well-trained. Finally, I'm personally afraid that the mission to Afghanistan is on a dead end, on that street, and maybe you should think about some alternative version of the extraction. It's also good that our soldiers are there, we see, as we've heard autonomous. That they are able to perform themselves, I don't know, from repairs, supplies, supplies. That they have a video link, that they have their commands or representatives of their members in those Allied Commands. It is also good that the maximum attention is given to their training but I am not optimistic about the success of both our mission and ISAF missions in Afghanistan. The secretary of state mentioned earlier that they were unable to do so, or Mr. Shmrem, I don't know how to control the Americans right now. More and more suicides, mines and so on. That the war just spreads. That in some way he's approaching our soldiers in the north. All in all this report is highly correct. We will vote for the same but I will personally and in the future remain reserved when the next decision is made to send some additional contingents of soldiers to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19528	Thank you. We have the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19529	I find it incorrect to quote colleagues Cain that the automatic extraction of the United States and their allies from Iraq would also mean the extraction from Afghanistan. I don't have any proven thesis. Why am I correcting it? I'm correcting because it's not good to make an impression in the public that this intervention in Afghanistan and Iraq is something that's identical. It's all different missions, completely different participants. This one's under the auspices of the United Nations, this one's not. So we should not be under the impression that our participation in Afghanistan is identical to what we are, for example, in Iraq. I don't think it's, no, no, it's such an impression, and that's why it's not a good doubt that citizens have rightly to extend to Afghanistan for possible intervention in Iraq. Afghanistan is a completely different story.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19530	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Mato Biljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan for the period from 1 July 2007 to 31 March 2008. In his comprehensive presentation, the Secretary of State praised the management and management of the armed forces in this mission, i.e. the management of the people and resources, as well as the lobbying supply so that simply one mission could succeed, all these elements were satisfied and it can be said that the Republic of Croatia continued to strengthen and support international efforts to establish peace and restore peace in Afghanistan. At the very beginning of this mission our Armed Forces numbered 177 members, then it increased to 200 with the possibility of an increase, so this year up to 300, and as we heard it, we now have 273 plus 12 in the technical profession. The security situation is nowhere, wherever there is a war, wherever there is a terrorist, so whether it's a war zone or a peacetime area with the possibility of terrorist attacks, or from this report, we can read that the Taliban forces have left the strategy of direct offensive action or have seen that they simply have no opportunity with stronger numbers, stronger and more equipped armies, so the methods of suicide bombers and the setting of improvised explosives have been caught. In 4 sudden events in the report during this period, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF mission showed great professionalism and strict respect for the security of the command procedures and where it is respected in the military of the security command procedure, it is certainly reduced the possibility and suffering of our members and we can conclude in that 4 through the report that there was only one in the traffic, one accident means that the ice is at fault in the bridge, and perhaps a little responsibility of the driver himself and that one of our members was injured more easily and immediately in the German hospital in the camp was put into debt. It should be pointed out positively that all Croatian contingent components are equipped in a new military sand color uniform with... What is among other things is the recognizability of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. our soldiers, and the uniform itself, I personally saw it was quite masked for the area in which it is located. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The equipment of our members with a new assault rifle G 36 caliber 5, 56 millimetres has clearly shown our commitment to quality and NATO standards, improving the system of connections, increasing accommodation capacity and improving logistics support, and here I stressed that without good logistics support, no mission can succeed. A peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan is a NATO-led mission, we have heard several times today that there are 40 states, 26 member states and 14 non-members with more than 47 thousand soldiers participating in the operation. Armed Forces members are organized in the area of 3 regions of command, north, west and capital with their dedicated forces, meaning dedicated forces, organized military police forces, medical teams, dedicated forces of the infantry, operational-mentor team links, mobile-observative team connections, staff staff, civilian reconstruction team. And what's important is to say, in our composition, we have doctors, nurses and medical technicians on the medical team who don't only provide help not only to our members, but to all others and to be in the Czech hospital. The military police forces are equivalent to 41 members, the forces of the infantry are 63 members and 3 officers, the observation team is 28 members, the operational-mentor team that has been spoken of today are 27 members of which are 19 instructors and 8 drivers and an intelligence team that has six members. During the reporting period, a regular rotation of members was carried out in October and November 2007 and February and March 2008. In connection with the participation of members of the Croatian Continent in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan from 1 July 2007 to 31 March 2008, it can be concluded that members of the armed forces are assigned the tasks responsible and professionally. The Republic of Croatia has significantly increased its participation in the mission by increasing the number of members, introducing new forces and expanding the area of action. High professionalism, performance of tasks and a growing contribution that our members of the Croatian contingent in the Mission in Afghanistan promotes the reputation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the international position of the Republic of Croatia. The experience gained in the mission in Afghanistan and lessons learned will help further prepare the training of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to participate in a peace mission abroad. On June 26th, a major NATO exercise took place, a NATO first exercise in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, designed by Croatian Army officers and conducted by Croatian Army officers under the command of the commander of the Land Army of General Mladen Kruljić, which was attended by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the United States of America, Albania and Macedonia and the exercise at the new orderly range, showing how all of our members who will go through rotations on the mission will be trained. The Croatian Democratic Community club praises the order and work of members of the armed forces and supports this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19532	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19533	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate on behalf of the HSS Club, I would like to commend all our members of the military, as well as the civilian components, who participate in this mission, but also all other missions around the world. We believe that this report that we are discussing points to problems, challenges and tasks that our members in Afghanistan face, but challenges are also met by the Ministry of Defence, especially the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia with the management and management structure. We believe that these reports should include, in an objective manner, a little more civil segment of the Croatian mission and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs are involved in the preparation of the reports. The report discussed by the HSS club supports and we think that it speaks objectively enough about the contribution of the Republic of Croatia as a member of the International Community to the reconstruction and stabilisation of Afghanistan. The contribution of our soldiers is great. And how much we appreciate our contribution to Afghanistan is also talking about photographing our members at Zagreb airport with President Bush. Reading the report, along with other documents that are important for looking at our overall activities, especially the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia by 2015, which plans to build such capabilities that up to 8% of the land forces can be deployed in peace operations, and 40% of the land forces should be trained and equipped for operations under NATO auspices. We also point to the fact that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been working through individual partner programmes in very important areas, such as interoperability in the system of command, control and communication involving information, navigation and identification systems, as well as in the area of interoperability of the adoption of procedures and terminology. In addition, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are working on several important goals such as the deployment of their own forces, interoperability with other forces in the mission and the modernisation of equipment and weapons, which we have heard a lot about today. I would also point out that for 2007, we had planned to send up to 200 members of the Armed Forces, while for this year, up to 300 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are foreseen. I also point to the fact that we have 95 members of the Golan High School, and also the missions are attended by members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so we are fast approaching the percentage of those planned 8% of the land forces involved in the mission. All of the above is part of the security policy of the Republic of Croatia whose implementation aims to achieve the main strategic objectives: NATO membership and integration into the common security and defence policy of the European Union. We would also like to point out new missions and tasks of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, such as participation in crisis response operations and non-violent territory, including the fight against international terrorism, as well as the new profile of military capabilities which is defined by inter-conditional and related categories of capabilities such as timely availability of forces, the ability to command and control, the ability to deploy forces and mobility in the field of operations and the effectiveness in the engagement of forces and sustainability and the ability to carry out long-term operations. We also point to some positive effects of our participation in this mission. The fact is that we are imposing ourselves as an active participant in the implementation of international security policy. We're doing a great thing for the troubled people of Afghanistan and for us, it's too little to emphasize. It is the impression that although it is clear that all of our decision-makers we have the opportunity to hear in the means of public communication that we are in Afghanistan to participate and maintain collective security, to approach Euro-Atlantic integration and to support the fight against terrorism. We are of the opinion that more emphasis should be placed on helping the Afghan people and stress such provision as a social category. Our participation praises all relevant factors but we think that we should be careful with too many thanks. Our members who are part of the mission represent a stopper in our reconstruction of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that our members have successfully adapted to the conditions and on the ground, as well as in the way we work and operate in the mission, and we gain new knowledge, but I believe that we learn from others and others. We also point to our numbers, experience and willful moment, which are not enough to carry out the most important tasks without top-notch equipment. We therefore believe that the new modern systems of arms, communication and surveillance will be equaled with the most advanced forces in the mission. We believe that the time of preparation for the mission should be well used and adequate logistics support provided to the mission and to raise the professionalism to which there have been frequent complaints. The new requirements ahead require active participation of other ministries as part of the state administration system. Representatives of the Republic of Croatia participate in the missions, as the Republic of Croatia enters NATO, not just the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. We point out that the new requirements set before the Republic of Croatia carry with them the requirements for increasing financial resources, increasing the material and technical component, as well as the number of peoples. Following this, the HSS will advocate a rational and balanced system of national security in which all its elements, a system in which there will be no weak links, will be identified. Therefore, the HSS Club also supports this Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission in Afghanistan, and we hope that everyone will happily return to their families what we from the HSS Club want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19534	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. He is the first respected representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19535	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. In front of us is the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping missions from 1 July 2007 to 31 March 2008. So the participation of our armed forces in this ISAF mission in Afghanistan is appropriate in order for the Croatian state to direct its forces and assist the Allied forces in establishing peace, in building Afghanistan, in training the Afghan army and police to further act and lead the state. Namely, as the UN-led mission ISAF reported in Afghanistan is a NATO-led mission in line with the mandate of the United Nations, and NATO is the most important operation currently in the world. NATO's almost all key documents point out how important it is to engage all the forces and all the countries in this operation, and we can see from the report that 40 states, 26 NATO members and 14 non-members with over 47 thousand troops participating in this operation should certainly not doubt the success of the operation, given that peace in Afghanistan must take place, the question is just how long it will take. The participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia continues with the strengthening of support for international efforts to establish stability and restore Afghanistan. During this reporting period, the number of participants as we have seen and heard has already been increased from 177 to 200 members of the armed forces, while 300 of them are approved for 2008 and now there are 287 of them, along with the civilian structures they support. All of this is about increased engagement of the Republic of Croatia in a peace mission and the declared intention that the Republic of Croatia and its armed forces want to help allied efforts to establish peace and stability but also the visibility and credibility in the partnership for peace in all operations that are conducted and especially those that are most important, most complex and that will certainly have their final success regardless of the individual doubts of those who do not believe as always. The Croatian Armed Forces contingent has been deployed to four permanent locations and these are Kabul,... Chancaran and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and in the contingent are the following components, which are the dedicated organised forces of the infantry, the operational mentoring team for the relationship, the mobile surveillance team for the relationship, the mixed medical team, the dedicated organized forces of the military police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other team components are strictly national and aim to provide support and create conditions for the implementation of rural reconstruction or PRT teams. Namely, the circuit reconstruction teams are very important components which, with the civil sector and the military sector, together with the engagement of the funds of individual countries that want to build infrastructure, wish to improve the work of civil services in all these provinces of Afghanistan, thus leading to a single order, peace, stability, progress and ultimately that Afghan people together with their authority can enforce laws, conduct order and peace in their space. We hope that our soldiers who are in the joint support of Lithuanian leadership, including Hungarian and those who are diplomats and two civilian police officers, inspectors, police advisors who support the German team will certainly contribute to the progress in these provinces in which they are and in these operations they operate. The Croatian contingent, as we have said, has been deployed to these four permanent locations. And what should be stressed is that members of the Croatian Armed Forces in Afghanistan do not have the mandate but do not have the capacity to impose measures but only to carry out the task of supporting, preserving peace, training Afghan soldiers and building Afghanistan in the final and building structures and political, military and police so that Afghanistan can live as an independent state. Of course, this is opposed in many ways by all those terrorists who want to go through Afghanistan and through the Afghan government and countries in the environment continue to make money on cocaine and on drugs that they carry or who smuggle across these countries. The easiest way to put it is to make a clean profit on terrorism and smuggling is to be present in the surrounding countries, and so the goal is to establish a better partnership with Pakistan, which also comes from many things that are wrong and could prevent much. Members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have the mission and can only act combatically in self-defense and when their lives are strictly in danger. Therefore, everything else they do works strictly on the tasks of the same command. What is important to say is that a protected direct video link has been established on Kabul-Command of the Operations Centre of the Croatian Armed Forces, as well as with NATO commands in Brussels, and we were personally able to notice as representatives of the board in one mission where we were in Brussels. One student trip under NATO's command that ours and in Brussels, as well as our commanders in Croatia, speak directly and see the situation as it is on the ground. This is what is very good and we can praise that such a way of protecting the direct video link to Kabul-Zagreb can be commanded by our forces and talk about what is explicitly needed. I would like to stress that in this, in our study trip where we were president of the Committee on Defence and also members of the Committee on National Security in all NATO commands, only praise is given to the work of our officers, officers and soldiers. To the work of our mission in Afghanistan as well as anywhere in the world where they are engaged. This is to emphasize and to commend and to say that we really have professional, professional soldiers, officers and officers who explicitly want to present the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as well as the homeland of Croatia worldwide are doing their job thoroughly and professionally. All the praises they've received are multiple and certainly deserved. What I still want to stress is already said to be equipped with, according to NATO weapons standards. "Hegler Hof" rifles with 5.56 ammunition as well as uniforms that are suitable for digital, making Croatian... They certainly speak of a significant advance in our armed forces and of modern equipment and weapons and equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this annex, it should be pointed out that during the reporting period it was sent and placed in the operational function of 5 armored vehicles of the Veco brand armed and equipped with NATO standards, ensuring a large, high level of ballistic protection of the vehicle crew. There are four more vehicles in preparation to meet the needs for, achieve a high standard and visibility of our members. Here, as we can see through this report, we can only praise the report, but also the work of those who are described in this report, and I really want to point out once again that these soldiers are promoting the reputation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in international missions, but they promote and the reputation of our country itself because they are followers of those creators. The creator of the Homeland War who created Croatia's homeland. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19536	Thank you. And distinguished representative Zeljka Antunovic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19537	Thank you very much. At first, I want to say that I will support this report. I'm happy with his shortness but at the same time with clarity. I think it contains everything that is important for one debate in the legislative body, in the House of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament and I think it is also good that it is also visible that those jobs that still need to be completed are those elements that need to be fixed and to raise safety but also every other aspect of the stay of the Armed Forces in the mission in Afghanistan. I hope that you will join these conclusions and those brought out in this not long but I do think at least in parts of a useful debate. And everything with the purpose of increasing security above all those who represent the Armed Forces in Afghanistan. And secondly, to increase our ability to participate in such missions. Croatia has been participating in a mission in Afghanistan for six years. For 6 years, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been going on the mission that started primarily with the intention of supporting international efforts to establish stability and rebuild Afghanistan. We remember all very well that a direct cause for such a complex and quite strong action was, there was an attack on New York. The attack on New York as a symbol of the unscrupulous terrorism that threatens the world and, at the same time, Afghanistan as some kind of cradle of force that represents the core of these terrorist forces and attacks. In addition to this technical aspect of the report, which I do not really have any objections to, it seems to me that there is a very serious political aspect, so I will take this opportunity to say a few words about it and perhaps encourage some kind of future debate on it. It is true that this mission in Afghanistan has an internal-political and external-political aspect. It is important for Croatia to prove ourselves to be a serious partner of the NATO alliance, as a relevant partner who is able to carry out its obligations in quality and reliability. It is important for Croatia that we promote ourselves in the world directly to such activities as a country that promotes peace, peace, peace policy and which is not ready to participate in any international military, military-political activities but rather in the targeted ones, which are of temporary character. These are the ones that encourage the creation of stability in a country where the country is intervened and conditions are created, for the country to take responsibility for the situation in its own country in some acceptable period. I mentioned we've been there for six years. This report does not contain those aspects on the basis of which it could be judged whether the shifts in this part, in the part of precisely taking over the responsibility of the Afghan people and the Afghan government for their fate and stability of their country and a certain kind of fight against terrorism that has been made in this direction? We know that certain shifts have been made but the question is, are they sufficient and are they equivalent to the period, which international forces are conducted in Afghanistan? I think it would be a good idea to open a debate on how far it has come and what our role is to be the force within the framework of the International Community, within the framework of the United Nations, to show greater efficiency than its objective. Because we can't accept and we can't laugh, I think we're like a country, we're a small country. We're not some kind of leader, and we don't have to be a leader in such actions. But don't let us take the initiative to participate in something that may in some way have lost its original meaning, a meaning that pleases the political interests of our country. I'm warning you this. I have a very positive view of this, but also of other peace missions. And that is why I am warning myself that I would not want it to be born into anything else, I would not want Croatia to be drawn into something that we do not need to participate in. We have space in NATO, we have space in the United Nations, and I think that no matter how small we are, we can take a proactive stand in this political sense. And finally, until I hope to see the boys in Afghanistan, give them the greetings and the support they have, and I hope that this technical support that you are constantly strengthening will not only be a letter on paper, but truly real support. And it's good, it's good to be there. It's a good thing we're there. I think it's kind of a daily exercise for what's waiting for us in NATO. Not only do we show what we know and can, but we also check our strengths and abilities for future challenges that await us within the NATO alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19538	Thank you. And final review, Reverend Mate Raboteg, State Secretary at the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19539	Honorable MPs and MPs. So, I also need to look at this final review not to pollomise or answer some questions, but to express your gratitude from this place for your support. So, as advocates and advocates and as political parties to our soldiers in Afghanistan, but I also understand that as broader, support for one responsible policy that the Republic of Croatia is leading as a responsible member of the International Community that recognizes therefore the problems and the International Community and is ready to solve them together with other democratic countries. So in that sense, I had a need to report back, so I'm going to look back at some individual exposure. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Sprem for his suggestions. I have to say that we've been thinking about them and I absolutely support all these suggestions. We have considered various options of our involvement in some international initiatives to ensure strategic transport, strategic air transport. So there are practically two initiatives. One is an initiative that brings together most NATO member states in the reservation of resources for aircraft C-17. We are seriously considering it, so where would we actually reserve our participation a certain fund of hours for the use of C-17 for strategic transport and consider various options and financial weights of such engagement. There is another framework, strategic transport. It's so-called. You're kidding. So, where resources are used mainly Ukraine and their, therefore, transport capacity with large aircraft. So we know we can't get big planes ourselves, but through some multilateral initiatives, we'll certainly get involved. Of course, we'll include psychologists in the mission, and I absolutely support that, and we recognize that people need that profile of experts down there. Of course, they will be complemented with our souls, and on that side, this post-rheumatic stress is not only a feature of wartime, but also of a time of such engagement I would say in the peacetime operations and we must watch out for it. We have to be careful what happens to our people later when they get back. And of course, grouping members in one place. Surely it would be better if we were in one place and we're considering options now, so grouping our members. At the same time, you can't do it overnight. Our allies we work with are used to us. Any cancellation like this causes a whole series of problems in field operations but also bilaterally. Of course, it would be best if we had some kind of provincial reconstruction team. But you know it's not just the Ministry of Defense. That may even be the least of the Department of Defense. One province's governance in such an undeveloped country is a major challenge for the whole country. So, we haven't really discussed it seriously yet and the question of whether and at this point looking at, so not only say I repeat to the Ministry of Defense, but to the overall economic potential, whether we have a program, and whether we have the strength to do so. I also agree that we should share medals as other Western countries do. We're only used to the medals, so that our members of the Armed Forces won in the war, but also the medals for peace operations. Anyway, I support these suggestions. We've been thinking about them. Of course, well, I'd like to refer briefly to the presentation of Agent Cain. I understand his skepticism. He's partially understood, partly and justified, but I would disagree with such a pessimism. I think Afghanistan is a complicated story and a conflicting story. So here we have amazing examples of success. First of all, in democratisation of society, in liberating those social energies, in emancipating women, in increasing education of children who have never seen school, in human rights, etc. On the other hand, one hopeless poverty and, of course, when I talk about the success of this mission, it is always stressed that there is no alternative, therefore whether or not to interrupt the mission, whether the allies get away with having to succeed, but can only succeed through the synergy of military and civilian efforts and it is constantly stressed at all NATO meetings. So there should be one coordination of this military component that provides, which gives one security framework, but all that is needed. Therefore, the cooperation of the United Nations, the European Union, the World Bank and all other institutional and non-institutional donors is lacking. So that's why this whole thing doesn't go so far forward, so that's also, in a sense, how I can comment on it in the context of my modest possibilities without some political analysis. So that's why this progress isn't so great, so expected and so obvious. Because it's not complex right now, the necessary synergy of all international institutions is not represented because the military component can definitely not solve Afghanistan's problem on its own. Therefore, and I agree with Mr. Vidovic, there is no need and cannot be a sign of equality between Iraq and Afghanistan, and here we will, on our part, do what is possible and I think we know what needs to be done and we are very realistic in assessing the shortcomings, and here I can really say that we have done a lot in this regard and I also accept the recommendation from the representatives of the HSS Club that this report may be more involved in the next time, and this civilian component that will strengthen quite safely, and we as the parent ministry will then ask for contributions and from the other ministries that participate, and then we will present a full report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19540	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the terms. We'll interrupt the session now. We will continue at 15.00 hours with the 4th point, and this is the Report on the State and Management of the Stock Stocks for 2007, with financial indicators, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I wish you all a good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19541	3. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan (ISAF), for the period from 1 July 2007 to 31 March 2008. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission in Afghanistan / ISAF is hereby adopted for the period from 1 July 2007 to 31 March 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was accepted by a majority of 110 votes in favour and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19542	We continue with the work of the session of the Croatian Parliament. - Report on the state and management of commodity stocks for 2007, with financial indicators Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia submits this report on the basis of Article 6. The Strategic Stocks Act. You received the proposal by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19543	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. According to the report on goods, public goods supplies for 2007 it is evident that business is in line with the Strategic Stocks Act and the regulations applicable to the budget and budget users and decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the Strategic Stocks Act, it is determined that strategic stock supplies are created to ensure basic supply at a time of war or direct threat, independence and unity or survival of the Republic of Croatia, and on the case of major natural disasters and technical technological and environmental disasters. Stock supplies can be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in the event of a humanitarian aid disaster and in the event of the participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Today's report shortened the list of annual stock exchanges, as well as the presentation of stock stock management for 2007. In accordance with the legal provisions, a regular annual list of state-owned goods was made, as of 31 June 2016. 12., the census was carried out in a way that, in addition to the list committees, representatives of the state inspectorate have also participated and have found that there are no shortages. In the structure of the 2007 strategic stock supply, the highest value is 11 product types and 11 account for a total of 84% of stocks. And that meat with 16%, euro diesel with 14%, lube 14%, wheat 13%, meat, fish and other cans 8%, jet fuel 7% and sugar 6%. In 2007, the purchase of goods worth 44.4 million kunas, pillows, pillows and sheets in a set of 8 thousand pieces, tents of 320 pieces, powdered milk 50 thousand pounds, fish cans 144 thousand kilograms, whole-day dry meal 200 thousand pieces, 250 thousand liters of water for drinking, water tanks 10 pieces, fire extinguishers 250 pieces, brooms 1000 pieces, aggregates 11 pieces, 3 water pumps and 40 pieces of immersion pumps. What you received in the report is that the total income and receipts in 2007 amounted to 246 million 590 thousand 393 kuna, and total expenditures and expenditures were 211 million 765 thousand 887 kuna. This is a real surplus of income and income of 34 million 829 thousand 505 kuna which, with excess revenue from previous years, account for excess income and receipts available in the next period of the amount of cca. of 85.2 million kuna. The above-mentioned revenue will be used in accordance with Article 16. The Strategic Stocks Act and this is for the purchase of strategic stocks according to the 75, cca balance sheet. 75 million kuna and to pay off the loan from the purchase of the wheat from cca. Ten million kunas. In 2007, a number of activities were carried out and the basic characteristics of the business were the regular exercise of stock market controls, the value of the strategic stock stocks, increased by 10.3% compared to 2006, the total revenue achieved in 2007 was increased by 150% compared to the previous year, which is due to the fact that mercantile wheat was sold according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision. Of course, expenditure has been increased compared to the previous year by 196%, mostly due to the cost of supply and loan payments. And despite all this, there was a surplus of revenue from the expenditure of the already mentioned 34.8 million kuna. Also reduced obligations and long-term claims, the debt of reimbursement of funds for the purchase of wheat, the payment of revenues obtained from the State stock business was also all put into the single account of the state budget, so the full functioning is through the State Treasury. The renewal of strategic commodity stocks, corn and wheat was carried out in order to preserve quality. I would also like to inform you that at a recent international conference on crisis management and stockpiles in Prague, ahead of cca. For a month, I can proudly say here in front of this High House that the Republic of Croatia has just received a 2009 household for such a conference, precisely at the values of our exhibitions that were in Prague and, of course, the experience of managing goods stocks and especially in crisis situations. So it is certainly one commendation to the Republic of Croatia in the way the stock supplies work with us. Here I thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19544	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. We're moving on to a debate and I'm opening a debate. It's a club debate first. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The report on state and management of state-of-the-art stock stocks is definitely a subject that justifiably causes a particular interest for a whole series of reasons. However, at this point, not because of its exceptional strategic importance in times of crisis for the state, which is the state of war, natural disasters, ecological disasters, etc., but because of a whole series of affairs and possible crime that followed or followed the business of the Trade Reserve Directorate, which were mostly hidden or hidden from the public eyes. Article 6 is replaced by the following: The Law on Strategic Stocks The Government of the Republic of Croatia reports once a year to the Croatian Assembly and to the management of goods supplies. First report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the state of... the goods stocks after 1999, the Assembly was only submitted last year for the period 2000 to 2006 to the insistence and the Club of HNS representatives and other representatives in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate on the report here in the Parliament and the occasional findings of journalists showed a picture of the riots, both the management of state goods supplies by the directorship and the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the strategic segment in the life of the state. Following the debate in this House, almost the entire interested public expected that the police and the state's attorney's office, in addition to the Index, Maestro and others, would launch and clear the situation and determine the actual amount of damage in stock. The fact is, and then the report and the debate found and suspected that at least one billion kunas of Croatian taxpayers were donated from goods reserves to various private companies. As part of all the negative events and finally by changing two ministers to two key ministries, the police ministry and the judiciary, we expect the state's attorney to launch action in clearing the situation in the stock reserves, for which we propose the name Darovica. In fact, the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards those who treat stock reserves as self-service without cash registers and cash registers for the collection of state goods, can only be called as a gift. In the club of the Croatian People's Party, we simply do not want to believe and condemn at all the possibility that billions of kunas of state money can fly into the wind, and that this is considered a small business failure, loss or forgetfulness of those responsible for the Stock Reserve Directorate. Who's in the interest of destroying state property for years under the carpet and forgetting? I would like to remind this occasion only of part of the system of negligence against the property of taxpayers. In 2004, 197 million kunas were written off from the stock reserves of the state's claims from private companies that had sold goods from stock reserves in the years before, and they did not pay for it. Of course, before the company was fired, they went into bankruptcy or were liquidated or the court rejected the claim by the Directorate for Stock Reserves for the collection of claims or write-offs from the special decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to intervene from the stock reserves to a company in Croatia. In 2005, 118 million were written off, 2006. 119, 2007. 45 million. A total of about 480 million kunas of outstanding claims from the stock reserves for four years after a unsuccessful court case against all those who left the self-service of the goods reserve with goods, not stopping at the register. This is to be added to 332 million claims that have not been charged but have turned into state ownership shares in companies that have owed goods from stock reserves. This should be added to 259 million kuna claims still held as living, 105 for interest and more cca 95 million long-term claims of suspicious and other claims. It is expected that a good part of these claims in the coming years will be read in the annual reports that are being written off because they could not be charged. Of course, these write-offs due to the outstanding claims for the sold goods stock do not go to the heart of the current Director of the stock, Mr. Tomic, and I particularly underline and stress this. This is the result of the catastrophic work with stockpiles in previous years, and according to our assessment, the bulk of the dubiosis is before 2000. Has anyone in the control department ever dealt with this problem? Did anyone ask if the stock was sold to the best bidders based on competitions? Are they required adequate instruments and payment insurance for the downloaded goods? What price did the goods sell at the time of the sale? What was the price compared to the one at which the Department of Stocks bought goods when it filled state supplies? We expected that a eloquent, conscientious and responsible state audit in its findings would give answers to them. In the report of the audit, for example. It is not mentioned in 2004 that 197 million kunas of claims were written off in that year. And in the year in which all their entry and exit traffic was at 130 to 140 million kuna. So 50% less traffic than they wrote off in that year. The 2005 state audit does not mention a write-off of 118 million kunas of outstanding claims. To our surprise, for 2006 in the findings of the state audit, there is no more Director's Office for Stock Reserves. Not a word about them. The fact is that co-operation with the Department of State Stocks is one of the most profitable activities anyone would want to deal with. The fact is that state supplies can be unpunished, but that none of those responsible for their operations must be held accountable. A colleague, Zeljko Vincelj, as a newly appointed member of the Trade Reserve Council, asked him for a meeting in July, but so far he has not received answers to many questions, and let me just mention some. And that is: the name of all legal persons who owe the Department of Stocks by all categories, all written-off claims by all categories and specific amounts. In the case of conversion into a holding stake, instead of or with the year of bringing an action, the year of conversion of the claim into a holding share, the percentage of the equity stake achieved in the company which did not pay the goods from the stock and similar information should be indicated. Since he hasn't received any response since the 7th month, we'll be forced to use... parliamentary issues, which ultimately does not mean that we will also get concrete answers to the questions asked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unpaid or written-off claims are only one in a series of stock-related problems. The government's strategic stock exchange in June 2000 established goods that form strategic stockpiles and the territorial spread of goods. This balance has established the value of the necessary strategic stock stocks of a billion and 104 million kuna. For whom and how this balance was made if that year the directorship had 17.9% of the needs identified by the balance sheet of the strategic stock. In doing so, the state of the strategic supply of certain goods such as meat and fish cans, powdered milk, water tanks, sanitary equipment, and we know very well what it is, significantly less determined needs, but therefore the state of the strategic state of sugar is four times greater than the need. Therefore, the strategic stock stocks are several times less than necessary for the balance sheet, and the markets are inappropriately large. In total, in that year when the Government of the Republic of Croatia brought the balance in stock, there were 649 million goods, 2005. 530, 2006. 400, 2007. 218 million. So five times less than what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has determined. And the question is, what's the problem? Is it in the fact that there was neither readiness nor money from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to realize what the Government itself has determined or the Government should tell us and the stock exchange director's office that the balance of four years ago is no good, that the balance of four years ago is too much, that other times are today, that we don't need to keep in stock reserves billions and 100 million kunas of goods because there is no problem that could happen to us so that we need these goods. I don't care about the state supplies after the failed claims and the losing balances, unfortunately, it's not the end. Our own warehouses are only 30 percent filled. Some of them are old, unsustained or unsuitable for purpose or are leased to someone. Why don't you get them trained for function or not sell? Are all possible dislocations of the goods in our own warehouse done so that they don't stare empty, and somewhere else we pay rent, and when we pay rent by what criteria do we hire those warehouses? There are a whole series of open issues not to mention exports of wheat last year, imports this year, allegedly 200 thousand tonnes of goods reserves per 100 euros, we imported at the beginning of this year at 250, we raised ourselves the price of 150%. More or less is known, but we at the Croatian People's Party club hope to get answers from those responsible on some of these issues that we raised in this debate. And final. We propose to the attorney-general Mr. Mladen Bajic and I ask him a question when he will try to prosecute those who are responsible for such a situation in stock, whether it is public duties or those responsible in companies that have, as the highest quality bidders under quotes, "supervised bidders" maintained and bought goods supplies, and then either went bankrupt or have not yet settled their obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19546	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's not true that you can devastate as you say, stock supplies and be unpunished because of it or abuse the position and be unpunished for it. Any knowledge you have can simply be taken to the state's attorney and told him about these findings, so let the fact be established. You can't even talk like that, if you have some real knowledge, then take it to the attorney general or give it to someone who'll take it to the state's attorney instead and claim what it's about. But no one can be unpunished because of such shops. Therefore, it is an incorrect claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19548	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect quote, Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague of the whole set of incorrect accusations at the expense of stockpiles, stockpiles management, besides the same unpunished devastation and so on. However, it should be said that just the other way around, in 2004 and 2005, that stock supplies have filed a whole series of lawsuits for all those who have not returned and what they have taken from the stock supply that compensations have been made, therefore, to the maximum extent that could have been extracted from companies that were before bankruptcy or similar. And I think it's been very good since 2004. And the fact that you had the wrong information thank your representative from your party at the time, who came only to the establishment of the Stock Delivery Council, after that he didn't show up, but that's why he told all of us I think a hundred times more to the media about stock supplies he had no idea about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19550	And the correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19551	Mr. Vice President, I will also look back at the crime of the affair that they were following or following, it is a big difference, and I would like to understand that since 2004, indeed, from 2004 on, the Directorate of the stockpiles has filed criminal charges against all those responsible under quotes, that mice, rats, birds and pigeons have received criminal charges, but have not yet been brought to justice. It's a matter of justice that didn't find it appropriate to record the theft and theft and even the fossils in the silos that were found, she didn't find... And also some bankruptcy managers, I'll say from the example of "Paul Transport" Virovitica. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19552	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19553	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Let this report, which is the report on the state and management of stock stocks and financial indicators in 2007 that we received and that we have ahead of us, say that if we were to look at the current regulations under which they operate, it could be said that they were doing well in this report it was written so. However, the essence of what is happening in practice is quite different. The first business which took place in accordance with these rules applicable to the budget, for budgetary users, the Strategic Stocks Act and the Government's decisions and conclusions, this business was primarily proposed by the Directorship of Stocks because it is their own obligation. It also brings the government's strategic stock balance on a proposal from the Directorate. Therefore, for the management and use of supply supplies for the Government is a job which I consider to be carried out on a proposal from the Directorate. The report we have ahead of us gives great responsibility for what happened in 2007, although the government made key decisions. Not entering the correctness and accuracy of the mode of operation and the annual list of state goods from the report is evident that 69 warehouses from a total of 82 locations to 61 or 74% were involved by representatives of the state inspectorate or authorised employees of the supply directory. In 21 places, the list was made by the state supply warehouses themselves. This is how when we look at the question that these warehouses were formally going to the trust of the storekeepers and the goods being stored there, because just what was just before the speech was still ringing the wheat affair in the stockpiles, the frauds were present and with the control of the civil servants, exactly empty silos in the review seemed full, because they were placed at the top of the bulkheads, which Mr. Dakic now said the wheat would be placed on to obtain one visual effect, and in fact the whole silo was empty. So the balances and what we have are very important to know how much we have and what we have. If we trust that we don't have to be there, but only those who keep it, then some other cases can happen. It is precisely the question of these data after such, I do not know the list of goods and everything else, that is very discriminatory, because the issue of these data accuracy and the situation in the stockpiles is very important precisely because I am now going to give an example from a statement from the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development since 5 February 2008, the ministry made a statement on the state of supply of mercantile wheat and consumption balance until the next harvest of 2008. Why was that? Due to information that has emerged on the alleged lack of certain quantities of wheat by the beginning of the harvest in 2008. And just then, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development rejected such a statement, because it has relevant information on the actual supply of wheat and flour, which indicates sufficientness until the beginning of the harvest in 2008. This statement was made, according to the statement, on the basis of the signs of silos, i.e. the warehouse on the state of the wheat and flour with the date of 1 February 2008. In the year, a stock of wheat of 253,000 and 210 tonnes was established, which ensures consumption by 10.07.2018 or new harvests. Dad insulted the ministry of laundry in the daily press and statements by some institutions, that there will be some quantities of wheat missing until the new harvest, which he also denies because the collected data show the opposite. He also says they did not include state stock data because they are not in their jurisdiction. Contrary to this statement by the ministry, the events in the next period were different and 100,000 tonnes of wheat by the government's decision had to be introduced, it was approved to be imported and we are now seeing that all this was contrary to the ministry's statements and calculations. That's how much I wanted to show you an example of the situation in the warehouses and their accuracy, as well as the necessary controls and annual lists. So I think we should seriously access the annual list and we can't let it be left to some, I don't know on the soul, that they write, and we'll accept it, like there is. The next thing that is visible from this report is that the value of the stock stocks increased strategically in 2007 and the market dropped, and is less than 45.34% in total. Strategic stock supplies are higher by 10.33%, supply here is mentioned in some goods, powdered milk, fish cans and more there are listed, while market supplies are reduced by 91.02% compared to 2006 due to the sale of wheat on the domestic market and export sales in accordance with the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's interesting that stock stores always mention in such situations the government has brought, the government is who it is. Now the question is, why does the government make such decisions? They are not people who may not have been so directed there, because in this segment, the Directorship of Stock Stocks is a proposal to the Government and I do not think that it was at the height of the task when it delayed the exports of wheat in 2007 at low prices, which later resulted in the need for imports of wheat before the harvest in 2008 due to the perceived shortage and at prices almost twice as high. If the estimates of the Directorate and the Ministry of Agriculture were good, just keeping the sale of 99 thousand 237 tonnes of wheat that went to export in 2007, it would have prevented these 100,000 tonnes from being imported before the harvest, which it had just had the highest price. Import wheat before harvest had the highest, usually before harvesting has the highest price. I should've thought of what to do, so all I had to do was follow the price of the wheat. Let's say I gave myself a little effort, so there I saw that in 2006 eventually, $0.98 per kilogram was the price of wheat. In 2007, in the first seven months, this increase in the price of wheat per kilogram went from 1.06 to 1.17 kuna per kilogram. After the harvest that was bad in the world, at the same time it was known that it was both complete and in the world the lowest were the stocks of wheat then there was one apparent growth, the 8th month, the kuna 47, the 9th month kuna 58 kg, the 10th kuna 66, the 11th month kuna 73, the 12th month kuna 94, there were 2 kunas of that wheat that we sold, so lightly. The monitoring of these prices, the movement of the price of wheat, the supply directory should have motivated their proposal to the Government not to sell wheat in 2007. All these wheat transactions have led to the fall of wheat and in the structure of strategic goods, meaning that at the beginning of 2008 we lost the strategic stocks of wheat, and only now, as far as I know, we filled them with fruit in 2008. The same storage issue, how much storage was used, here we have seen from this data, I don't know 34%, the rest of what 54 is renting, 12% is not acceptable, I think in this segment we need to create such warehouses and bring to European level because we already have European commissions coming in and supplies will need certain warehouses that will meet the conditions for this to be maintained. And as part of that work, we were recently discussing the Storage Act, we should just as well stock supplies, i.e. the government should see what can be done with those warehouses that we rent, I don't know, that under the Storage Act we'd just be a guarantee, certain guarantees that people who work, who would like to store that stuff and keep it where they have it, because the question of what will happen if the goods, I don't know the warehouses in the company that process it, that wheat process it, etc., and if you tell me now I'll give it to store the goods, keep it, wait for the price and at the same time you'll keep it and that one would probably buy it when it's cheapest. That's why I think the issue of storage and these warehouses that exist should be linked to that idea about the Storage Act and the maintenance of those goods. And finally, despite the above conclusions in the report on the positive business of state goods stocks, I did not go into what my previous colleague was talking about but what this report said, selling 100,000 tonnes of wheat to exports in 2007, led to a disturbance and an increase in the price of flour and direct purchases for consumers, citizens of Croatia, goods, bread and other goods that are related to wheat and in a direct way to increase inflation. I think all this has made it difficult for citizens to live in 2008 and therefore the SDP club cannot accept this report on the state of supply management in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19554	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. He's gone, he's gone. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19555	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In view of its strategic importance for the supply of the population in exceptional situations, the management of supply supplies must be subject to systematic control. In this regard, he considered in the HSS that this report was also a step in this direction, in order to avoid speculation concerning the state of supply occurring in part of the media. In view of the financial crisis that is rocking the world, and climate change that will increasingly affect the lives of citizens, whether because meteorologists announce the strengthening of the intensity and frequency of weather disasters, either because of the production of alternative fuels, which increased the price of some grains several times, precisely the supply supplies in this regard represent certain security in the possibility of intervention due to the stabilisation of prices on the market. On the other hand, due to extraordinary weather phenomena that may not be happening tomorrow, but in the foreseeable future due to climate change, unfortunately we can expect in affected areas, it will require a quick and secure supply of the population to the necessary needs. In June 2004, the Government adopted a balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks, which are the type, name and quantity of goods, as well as basic and territorial spreads, the plan and deadlines for the fill of goods, which make up the strategic stock needed for the lives of people, oil derivatives and raw materials needed for the production of wartime or direct threat, independence and unity of the Republic of Croatia, or for the care of the population in the event of major natural disasters. The report shows that the basic characteristics of the State Stock Stocks operations are, during this reporting period, an increase in the income of the business of payments made to State stockpiles on a single State Treasury account, an increase in non-financial assets revenues, a reduction in long-term claims, reduced liabilities, and a reduction in operating expenditure, an annual list of funds and sources of State stock funds on 31. 12. In 2007, a total of 69 legal entities, a warehouse of state goods supplies, were carried out. In addition to the inventory commissions, representatives of the State Inspectorate and authorised employees of the department of supply were involved. A total of 82 inventory lists and records on the implementation of annual lists have been processed, with a total of 69 legal persons from warehouses, state stockpiles. In the financial review, total business revenues amount to just over 246 million kuna and total expenditure and expenditure amounts to just over 211 million kuna. Therefore, the financial result of the business compared to 2006 when it was €27 million for 2007 amounts to more than €34 million. The report shall provide an overview of the claim on 31. 12. In 2007, worth 874 million kuna, consisting of short- and long-term claims. Obligation on 31. 12. In 2007, they amounted to more than 225 million kunas, with more than 527 million kunas a year earlier. The largest commitment is credited to the purchase of wheat in 2004 amounting to 223 million kuna. Total value of goods, national stocks, strategic and marketable on day 31. 12. In 2007, it amounts to more than 218 million kuna, which is 45% less than in 2006 and the value of the warehouse is 118 million kuna, which is 3.5% lower than last year. Strategic stock stocks were 10% higher in 2007 compared to 2006 and there was an increase in supply of goods such as powdered milk, whole-day dry meal, ten multi-purpose water autocisters, large tents and other strategic goods. State supplies are less in 2007 than the year before and due to the sale of wheat on the domestic market, wheat for export and seed wheat and other goods in accordance with the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Stock stocks account for market supplies with 9% and strategic stockpiles with 91% stakes. In the real structure of the strategic stock in 2007, the highest value is 11 product types, which is 84% of the total stock while the other products account for only 16%. The highest value is 16% of the meat and Eurodiesel 14 and the lube 14 and then the wheat with 13%, meat and fish cans 8%, jet fuel 7% and sugar 6%. During 2007, the sale of wheat was made on the basis of a government decision and the sale of seed wheat market stock was also made. The sale of goods was also carried out through public tendering for the sale of marketable goods and supply. The Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the renewal of the strategic stock of corn has handed over renewal contracts and the same contracts to renew a total of 13 million and 492 thousand kilograms of corn whose return date is 1.12.2008. A contract was also concluded on the renewal of wheat, which was dedicated to the restoration of slightly less than 7 million kilograms of wheat and whose return time was 31.8.2008. During 2007, the storage space maintenance programme for the accommodation of state supplies was realised in accordance with the available resources achieved in the operation of the stockpiles and the State budget to cover the fixed costs of its own warehouses and their current maintenance. The part of the free warehouses is leased and, on this basis, revenue of just over 6 million kuna has been achieved. And besides its own warehouses, the directorship also has an agreed right to use in warehouses in the entire Croatian area for different purposes. During the reporting period, the Directorate launched a total of 11 legal proceedings in order to collect its claims. Four lawsuits amounting to just over 2 million kunas have been filed. Claims in bankruptcy for two companies amounting to more than 9 million kuna are foreseen. Two administrative solutions were adopted in the administrative procedure and three companies were subject to criminal and infringement proceedings. In conclusion, I will say that all of the above indicators show that during this reporting period with state-owned stocks better than so far, this increase in business income, an increase in non-financial assets, a reduction in long-term claims, a reduction in liabilities and a reduction in operating expenditure. Therefore, the Croatian Peasants' Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19556	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19557	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Director of the Directorate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we have a report on the state and management of commodity stocks for 2007 with financial indicators of business for the same period as the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support in all its segments, primarily for the reasons of a report which in one whole and quality way shows the state, management and business of the goods stocks of the Republic of Croatia. The former should also be accompanied by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is responsible for the management of commodity stocks and the Directorate for Stocks, represented by one of the management organisations of the Ministry of Economy and which carried out administrative and operational and professional operations, fully respected the applicable Act on Strategic Stocks and Provisions of the State Budget and acted in accordance with the balance sheet of the strategic commodity stocks that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in June 2004, and finally in accordance with the Annual Programme of Strategic Stocks for 2007. Let us remember that this was not the case in the period until 2004 when many of the affairs related to the business of goods stocks because of the non-transparent and irresponsible relationship with the property of the Republic of Croatia, but a little more later. In the case of public goods supplies, all the entities that appear, therefore, from those who manage the supply of goods through those who carry out administrative and professional jobs and economic activities to those who contract certain economic activities previously, are obliged to comply with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act applicable to the budget and budget beneficiaries and decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, they are obliged to act in a transparent and credible manner and in the spirit of a good businessman, because otherwise we will have a once again unwanted situation and an unsustainable situation in this segment of state action that we had until 2004, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia led to the Croatian Democratic Community had the strength and will to bring to full order. Of course, the introduction of order in the supply business of its large contribution from the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also been given by the Directorate for Stocks and the conscientious, responsible and professional work of its employees. I therefore use this opportunity to congratulate and thank all the officials of the directorship at the head with their then and fortunately today's director, Mr. Tomislav Tomic. The role and importance of each country's stockpiles and thus the Republic of Croatia is exceptional and of strategic importance, primarily because of its social, social and humanitarian dimensions. Strategic stockpiles as regulated by the Strategic Stocks Act itself are created in peaceful and common conditions of life in order to ensure sufficient quantities of certain food products and other goods intended to meet the need for the basic supply of the population of certain areas of the Republic of Croatia in the following unwanted circumstances, in times of wartime or direct threat to independence, uniqueness and survival of the Republic of Croatia and in cases of major natural disasters and technical and technological and environmental disasters that could affect certain areas of our country. Therefore, the occurrence of the crisis situations mentioned above exclusively takes place through strategic stockpiles to the full normalisation of the situation, or to the renewal of the normal production and regular supply of the population of endangered areas. However, stocks can also be used to provide humanitarian aid. Other countries in cases of disasters or in cases of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in international peace and humanitarian missions. The report shows that such activities occurred during the reporting period and during 2007. We consider it very important to note the fact that strategic stockpiles cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market of certain products purely for character and purpose, which makes them strategic stockpiles and create. Therefore, the creation, renewal, use and use of supply supplies and the provision of storage space for their accommodation and storage shall be carried out in accordance with the Strategic Stock Stock Exchange. We of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club would like to point out once again that the Strategic Stock Exchange was only brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2004, so in the first term of the government headed by the prime minister, Mr Ivo Sanader. This obligation in accordance with Article 9. The Strategic Stocks Act existed before, but unfortunately the governments at the time ignored it, which led to a completely confusing situation, a situation in which the Director's Department of Stocks was an uninterrupted source of affairs, a non-discriminatory and irresponsible relationship with state property, causing significant, negative financial effects. The state's attorney's office and the judiciary were buried in a number of cases that left a black stain not only on the principal's office, but on all those who did business with the principal. The demand has increased to nearly a billion kunas with an uncertain ability to collect them. As many as six directors have been changed in four years. There have been constant conflicts between competent ministries. The characteristic was a bad and unprofessional attitude towards the warehousers. Neither was the report on the state and management of the stockpiles at the Parliament's meeting until 2004. This should be remembered, and that is why what Mr Koračević said in his presentation cannot be supported and cannot be supported by the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community because by 2004, we could not discuss such a single report at all. Of course, such a situation in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia had completely disregarded the role and importance of the Directorate for Stocks. Despite the alarming situation in the said segment, there was not a single time when the report on the state and management of the stock, let alone to bring to the Strategic Stock Stock Exchange. It couldn't have resulted otherwise than completely devastating. Fortunately, today the situation is completely different. Today, as shown in the report itself, the Directorate for Stocks is based on the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the regulations applicable to the budget and budget users and the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This practice, which has lasted since 2004, has resulted in the fact that there is no longer any affair in the business of supply and that the Directorate for Stocks is able to carry out any task put before them by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We consider it important to emphasise another role of the Directorship for Stocks which is certainly not primary, but which will have its significance as long as there are market lines in full light and no institutional assumption is provided for their implementation in practice. In particular, intervention activities on the market are necessary due to certain market disturbances, with a view to calming and stabilising the situation or balancing supply and demand. There have been such interventions before, there will be future interventions and probably during this year when it comes primarily to wheat and perhaps corn, so that the situation or disturbance on the market we currently have will be resolved. Today, the Directorate for Stocks has been fully qualified to carry out these tasks, and the report shows that it also has the necessary storage facilities, one of which is owned by the state, while the other part is secured by the basis of the right of use contract. And most importantly, they are located across Croatia at 82 locations. The report can also conclude a quality and household relationship with its own storage facilities that can best be seen through the activities of renting free space and thus achieve significant financial effects. For the year 2007, 6.2 million kuna. For each commendation, the fact that, in addition to the inventory commissions, the representatives of the State Inspectorate and the authorising officer, the authorised officials of the Department of Stocks who also carried out regular controls during the year on the stored goods of the state supply, and in particular the fact that no or entirely negligible deficiencies have been identified during the controls and these activities. This information speaks about the order and discipline of all participants involved in the stock exchange, which unfortunately was not the case in the pre-2004 period. Somewhere in the opening part, I noted that state goods are of strategic importance for each country, so we from the Croatian Democratic Community Club want to remind all of us, and the Croatian public, of the very important role played by the State goods stocks of the Republic of Croatia during and immediately after the Homeland War, and during peaceful reintegration in the supply of the population, in the insurance of raw materials and... materials for the smooth operation of the economy, for assistance in defence activities, for the accommodation of refugees and exiles, for the financing of crops and harvests in free areas, etc., etc. [[The speaker is not understood4.]] The report on the state and management of stock stocks as well as its financial indicators points to the extremely responsible and quality work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Directorate for Stocks, which is supported by a number of indicators and data, of which I will mention only some. The revenues of €246.5 million were made, while the expenditures incurred amounted to €211.7 million, which means that the excess expenditure revenue was achieved in the amount of HRK 34.8 million and were higher, so the surpluses achieved were almost 50% higher compared to the previous year. Strategic stock stocks increased from the previous year and 2006 respectively by 10.33%. And I want here also to refer to what Mr. Koračević said about how the stock supplies were cut. Yes, the total stock is reduced which is good because the purpose of the Management is not to act commercially on the market, but therefore there are increased strategic stock stocks which are actually the primary purpose, which I was talking about earlier, business and the existence of state supply. Incomes were increased by 150% compared to 2006 or nominally by 148.14 million kuna and despite relatively higher expenditure growth, a better financial result was achieved because income growth is nominally higher for cca 8 million kuna than the nominal growth of the spending party. Obligations of 302 million kuna have been reduced, and long-term claims for 166 million kuna, which is the continuation of a positive trend from previous years. The renewal of strategic stockpiles was carried out in order to preserve the quality of stored products. Regular controls have been carried out on the total supply of goods in which, I repeat again, almost no shortages have been identified. I think it is still important in this section to mention when it comes to long-term claims that are down 16% compared to the previous 2006 financial year. It should be remembered that it with its condition on 31 December 2003 amounted to almost 1.3 billion kuna or exactly 1 billion 279 million kuna, and their collection was almost entirely uncertain, i.e. on a large questionnaire. With the state of 31 December 2007 they amounted to 874 million kuna and most importantly, today these claims are of quality because they are secured... So their ability to pay is no longer on the basis of a questionnaire. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, this information also speaks of the clarity of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which were heading towards normalisation of the state of supply management and the creation of assumptions for a quality and professional work of the Directorate for Stocks, which will be fully able to react in crisis situations, to find quality solutions for their predominance. For the sake of all previously spoken and support that we want to send to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Directorate for Stocks in their continued, quality and responsible work on this field, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the 2007 report on the state and management of supply supplies with financial indicators provided to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 4 September 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19558	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. And he's the first respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If at least 5 wrong allegations are corrected after my debate, I will be offended, and I believe, and the replica will not be safe, not from the ruling ranks. Did, Mr. Secretary of State, report that came before the Croatian Parliament identical to what the Council for State Stocks sent to the Government? Does this report contain all the data, findings and facts in that report that the stock reserves are heading towards the government? Or is it a report that leaves out some parts, data, comparisons, notes? That's my first question. And I'm going to do this debate on the report, not what it says, but what it doesn't have. You're mentioning the stock reserve balance the government made in 2004, I repeat, 2004. According to that balance, what must be the value of the stock reserves? So what is the value of the stock reserves provided for in that balance sheet on an annual basis? What state of stock reserves should be on the balance sheet that's worth even this year, if I'm not mistaken, I'm actually sure it's also true for 2008. In its report, therefore, the balance is also mentioned in 2004, but it does not say what the Government has determined, how much does the value of these stock reserves have to be? According to the report, the financial results, that revenues were made at 246 million, expenditures of 211 million. That's very good, but it doesn't say, that's what you said today in the introduction that this surplus income didn't stay in the stock reserves, it went through the Treasury, the Treasury. Because the stock reserves are bound to be all the extras they make in the state budget, and they have that in an indirect way. Not when they need it, but under other circumstances. These are incomes and expenses achieved, and how much were planned? So, this time for the first time, there was a comparison of planned revenue, revenue achieved, planned expenditure, expenditure achieved. There's no comparison plan and achievement. It's a little strange because it was common to give a comparative plan and a realization. This time it's gone. Furthermore, how many, Mr. Secretary of State, are the revenues from the state budget for the recovery of supplies, the purchase of a new stock? The 2004 balance is planned and foreseen for the state to allocate about 30 million kuna per year from the state budget for the purchase of new state supplies. On average 30, it was 40 and 20, but somewhere around 30 million kuna. So, how many last year were allocated from the state budget for stockpiling? The answer is that stockpiles from their incomes are not satisfactory because the balance sheet said that we need to allocate up to 30 million kunas each year to come to the value of stock supplies of about a billion and 100 million because in the balance sheet the value of the stock needed for those conditions why it exists for about a billion and 100. This amount of billions and 100 or the value of the stock at the level of a billion and 100 has not been achieved in either '04 or '05 or '06 or '08. as neither before 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 The proceeds from the sale of goods and supplies are 194 million, expenses for the purchase of 44 million, the purchase of goods. So the stock supplies are exclusively from their incomes. From their incomes they bought the goods you read from pillows to diapers worth 44 million, and that the state did not plan any kuna in the budget, nor set out, nor gave the goods to come to at least 50% of the balanced needs. The report doesn't mention it. The value of the stock on page 8 of the strategic stock supply of 199 million and market supplies of 19 million. When you add that up, it's 218 million. Someone in their debate said it was good. How can that be good if we have the product worth 218 million, and it should be a billion hundred? How is that good, if the stock is not filled with 50% planned in the balance sheet, and if the balance is guilty, let's change it or need a serious debate on the purpose and structure of the stock? The law that we have the time and circumstances of the production of such goods as Croatia has today was different. They're completely different today. It seems to me that the time has matured for the government to analyse, on a proposal from the Ministry, and a whole new strategy to prepare, because only the non-fulfilment of the balance sheet is evident that such stock supplies are not needed. Part of the stuff is kept in, or part of the stuff planned is stored in goods, part in money. That's good. There is no comparison in the report how much is in the goods, how much in the money and what goods are kept in the goods, and which in the money? I hope it's not a state secret, so that's why it was left out of this report? In 2004, the value of the goods in the stock reserves was 649 million. 2005. 530 million. 2006. 400 million, and in the last year, 218 million. So if the value of the goods being stored in their own warehouses and at the warehouse... He fell to 218 million, and the balance forecasts about a billion and a hundred, that's another proof that the balance is not good then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know why the balance sheet is mentioned in the report. I don't know what the stock reserves are planning to buy if it's not on that balance sheet because I think the balance sheet is also for annual plans. And in the next year, the stock reserves will make a plan exactly according to that balance sheet. But they stopped already planning the budget revenue because four years in the budget for the purchase of goods did not receive any June. So the masters are planning. To fulfill the plan, knowing that the budget won't get the money. Knowing that the balance sheet says, but knowing that the Parliament accepts a persistent state budget without a single kuna for the stock reserves. Those who do not understand that irregular business in the stock reserves is possible but not only because of the stock reserves but also those on the other hand, which are customers of goods, I remind them that in 2004, the write-off of the claim was 197 million, 2005. 118 million, 2006. 119 million, 45 million or half billion last year for these four years. How do you come by that request note? So a company called "Tuti fruti" is established. Check if I made up a name, there really is a company called Tutti fruti, which in 2005 remained 8 and a half million kuna in debt to you. And after she bought the supplies, she went bankrupt in two weeks, and you had to write off those claims last year. And such "Tuti fruti", dead rabbits such as not all the companies were called, totaled half a billion. And now don't tell me that it's not a crime by the owner or shareholder or founder of that company who founded the company just with the intention of doing business from the stock reserves, buying goods, reselling and then going bankrupt. And finally next. The stock reserves were executed by government decisions, and one such decision was to give 200 tonnes of corn to feed animals on Brijuni. Do Croatian stock reserves really exist to feed animals on Brijuni? Is it really possible that we do not know how to organize the diet of these animals differently, but every year we give corn and goods reserves. Do you have any shadow in the stock reserves? So give it and remove it from the stock reserves and send it to Brijuni so that the animals are not hungry. The government also decided on 4 October 2007 on the loan of wheat from stock reserves with a period of return of 31 August 2008. 4 October 2007, deadline for return 31 August 2008 Who are these companies that got that wheat? What kind of companies, why aren't they in the report, in that part of the report that went to the government, and that was it. [[Intruder: Bring the end, your time is up.]] So these are parts of that report that the Stock Reserve Council accepted, and when the government sent the report to the Parliament, those pages simply fell behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19560	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative of Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19561	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Lesar said in this debate that someone said in the Parliament it was good to cut strategic stock supplies. That's not true. I spoke personally on the subject and I said that it is a good trend for strategic stock stocks to grow and that it is also good that the commercial part of the goods means the market share of the goods is being reduced. That's good for the country. It is not an interest for the State to keep the commercial part of the stock in the warehouse and therefore to pay large costs rather than to get rid of that part of the goods. It is important that strategic stock stocks grow and this is a good trend because it is necessary to distinguish the meaning of the strategic stock stocks from the stock market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19562	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović, the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19563	Here, Mr. Vice President, so here's an esteemed colleague, Lesar, is absolutely incorrect but therefore extremely tendingly said that some company of the type "Tuti fruti" was founded in 2005. Such companies were founded before 2004. So the years before that, and right in 2004 and the fifth, we dealt with such firms in such a way that we either sued them or sued them if they didn't go bankrupt. Companies that are... wheat in 2004, fifth, sixth, had to have a guarantee unlike "Tuti fruti" companies and companies of your time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19564	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Before that, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a discussion of minutes at 16 hours and 7 minutes. Honorable representative Ante Kulusic continues the debate individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19565	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Director, colleagues and colleagues. The report on State stockpiles in 2007 details the movement of sales and acquisitions of supply supplies, the structure and value of supply supplies, the state of claim and obligations and the surveillance mechanisms that were organised during 2007. The control of goods is regularly carried out by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, inspectors of the State Inspectorate. This ensures protection and preservation of supply. Strategic commodity stocks constitute the basic agricultural, food and non-food products necessary for the life of humans, petroleum products and materials and raw materials needed for production, in particular if they are relevant for the defence of the country and for the management of the population in the event of major natural disasters, technical and technological and environmental disasters. In 2007, the state of strategic stock stocks increased by 10% compared to 2006. Obligations are reduced, revenue in the budget is regularly provided and significantly increased, strategic stocks are renewed and we can conclude that supplies are well managed. In view of the detailed information given in the report on the most important business events, the movement and state of supply can be satisfied and the report can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19566	Thank you. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19567	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We see from the 2007 report on the state and management of stock stocks that the financial result is positive. So the difference between income and expenditure is 35 million kuna and even something is more favourable than in 2006 when the difference was therefore positive at 27 million kuna. However, what is far more important than this financial result of the business is the movement in the structure of the assets and which are visible precisely from the structure of the claim. When looking at the structure of these claims, it is seen that in 2006 the dominant item, with the demand from customers, made up the ownership stakes in companies. They're 242 million kunas. In 2007, the equity stakes became a minor item but therefore shares and shares in the capital increased from 90 million kuna to 325 million or over 3.6 times in 2006. So with a stake of almost 40% or to be more precise 37% of the stock and share in the capital at the end of 2007 became absolutely the largest single item in the total claims. In fact, in 2007, the ownership stakes of 2006 were replaced in fact by shares and shares in the principal, and all of this actually points to the conclusion that the Ministry of Stocks has in recent years, so in these two years the subject of the report has increasingly been having difficulties and problems with the collection of its claims, i.e. it has been forced to convert its claims into shares and shares in its debtors, and all of this clearly with the blessing of the Government, i.e. to the increasing extent of its claims. in accordance with the Government’s conclusions on the financial consolidation of companies and the conversion as described in the report here, the accessible and inaccessible claim made by the Board of Directors in the equity role and informed the Central Depositary Agency of the number and value of the shares. The huge sums of claims have been written off in recent years, which my predecessor, Lesar, and also my colleague, Koračević, from the HNS club spoke very comprehensively. I won't talk much more about this, but I'll be free to ask a few questions to the secretary of state. The first question is what are companies in which financial consolidations have been carried out under the government's orders. Furthermore, I ask whether these financial consolidations have been made at the expense of the state supply supply, especially the part made up of the strategic commodity supply, that is to say whether such treatment does not devastate the basic function and content of the state supply institution, which is to ensure the strategic supply of food, oil derivatives, materials and raw materials needed for the life of citizens and the production in the conditions of war, or in the case of major natural disasters and environmental disasters. Which is why God does not allow war or natural disaster or any other crisis situation to occur. So why do we need stock and share in the main when we need food, when we need tents, aggregates, when we need oil. And my last question is what is being taken to collect the claim, or what is the probability of the collection of 10 million kunas reported in the two bankruptcy proceedings in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19568	Thank you. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this report, I feel that after reading it, two basic conclusions have been imposed on me, and the first thing that has been done since 2007 was to manage the poor master's manners. All those who deal with the economy know what that means, and I'll do it again. It was managed by a bad master's manners. And secondly, that report is incomplete. In some parts, it also raises doubts about the correctness of the implementation, i.e. the procedures that took place within the directorship itself and within the commodity stocks listed. Which is why, I'm going to try to say in a few sentences what I think it is and first I think it's the most mentioned in the report, so the government's decision that seems to me is that this does not release the responsibilities were prepared in a bad way and they were prepared to do damage to Croatia as well as to the goods supply itself. Which is why I think some data is almost amazing. You know what a list of assets means. Many of you have done this during your certain business years and it is amazing to me that throughout the system it is one piece of information that could enter anals and even positive records. Less than 6k was found in a system that counts hundreds of millions of values. Now we can accept it and say that it is perfect or on the other hand we can ask whether the list is done in a quality and correct way. Whether it maintains a real state or a pro form is created to do what needs to be done. On the other hand, I will agree with my colleague Filipovic that the share of stock supplies should be reduced when we talk about market supplies. The share of strategic stock supplies should be increased, which is why this report shows. The State cannot or does not want or ultimately does not have adequately qualified people to manage market supplies. Because if that weren't the case last year, they wouldn't have done the sale of this amount of wheat and directly done the damage that my colleague Podnar was saying to the state budget or state, my friend Bodakosh was saying, did the damage to sell a hundred million, or a hundred thousand tons of wheat at the price that went up by the kuna in a few months. It is a hundred million kunas that have been directly damaged and therefore I agree with my colleague Filipovic that a state in this situation would be good not to manage market supplies. It's better to take it away from her, and that's why I support that part still falling. On the other hand, when we talk about this sale to me, it's almost amazing that someone has even proposed such a decision in a situation where the drought is and when it's known that the price of wheat is going to rise, that it's proposed to be sold, especially to be sold in export. Even if it were sold on the Croatian market, I would understand, because this way we can influence some price corrections in Croatia that would benefit Croatian citizens. But selling prices this way, selling wheat in export is inadmissible. How can it be seen that 156,000 tonnes of wheat have been sold specifically? It's very hard for me to say at what price, and I wish there was that information. That's why I think this report is incomplete and that we should have given that information to see at what price and during what period that wheat was sold, that we have the whole picture and why. Is there perhaps a reason other than the lack of storage space that I do not think is because in the end of the report there is enough storage space not to manage it correctly, i.e. that we have an asset that is untapped and that could be managed better. So there's information to see the exact price at which point it was sold to export hundreds of thousands of tons and then we can really talk about how much damage the state budget was done in the last year. And if we had sold that wheat on the domestic market this year, perhaps the prices of food products would have been lower, perhaps the price of bread would have been lower. Because as we know in the last year, the latest data from the 8th month inflation amounted to 8.4% of which was 52% of food products, and these are those measures and strategies that an effective government would have to have to fight inflation rather than form a Monitoring Commission, etc. These are measures that we can take and enable our citizens to have a better quality of life, i.e. that they are less affected by the inflation that is at work this year. Finally, I would say that I am not satisfied with the report on how the property is managed, because it is evident that in the case of certain properties, i.e. specific underground storage or oil tank 34% or 33% oil tank were used because of this or that they are not adequate or that they are not used because of what they are not equipped with, should be invested in them, etc. And we're all aware of what that property is worth and what it's supposed to do to put it into service. I think the principalship, and ultimately, the ministry and the government would have to do something to make sure that the property of such great value doesn't stand unused and eventually that every day it probably falls apart if it's not invested in it. And finally, I would like to say that this report dominates the government's decision, the government's decision was made, the government's decision was made. I get the feeling that even the people who prepared this report aren't convinced of certain things that they were rightly made, so they sort of cover themselves with government decisions because no one I'm convinced of, can justify this kind of availability in last year's supply, in particular I'm thinking about wheat again. And that's why I can't support this report in the end, and hopefully we're not going to apologize for whether three years ago or four or six or eight had a situation like this, so here's the situation much better, then there was no goods or where it was being seduced, it doesn't satisfy me. I want to see that the property of the Republic of Croatia is managed in a quality way no matter what 15 years ago, 7 or 3 or 2 ago. What I want is to get relevant information, that we are convinced that the property is managed well, and this report tells me exactly the opposite. Only in this particular supply of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 was it not managed and I will end up with this, the manner of a good businessman, but the manner of a bad businessman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19570	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative of Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would like to correct my colleague Maras in his claim that the goods stock is exactly what he last said, doing business with bad business. I just think the opposite, and I said so in my presentation, that the Department of Stocks in 2007 was dealing with the manners of a good businessman, and this is contributing to a number of indicators on business and on higher income achieved and on reducing suspicious and controversial claims compared to the previous period and to increasing income, etc. etc. So these are the manners of good businessmen. And also when we talk about commercial commodity supplies, the state will always, you said the state shouldn't be dealing with it. The state will deal with market interventions, but other institutions will do so and will operate on other models that are prescribed by means of market, which will be prescribed by market lines or are prescribed. But sometimes the state has to intervene on the market. In these jobs, she may have lost something financially, we can talk about whether or not it was trefused, whether the term was good for selling wheat from the stock. However, it is not the purpose of intervention for the state to earn money in this business rather than to save the economy of the Republic of Croatia because the damage would have been significantly greater if the state had not intervened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19572	Thank you very much. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19573	So here's colleague Maras incorrectly hints and says, "There are warehouses untapped, and the state sells wheat." The warehouses exist, but there are no silos. Most of the wheat is placed in the cheapest silos, paid for that wheat pay we can call it lecarine or whatever we want, so it pays to keep that wheat. And secondly, I see that fellow Maras also misstated, the state of this, the state of it that sells there. It is therefore necessary to understand the way in which the stocks buy the wheat. The state lends money to the stock that they have to pay back. That's the thing. Thus, they must sell at a certain time, and yet many privates bought huge quantities of wheat and sold at the same time as the supply of that wheat. So obviously it didn't happen, that they were losers, because I doubt they did it on purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19574	Thank you. And the last individual debate, distinguished representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Today we have a report on the state and management of the stock for 2007. This report was high-quality and transparent, and business with state supplies took place in accordance with the rules for budget and budgetary users, the Strategic Stocks Act and decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted that the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the 2007 revenue for specific purposes and revenues from the sale of non-financial assets of the Directorate for Stocks is included in the state budget as well as in the expenditure paid by them. The important characteristics of the state supply business during 2007 are the increase in business revenues. In fact, revenues amounted to 246 million kuna, while expenditures were at the same time 211 million kuna at the same time, which will say that surplus revenues were achieved over expenditures of 35 million kuna. The revenues paid were derived from the state stock business in a single account of the State Treasury. The proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets have been increased. Long-term claims have been reduced. An increase in the demand for shares and shares in the principal relating to claims on the basis of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the financial consolidation of the companies and the conversion of the available and inaccessible claim of the directory in the equity role and the notification of the Central Depositary Agency to the number and value of the shares is evident. Obligations of 302 million kuna have been reduced, and long-term claims for 166 million kuna are related to one positive trend. Business expenditure has been reduced, strategic stock stocks have increased compared to the previous 2006 by 10%, although the total value of the stock has been reduced. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the implementation of regular controls on state supply by the ministry representatives, as well as the department of supply and State Inspectorate. These controls indicated that there were no irregularities in the work. The report shows that order has been introduced in the area of commodity supplies, which was not the case in some earlier time since the beginning of this century. It is therefore necessary to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry and the Directorate, and the best way to support this report is to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19576	Thank you. We have one replica, it's the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19577	Thank you very much. Here is fellow Vukic, you said in your presentation at the beginning that the report is transparent. And I mean, I don't know if one of the larger items in the report here means that a certain portion of the stock is sold for 200 million kuna, about 156 thousand tons of wheat. I don't know how transparent the report is if it doesn't say under what conditions, when and why it's sold. That doesn't say. So there's no talk of any transparency. I would like to know that and now I am announcing that as a representative, I will leave the question of the economy minister to see when at what point last year, at which price these 156 thousand tonnes of wheat were sold, not thinking about what my colleague Filipovic said was a problem if it intervened on the domestic market, but the problem was that it was sold into exports. We sold 100,000 tons of wheat in exports and lost certainly more than 100 million kuna on that. That's what I'm trying to say, and that's why I don't think the report is transparent and that it wasn't managed the way the stock was managed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19578	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19579	Dear colleague Maras, in the report that we received and which I said was transparent, I continue to repeat that it is transparent, unlike the time when such reports did not come to the Parliament. What you asked, I believe that the people of the department of supply have an answer to your question, but I stand by that the report is both high-quality and transparent, and that unlike the times when it never came to the Parliament, it means in the time from 2001 to 2003 it's much better already this report that we have, unlike that time when we didn't have any reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19580	Thank you. Does a representative of the government want a final word, a few words? Yeah. Dear Miljenko Pavlakovic holds a secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here are the honourable MPs and distinguished MPs I thank all the clubs and all the representatives in your debate, and also all the committees who gave unanimous support to the report on the state of supply. After your discussions, I will try to sum up and cover all the answers you asked for. I think we should say as a matter of fact that this report that you've received is true and accurate. That no data is haired and no one will waste any of the different data, but rather you as parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And I must also point out with pride that there has been no affair in stock since 2004, and to this day there is no affair, and that is all of you, the affair is gone, and there is exactly no reason to deal with it in stock. For all irregularities and for all claims, all irregularities have been initiated by the procedures observed and in the day-to-day business by the professionals in the stockpiles who take care of it, such procedures are also being initiated. But when we speak chronologically of what you asked for, regarding the write-off of the debt, the fact is that the write-off of the debt is approximately 500 million kuna in the period from 2004 to 2007. And why is there such a write-off? We should stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not make a single write-off during that period. These write-offs are not by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but by the facts of the court, precisely because of the proceedings carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia during the period 2000 to 2003, so that a total procedure was initiated which was precisely in 2000, 239 procedures, in 2001 100 proceedings, in 2002 59 proceedings, in 2003 60 proceedings, leading to bankruptcy of liquidation and some criminal proceedings during that period, and the write-offs from 2004 to 2007 were just reflections on these proceedings that the Court resolved the proceedings in the manner in which they resolved and initiated bankruptcy and liquidation, so it was no longer possible to obtain the requests that were necessary there. I should also point out here that we are talking about the 2007 report but when we were already going back in the period 2004 to 2007, although this esteemed home and last year had one such report, we should point out that the traffic from 2004 to 2007, on the side of state supplies, that the revenues amounted to just over 990 million kuna and the total expenditures were slightly more than 912 million kuna. And in all this time with this kind of traffic, I'm not mentioning the affair, and we're aware of the fact that that's what stock stores behave like a good master and keep their assets and that business that goes through these transactions. When we talk about the situation with 31.12.200, it's clear that it's an inventory that follows at the end of the year. However, throughout the year, all twelve months of all warehouses are subject to controls by employees of the Ministry of Economy and goods supplies as well as the State Inspectorate. What was said wasn't checked by all the warehouses I have to find out that the only warehouses that haven't been checked are their own warehouses. So that storage space, which is partly owned by the Republic of Croatia, is not that they have not been checked but are controls which I have pointed out have been going on permanent throughout the year. And one part that didn't go as a final balance means from 31.12. that's the state of oil and oil derivatives where it was left to the oil company INA to read the state of the oil balance in stock at that point. I think one such explanation must be acceptable because it has been seen that all warehouses that are not owned by goods stock normal inventory is done at the end of the year at 31.12. It should also be pointed out that among those refurbishing goods, there is also a record being kept throughout the twelve months and not only with the inventory of 31.12, it means the end of the year. Furthermore, as far as wheat is concerned, and what has been said about market impact and prices, I think in this report you have, I note that this is the 2007 report. In 2007, there was enough wheat harvesting from that year, and this on drought was not in that year but was just a market surplus assessed by both the stock stocks and the competent ministry, so the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development then established a market surplus of 250 thousand tonnes of wheat which at that time was also stockpiles in its balance sheets also had wheat according to the balance sheet which was satisfactory in 2007. Why it went to ransom was a clear fact at that time to improve the external trade balance, noting constantly, in 2007, because at that moment there was an 80% grain-filled situation in the supply stocks. And as for the overall state of affairs according to the inventory, it's true that there wasn't a single lip missing, so I'll dare say the basis of not a single gram of wheat, I don't know what kind of white mice or sparrows there were. I started this final word with what the Croatian Parliament gets is a report on work and what is the only report that comes out as such, there are no other reports. The fact is that a more detailed report is received by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since it is also the jurisdiction of the annual account received by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, since it is the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's true that all income is in a single account and that's in the bank account of the Treasury. I will now not bother the esteemed home on the functioning of the State Treasury, I personally consider it to be very positive and thus do business and supplies through the single account of the State Treasury and the way the treasure is functioning is such that on a special container the funds are allocated to the stock stocks and those funds that are there belong exclusively to the stock stores. In 2007, the funds received for the purchase of strategic stock supplies by the Republic of Croatia amounted to 51 million kuna, meaning it is not true that the budget for 2007 was not intended but was already worth 51 million kuna. Also for your information, in 2008, these funds amount to 100 million kuna, so last year, and of course this current state budget has provided funds in those amounts. This condition is seen because what we have noted is that it is the situation of 31.12.2007 as an surplus was 85.2 million kuna. I'm just trying to take a closer look at the further questions you've asked. It is true that in the course of next year, the proposal will take place in the course of 2009 by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and by doing so by means of goods supplies, to consider the proposal and the Stocks Act, as well as the balance sheet. The fact is that with the balance we need to see and determine the balance needed by the Republic of Croatia at the moment. Furthermore, I must conclude that stock stocks are ready to react in all situations and at this point with the goods that are at our disposal and there is no concern that such interventions will be left behind do not give God the need under what the terms of the Law on State, Strategic Stocks. As regards the very claims in terms of shares and shares, there is a visible increase in the demand for shares and share in principals, as regards the claim on the basis of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the financial, consolidation, consolidation of companies and the conversion of the income and inaccessible claims of the directorship into the equity stake. And inform the Central Depositary Agency of the number and value of the shares. These companies, with which the government of the Republic of Croatia has concluded, have done so by quality companies and these are quality claims. This is, for example, Petrochemy Kutina, worth 234 million kuna, Slavonia new County 24 million kuna, Dalmatia wine Split 7 million kuna, IPK Osijek 59 million kuna, as well as claims for goods in exchange for 21.3 million kuna related to the loan days of corn and wheat to be renewed in accordance with the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In shown claims from customers by cesium and for tight interest, there are also claims that are secured... Real estate or fiduciary rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll list a few companies with which it was done. So it is, giving one guarantee just by asking that we have the security that the funds will be charged and charged. And this is Nama Zagreb in the amount of 123 million kuna, DIZ Technoprom Zagreb 13 million kuna, Premir 400 million kuna and ZADOM Zagreb 13 million kuna and so on. This is exactly what we wanted to ensure all future claims on stock supplies and in a quality way we have the certainty that there will be no future write-off of any disputed claims. Here in the end I hope I've answered more or less esteemed MPs on all your questions that you've asked here. I apologize if I missed anything. Once again, I thank all the committees who gave unanimous support to this report and to all the clubs and to you for your debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19582	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19583	Two brief corrections. First, none of the requests were based on the government's decision. Check the fifth or sixth decisions of the government. "Koka" Varazdin, how many million have you written off by the government's decision? 20 million kuna. The court doesn't write off an application. It's the government's decision. The court only closes the bankruptcy proceedings. And secondly, the report isn't complete. You said it was complete. Show me your copy, you may have, but there are no 45 million written-off claims in our copy. It's not entirely Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19584	I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote when we get the conditions for voting on that wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19585	4. Report on the state and management of stock stocks for 2007, with financial indicators. Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The 2007 report on the state and management of stock stocks with financial indicators is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was accepted by the majority of 77 votes in favour and 39 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19586	We're moving to agenda five. This is: - Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2007 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This report shall be submitted by the Government on the basis of Article 111(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was held: the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Health and Social Care. Would the proposing representatives like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, secretary of state, secretary of state at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19587	Mr. Vice President, thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is another annual report on the implementation of the National Action Plan, the abuse of intoxicating drugs for 2007. From most of the information you received in this publication, allow us to show what may be most important in a few short lines. By the end of 2007, a total of 25 thousand 720 people were registered in the register of persons treated for the abuse of psychoactive drugs in the Croatian Institute of Public Health, representing an increase of 7% compared to 2006. The system for prevention of addiction and non-patient treatment of addicts is able to keep addicts in treatment longer and longer. During the course of 2007, there were 7000 464 people who had been treated for the first time, making up about 23.8%. The total number of drug addicts treated in 2007 increased by 0.5%, showing that there was a stabilisation of the number of treated subjects and the proportion of new subjects in the system of treatment of addicts continued to decrease as in 2006 it was around 26.9%. Because of the abuse of opiates during 2007 there were 5 thousand 703 people who were first treated for the first time, which is 14%, and so far the lowest proportion of newly arrived opiates users of all those who took opiates for certain years. In 2007 a very slight increase in the number of people treated for opiates of 2% was observed compared to 2006. Data show that among treated subjects there are still the most opiate addicts, which is 76% and then due to the abuse of cannabinoids is about 13.3%. The incidence of treatment due to opiate abuse continues to increase, but while the remaining funds were less represented, an increase in treatment was reported due to cocaine abuse and 147 people were treated in 2007 which was an increase of as much as 35% compared to 2006. Same as the person with the stimulative means. Opiate addicts remain in the treatment system longer and cocaine addicts and psychostimulators are coming in. A thousand 34 people were treated in hospital health institutions in 2007. According to data, the number of people treated for 100,000 from 15 to 64 in certain counties in the Republic of Croatia is the most registered in Zadar County. For the Republic of Croatia, the rate is 250.3 treated persons per 100,000 adults. In Zadar 599. Istarska followed with 532 and the city of Zagreb with 444 persons. The mean age of first taking any drug addiction is 15.9 and the average age of first heroin is 20 years. While the mean age of intravenous administration is 20.8 years. The average age of first reporting for treatment is 25.7 years. The largest person in the age group is 25 to 29 years, and given the gender, the majority of men. The age analysis showed an increase in the average age of treated subjects in relation to the working status of treated addicts from a total of 7464 treated subjects. They're 37.2% unemployed. Unfortunately, in 2007, 150 people died due to drug use, a 38.8% increase compared to 2006. As earlier years when registering at the Croatian Institute of Public Health treated with psychoactive and intoxicating drugs were said to have not been applied to any actual increase in the rate of increasing registration, and where we have practically had a steady increase until this report, where only in this report the number of registered drug addicts can be expected to be stabilised in some way, i.e. in a proportional proportion to the actual state and at this point, as regards the number of persons killed as a consequence of drug use, is also expected to be at one stage of the records, because the increase in the number of deaths is practically artificially increased due to increasing cooperation in the system of data collection and cooperation not only between the Ministry of the Interior and the Croatian Institute of Public Health but also the hospital system and other factors accompanying the patients, which has led to death as a consequence of taking intoxic drugs. The number of newly arrived addicts in the treatment communities in 2007 decreased by 15% compared to 2006. However, the increase in the number of drug addicts directed abroad in 2007 was 74%. During 2007, 6546 people were seized in total, representing a reduction from 2006 to 7%, noting that a significant shift in the quantities of seized intoxicated cocaine and LSD was achieved. During 2006, a total of 7952 crimes related to the abuse and smuggling of intoxicating drugs or 10.80% of the total number of criminal offences reported in the territory of the Republic of Croatia were recorded, almost at the same level as the previous year. 5679 persons were reported for the offences of the criminal nature concerned during 2007. In 2007, 3971 people were sentenced, making almost 19% more than in 2006. The basic form of this crime was reported in 2007 by 20% more persons than in 2006, and 2.5% more than in 2006 were charged with the modality of the crime, ending the years-long decline in the number of charges. For the crime of drug possession, 13.7% of more people were convicted, and the decline in the number of convictions from 2004 to 2006 was 10% annually. The analysis of the above-mentioned criminal offence shows that the number of minors reported for that crime is behind the property delicacies and crimes against life and the body. During 2007, 280 minors were reported for all crime modes, and a fall in juvenile crime related to the abuse of 40 percent intoxicating drugs was observed, and even 77% of minors were reported to be the most mild form of this crime, i.e. for the possession of drugs for their own use. The number of drug addicts with or without express treatment was referred to the execution of prison sentences over the last 10 years continuously growing, and was the same in 2007 at 1056, 22% more than in 2006. The criminal offence of drug abuse with a minimum deviation corresponds to the situation of previous reporting periods, so we can conclude that in the area of drug crime in recent years, there have been no greater positive but negative shifts. In the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the Programme for the Prevention and Prevention of Drug Abuse, i.e. the implementation of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and Action Plan was spent in 2006, totalling €66.5 million in 2007 compared to €63 million spent, with an increase of 4% compared to 2005 when €49.7 million was spent by €33.6%. During 2007, with the support of the CARD and PHARE projects, the Resord Ministry of County and NGOs, better coordination has been ensured between all relevant national and local holders of drug abuse activities, and capacities in the Republic of Croatia have been observed and networks of different programmes are planned to continue to develop at local level and to coordinate activities in the area of drug abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19588	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Dear Andrija Hebrang, Committee on Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19589	Thank you very much. The Health and Social Care Committee discussed the report as a home working body. In the debate followed by the board members, they supported the report, which is largely exhaustive and gives an accurate picture of the situation and the measures taken to combat drug abuse. It is important to stress that a quality report is the result of better coordination of all holders of different activities and measures at national and local level, greater efficiency of the system as a whole and improvement of the system of records. Drug trafficking is one of the most productive forms of organised crime activity that adapts to the economic situation in the country. Therefore, drug supply has increased in the Republic of Croatia, and at a lower price than in neighbouring countries, its availability and trend of drug consumption have increased. Special concern is the constant growth, the constant increase in deaths associated with drug abuse. In the report, some indicators point to the true state of the existing things, unlike previous reports, when the drug tracking record has not yet been consistent with the existing modern needs. The Croatian Institute for Public Health and the County Institute for Public Health plays a particularly positive role in this. For the purpose of monitoring and assessing the situation in the Republic of Croatia, it would be useful to compare the results of the epidemiological services with the situation in other countries in the report. Despite a number of preventive and educational activities carried out in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary, in the opinion of the board members, to strengthen prevention since preschool age through programmes aimed at healthy lifestyles and drug toxicity education. In order to implement quality prevention, the number of employees in local self-government units working on this issue should be increased. In the Patronary Care system, it is thought that members of the Committee of Space to engage healthcare professionals to warn about drug toxicity at the earliest age of life. After extensive discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the next conclusion, the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19590	Thank you. And I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19591	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian People's Party Club will support the adoption of this report, however, we would like to point to several elements that are alarming, several messages containing this report that must not be turned around and should not be ignored. In 2007, 7464 people aged 15 to 64 were treated for addiction and, as we have heard before, the most represented addicts were opiates, over 5700 of them, while 1779 people first entered the treatment system. It's a positive indicator that speaks of a reduction in the number of this group by 11%. According to these data, as many as 76.4% of treated subjects were treated for heroin addiction. Because of its dependence on marijuana 13.3%, while the remaining funds are less represented. What we are particularly concerned about is the fact that 150 deaths that caused the use of intoxicating drugs in 2007, as many as 103 people, were overdosed. 103 people, that's four classes. The total number of people treated for addiction in the register of persons treated with drug abuse of the Croatian Institute of Public Health has risen to 25720 people. Twenty-five thousand people. That number refers to all forms of treatment, therefore both hospital and non-patient, therapeutic and other. It is important to know about the age of addicts who are usually almost 27% from 25 to 29 years of age, then 30 to 34 years of age, which is slightly less than 25%. Of the nearly 1300 women, more than 27% were between 25 and 29 years of age and 24% between 20 and 24 years of age. So almost 50% of women are registered up to 29 years old. The highest number of drug addicts being treated are methadone and buprenorphine, i.e. medicinal products with subbutex and suboxone, which are very often converted by addicts, if they are able to resist further drug use in a chronically ill patient. It is very good that clinical guidelines have been made for the pharmacotherapy of opiate addicts, but as such therapy results in the creation of conditions that require taking medicines rarely throughout our lives, we believe that more should be encouraged to refer addicts to therapeutic communities that are more effective and proven cheaper. The number of people who were in the treatment communities in 2007 compared to 2005 increased by slightly more than 100 people and the number of people treated increased from 6668 to 7464. When we compare that 7464 number to that of 1367 people who were in the treatment communities, we think it's too small. It seems to us that it is the opinion and the Committee for the Prevention of Drug Abuse because it says that more attention should be paid to the treatment communities and finally passed a law that will regulate their functioning. It was a challenge whether such a law would be in line with the acquis of the European Union and the analysis shows that it would certainly not be in collegiate and that it would certainly be easier to pass such a law than to amend a whole series of other legislations as proposed. What makes the treatment communities a better solution is the possibility to organize during treatment requalification, various forms of training for the work and normal functioning of rehabilitated former addicts in later life in society outside the therapeutic community. That treatment at the hospital doesn't provide. We also believe that it is necessary to establish a controlled incentive system for the employment of cured and rehabilitated former addicts and to remove the Stigma from them. What concerns us are the data according to the MUP reports that in the last year of nearly 2,000 people who were offered a drug test in traffic, 333 people refused to test themselves with a preliminary test device, 542 people refused to give a blood or urine sample. This is an extremely large percentage and he testifies not so much in mistrust in the method, but in an arrogant relationship that should be known to end. So more than 870 people in the last year refused to be tested in traffic and were found to be the cause of drug exposure. What also concerns us are data from this report concerning the quantities of drug seized from members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. See page 77 of this chart that says that over 4 kilograms of marijuana last year was seized by members of the Armed Forces, and a year earlier it was just over half a kilo. So eight times as many, and the question is, what does that mean? Whether the use of intoxicating drugs in the Armed Forces is increasing or perhaps it is more rigorous control that tells us again that probably if there has been no increase, that so far the use of intoxicating drugs in the Croatian military has actually been out of control and eight times larger than what we have seen through the controls. Over four kilos of marijuana and about 20 lbs of other drugs in the Armed Forces. Furthermore, you should see what happens in prisons, that drugs are dealt and used in prisons notorna is the thing, it's not the specifics of our prison system alone, but what worries is that the number of people in prisons that are addicts is growing rapidly. Take a look at page 81 of this table, and you will see that only 92 prisoners who received a security measure for the use of intoxicating drugs 10 years ago, and that number has risen to almost 2600 in 10 years. Equally, the number of those who have not been given a security measure has risen from 193 to 3534. The total ratio is 97. 285, 2007. 1056. This means that at this time in Croatian prisons we have more than a thousand people who are registered as drug addicts. See what the display looks like on the next page that is even worse, because it parses this same information. But it's also said in Table 45 that 3835 people were tested and that there were nearly 500, 458 people. So at 3800 tested over 450 is positive. It is obvious that in Croatian prisons insufficiently care is given to the permeability of channels that bring psychoactive drugs. This report shows that the age limit for the first time taking any drug has dropped to 15.9 years. It's an alarming data, because it means that a lot more attention should be paid to prevention at the earliest age, I wouldn't say perhaps in preschool education as concluded by the Health Committee, but certainly in primary school. What can a preschool child possibly understand about this? However, what bothers us is the practice by which these preventive programmes are often implemented or based on principles that are underrated by children and young people. It comes from the fact that they don't know anything about it, so then the winged drug type is evil, they sound ridiculous. Today, young people, children of an early childhood are far more informed than the average citizen. The media available to them including the Internet has allowed them to know much more rarely than the educators themselves. Therefore, an emphasis should not be placed on the fact that they know nothing about it but certainly point to negative effects. So to replace this surface approach with a motivational approach, what's most important in the prevention system is motivation. Motivation to do the right thing, i.e. to avoid risky behavior. A large part of the money was spent on printing flyers, brochures, stamping shirts and cups. I'm not sure that one kuna that was so spent saved, and one of these 103 lives was overdosed, I'm not sure anyone was rejected by drug abuse. Even some random patterns suggest that the schools in which these programs were formally implemented were actually carried out on purpose, and where children did not understand or refer to what they heard so that they were approached with a mockery and in some way with prejudice that they needed to be taught basic things. It is necessary to work on strategies to remove risk factors associated with the development of addictions such as the emergence of aggressive forms of behaviour in children and youth that we have witnessed in recent years, in recent months, escalating. Then lack of parental care, poor family relations, the presence of family and neighborhood addiction, and poverty. It is therefore necessary to introduce compulsory education for all teachers, professors, educators and other persons employed in educational institutions in order to learn to recognise the existence of those factors and to take measures to remove or mitigate them that are available to them. What I would like to say in the end is that it is not good that there is no protocol or guidance in Croatia that should ensure the safe work of healthcare professionals with addicts, especially those who are exposed to other diseases, as well as infectious diseases, in the reception of emergency addicts, which is more important if it is considered that addicts are a risk group for HIV, hepatitis B and C and other blood transmitted diseases. And in the end, it didn't sound right to the public what the former head of the government's office said...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19592	I want you to bring the MP to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19593	Here's just one sentence. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The head of the office left because the government had not given her open support, and there was an open break with the Ministry of Health. At least that's what she said in public. That's not good, and we hope that this problem will be solved. And that he will.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19594	Thank you. Your Honor, I thank you. Your time is up. Don't. That's the way it's supposed to be. ... No, I don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When you came here. Thank you very much. Don't make a problem about what doesn't need to be a problem. We're moving on to the clubs. Dear representative on behalf of the IDS club, distinguished representative Marin Brkarić. Excuse me, we have a correction. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't mind if you moved on, but my colleague, Beus Richembergh, said a sentence that I hope was spoken by mistake, a lapus. You said that the promotional action taken to protect people from all the harmful consequences did not help any of the overdoses. You understand? So you wouldn't. Of course, that claim is incorrect, because we can't tell what the results of this action have been achieved, and they refer to those who certainly stayed alive because they stopped taking drugs. Therefore, it is necessary to correct this allegation to point out in a certain way the importance of prevention in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19596	Dear Representative Marin Brkarić, on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19597	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will try very briefly to say something about the very report on the implementation of the national strategy and the action plan to tackle intoxicating drugs for 2007. What I'm basically saying is that the report is good, but certainly the indicators of the report itself are not that good. The fact is that already in the introduction, 150 people died in 2007 because of drug abuse from overdose, i.e. drug-related diseases, which is 38.8% growth compared to 2006. The Secretary of State mentioned in part that there are more precise data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health and the Ministry of Interior, meaning one connection, but surely one part of it affects, means more quality data, but on the other hand, this 38.8% increase is certainly an alarm to see what to do and how more intensive, more quality access to implementation and national strategy and action plan. The fact is that out of these 150 deaths in 2007 23% were not recorded at all, so we can talk about that gray zone, meaning that not enough has been investigated, and all the data mentioned here about the number of registered treated persons or some smaller percentages of treated people who first entered the system in 2007 certainly do not have to, are not so precise since we know that it is the abuse of intoxicated drugs and that the record is always to say the extent to which the servants of the authorities can come, and that is the Croatian Institute of Public Health, or others who follow the problem. The same resulting from the report is an increased trend in drug consumption, increased supply and accessibility to young people in particular. And what is also worth mentioning is that the shifts are visible, particularly visible in the stable functioning of the OTC services in the counties, means in the system of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, or the County Institute for Public Health, that the shifts are visible in the work on the action plans of the county committees, means to combat drug abuse. The shifts are also visible in the framework of a network of healthy cities, healthy counties, other associations, within the therapeutic community itself, which the truth has very little, only 9 in the entire Republic of Croatia. And what I would particularly say is that the IDS club will support all those measures that go towards strengthening prevention, but also to raising the quality of human and institutional further resources. The IDS Club also considers it necessary to provide additional financial resources in the prevention or treatment of addiction diseases, but also in the social reintegration itself necessary for persons undergoing treatment. We also consider it necessary to conduct one promotion of healthy lifestyles, especially in educational institutions, with the emphasis of harmfulness and the consequences of drug abuse. We consider the necessary and better personnel and technical equipment of the police as a repressive device for detecting the criminality of intoxicating drugs, but above all, we stress prevention. And finally, I want to say that only by strengthening both human and institutional, but also by financial capacity with the synergy of local, regional and state institutions and institutions can achieve some more important shifts than they have achieved through this report, and it seems necessary that there should be one strong, I would also say sincere political will because without it we cannot expect more results. The IDS Club will support this 2007 report with the wish normally that all indicators and all trends that talk about drug abuse, the number of addicts, but also the need for social reintegration in the coming period mean repairs for 2008 as well, and I think that we can all do so together with additional funding, with additional personnel capacity and additional I would say institutional but also non-institutional forms of fighting with this so to say disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19598	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19599	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report for the 2007 National Strategy and Action Plan to combat the use of intoxicating drugs. It should be said that Croatia has made a major step in this area over the last few years, simply because it is located on a very thorny, I would say the terrain, which means it is on the way so-called. The "Balkan Route" from manufacturers to users in the west and on that route, of course, drugs are very large. On the other hand, as those who collect financial benefits from drug trafficking follow economic movements, they have also followed this global crisis by reducing the prices of drug intoxication, so it becomes more accessible in times of economic crisis, and this is an important moment in which we are discussing this report. The Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Office for the Control and Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, together with the Resolute Ministry of Health, then others, adopted the National Strategy 2006 to 2012 and the Action Plan by 2009. According to this organization and the anti-drug system is complex, it is a system in which we have networked and of course an office as a headquarters institution and several resolution ministries, which is the most important and local level of the county, cities and municipalities. In the county there are county committees, prevention centres, outpatient treatment centres, county public health institutions, then health and social institutions, and all of them together implement programmes according to the action plan that this is about. This action programme and these programmes are also very complex and therefore this report is layered and can be analysed in several aspects. So, in this report, we can see addiction prevention programmes, we can see early detection programs, then a system of extra-patient treatment, a system of hospital treatment, the consequences of death, unfortunately, rehabilitation and social integration of addicts. What should be pointed out from this report is that the report shows good dynamics about all these areas compared to earlier years, with one small observation that I also made on behalf of the Committee, which is that it would be very useful to compare all indicators that are very comprehensive and precise here with indicators from European countries and countries of the region to see where we are in this ratio. The record shows that in the 24 thousand addicts who entered the system through this time until the end of 2006, 24 thousand addicts took all possible prevention measures, later treatment all the way to rehabilitation, and that dynamics are shown to be somewhat optimistic. Namely, the first treatment that entered the system for this reporting period in 2007 was 11% less than the previous year or more specifically in 2006 entered the system for the first time in the treatment of 2,000 people and in 2007 a thousand 779. It is also a good indicator of the proportion of new treated to the total number of treated, we follow the reduction of the proportions of newly treated in the total number of treated patients, so in the 2007 reporting period, the minimum of all previous periods of 23.8% is the share of newly treated, and this is the smallest increase so far and it is the smallest increase of all periods that we have recorded so far. As for the type of intoxicating drugs, of course, the first too powerful, the number of opiates treated increased by a slight 2% from 5 thousand to 5 thousand 803, and the proportion of opiate addiction in total, is also in a slight increase from 75.5% to 76.4%, therefore there is a redistribution as to the type of intoxicating drugs. The age remains an average between 29 and 30 years, it does not change, although the lowest age limit unfortunately is increasing, and neither does the ratio of men and women change, it is approximately equal in recent years. It's an interesting analysis by county, I point out, as an example, of a very good analytical record of everything that's going on. Zadar County has taken the primate from Istria, the number of people treated for 100,000 599, in Istria 532, followed by the City of Zagreb, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, then Sibenik-Kninska, Primorje-Gorskiska, that is the first six per largest number of people treated, and when compared to the number treated, according to the number treated in non-pain institutions, then we see certain irregularities. Namely, all of these counties that are headed are somewhere above 8% treated in outside hospital institutions, a system that needs to be taken over as many addicts as possible, the City of Zagreb has a double number of more than 16%, but two counties with a high number of addicts, which are Dubrovnik-Neretva and Sibenik-Kninska only have 3%, or 3.6% treated in excess of hospital conditions, so it should be seen why this disproportionately, whether this problem is organisational or financial, or there is some third problem that cannot be found from these tables. As far as drug use is concerned, there is still an intravenous way of taking with all side effects and diseases. So 76% of consumers use this method of taking. In the analysis of the cause for first use which can be very significant, we see that the impact of society or partners is most common together with curiosity. That's two leading causes. It takes 12% out of the party for the first time, under the influence of peers and partners 28% and curiosity 24%. What shows is that in education and enlightenment a good result has been achieved, because because of the ignorance of drug toxicity, it takes only 1.4% of consumers for the first time, which means that knowledge is good, but not respecting the other factors that I mentioned earlier is the cause of the first drug use. As far as the death toll is concerned, it is also noted in the opening part of the secretary of state and in the debate. The number of 150 died is a major increase in 2007 which is an increase of as much as 28%, but as we have heard very probably not because of an objectively higher number of deaths, but because of better, more accurate and clearer records that are now being conducted at county levels in the county public health institutions, so it is likely that the record and its quality is due to such an increase. The overdose with opiates and heroin is again leading by 25 and 27%, respectively, with Metadone 13% and various other accompanying diseases such as hepatitis, heart decompensation, sepsis caused death in 20% of drug deaths. I'm not going to talk about the data for the drivers that my colleague mentioned earlier but it's actually an amazing fact that 45% of the drivers who have been tested are positive for drugs with a large number of those who have refused. So that number is actually much bigger. Of course, it is not a random pattern, but it is a test on drivers who, by their behavior, have shown suspicion that they have been drugged. So it's not a random sample because then it would be a scary data, but it's like this by warning. It means that a large number of drug drivers threaten the lives of everyone in daily road traffic. There, perhaps, it is commendable that all the counties received a test device and the largest number of counties received them just in 1.1.2007 and the results show how justified the investment was. There are two other counties that have not had such a device in Krapina-Zagorska and Virovitica-Podravska until the report has been written, so it is certainly necessary to hurry up with the equipment and these county testing devices because it is certainly the simplest and very reliable indicator of drug use. Clearly, the next 542 drivers were given urine and blood. These are the data we have to worry about and see what happened to them after such a rejection. As for repression against traffickers and drug users, the number of reports in the reporting year has increased. In 2006, there were 4000 900 applications, in 2007 there were 6 thousand 26 applications, which is an increase of 23% indicating the quality of the work of competent institutions and also of the judiciary. The judiciary has increased the number of convicted by 19%, so from 3 thousand 339 to 3 thousand 971. As it is important to cut off these criminal chains the functioning of the authorities of repression and judicial authorities in the fight against drugs, we can see here in yesterday's indictment that USKOK raised against a group called the "column", under that code was conducted an entire investigation in which nine people earned a profit of 14m euros. So there really is no criminal mile that can make that much money in a short time. They've earned it by trade and laboratory cocaine dowry. How much tragic fate would follow that, of course, cannot be spoken of in a material sense or spoken of. It should be said that the report also mentions the total amount spent to implement the programme in 2007. So, from different sources, 66.5 million kunas, which one can say is enough or is not enough, but in any case, it is important to make sure that this amount is not reduced but in the future and increased. In the results, they could conclude that the Office for Drugs has carried out all its tasks, that it has implemented the CARDS programme to strengthen the capacities of the Republic of Croatia to combat drug trafficking and drug abuse, that it has developed two very important protocols, that is, the Protocol on the National Drug Information System, and the second Protocol on the Early Warning System in the event of the emergence of new psychoactive substances. It was also a successful co-operation with European institutions. I will mention the co-operation of the office with the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs, which has special weight due to our accession to the European Union. The European Centre has positively assessed the organisation and results achieved by the organisation in Croatia, but one small danger should be warned. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision at the end of 2007 to initiate the procedure for the signing of an agreement on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to equal membership of the European Centre. This is good, but with the entry into the European Centre, it stops financing externally and is based solely on the financing of its own resources, which should be taken into account, of course, when making the next budget for our office or for its department called the National Information Unit. As far as I know, there are only two employees in it so far, and that should certainly be further strengthened. Finally, the club accepts this report with a few small warnings. First, in order to see the comparisons of indicators with the surrounding countries and with the countries of the European Union, that they would like to see programmes implemented although the colleague disagrees, but the programmes in Europe are implemented already from kindergartens, so in preschool institutions, school institutions and later. So we'd like to see these programs and we'd like to see the implementation of the program at these levels. Finally, there are thousands of senior nurses in Croatia who could certainly be easily involved in all these programmes because they are on the ground daily and in contact with all social layers. Finally, we accept this report and expect it to continue with this trend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19600	On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19601	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the implementation of the national strategy and the action plan to combat the use of intoxicating drugs indicates how much treatment was actually treated and that is the number of 7000 464 and also of that number of 779 people was first treated. An increase from 7% to 2006 is evident. I'm talking about the register of persons treated for abuse of psychoactive substances. The report also shows that all resolution ministries have actively implemented the measures of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat the abuse of intoxicating drugs and that there is also a clear steady functioning of the outpatient treatment services. Unfortunately, however, there is an increase in the number of addicts year by year. Data also show that among the treated are the most people who come for treatment for use, the abuse of opiates we have heard from former colleagues. An alarming increase in deaths compared to 2006 is approximately 38.8% of the increase so that in 2007, 150 people were associated with drug abuse. It is often stated as a reason for increasing the number of deaths, i.e. increasing quality cooperation in the data collection system, as well as the start of cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Croatian Institute of Public Health. As for taking or taking the data limit in 2007 we see that the first time was 15 or 9 years old. Then the first heroin intake at 20 years of age, and the first intravenous heroin intake from less than one year later and 20.8 years later, while the average age of arrival for treatment of heroin addicts was 25.7 years. This shows that from the first experimentation to the arrival of treatment it is approximately inadmissible for 10 years and this report shows that the priority is to actually improve the entry of heroin addicts into the treatment programme. He's also trying to keep these heroin addicts in treatment. There's a well located problem that exists in practice. We can say that this report is quite exhaustive, too. That there's a lot of concrete data except for schools that present essentially the situation in schools. There are positive movements in the system of working with associations. They are visible and smaller, they have clear ideas where weak places to work on promotion. Then, then the primary, however, primary prevention in the part of school prevention programs is the worst link in this problem. We believe that the best prevention is early prevention. The success of prevention and treatment of addiction is precisely proportional to the time when intervention and treatment are started. That is why we too advocate that preventive programs should begin as early as possible from kindergartens. In kindergartens, we should not talk about drugs as drugs, drug information, but we can learn social skills or educational measures from kindergartens. It is known in fact that the largest number of drug addicts took about 15 to 16 years of age, between 15 and 16 years of age and a large number of experimentators are already present at school and school as an institution that directs children to treatment does not appear in the report. Very often, nor in practice, which points to the fact that schools, although declaringly implementing school preventive programmes, have little cooperation with other institutions especially when considering that school medicine, which as well as the Department of Prevention of Dependence in Schools, is present at school and that it implements preventive measures of child health, which includes "screening" in its composition on the consumption of addiction funds. In practice, the school even covers up incidents of a child’s drinking type and thus stops or prevents intervention. One reason is, although there are various protocols that are not clear. That children’s rights are often incompatible with the law, so it happens that those who should intervene most often decide not to expose themselves to inconveniences, attacks by parents, threats and so on. Substitutive pharmacotherapy guidelines are prescribed, but there is no implementation control system, so in practice guidelines are not implemented in the way they should produce results because of the ones for which they have been adopted. The question is whether the guidelines are governed by the laws governing measures in the health care system. For example, diluting Methadone into juice or crumbling tablets is a change in the original pharmaceutical preparations, which is contrary to the law. Although the "screening" measure, that is, secondary prevention, is part of the preventive measures, few schools that have installed their acts in the procedure of cooperation with public health services, which would have put this measure, such as testing children on psychoactive means, into operation in a way that will in fact fully protect children's interests and comply with the law. We also have an objection to, say, the data on associations. It's visible that they've only delivered their data to 13 associations. How many were funded in 2007? We wonder if all the financed associations have provided data since it has been shown in practice that some associations are prone to writing a number of services and users of real numbers, have they finally achieved or have they committed to supplying data to public health institutions in accordance with the law? Better cooperation is necessary for the reason that part of the addict is both in the health care system and in NGOs. The overall implementation of the National Strategy to combat drug abuse is of paramount importance to the implementation of measures and activities aimed at preventing the abuse of intoxicating drugs at local level both at the level of the county and at the level of cities and other units of local self-government. We heard earlier that there were county commissions and counselling offices and departments. I'll mention, say, the Department of Prevention and Extensive Treatment of Dependence in Dubrovnik-Neretvania County. Yes, in fact, the department's work is carried out through 7 consultants that have been deployed so that as much as possible can be made available to all users on cities throughout our county. All consultants actually carry out activities, basic activities, which are the implementation and supervision of the substitution programme and psychotherapy and advisory work with drug consummations and their families. It shall also be tested for the presence of intoxicating drugs in the urine as an integral part of the examination in all the facilities or facilities. In addition to advisory work, family counselling is also held regularly, advisory treatments that mark simultaneous treatment with addicts and members of his family and social interventions. Helping addicts, addicts to solve various social problems. Cooperation with different associations dealing with addiction problems continues to take place in the area of the entire county. However, as I have stated before and here there is always a problem of a very common failure to comply with legal obligations by associations, i.e. the delivery of information on action addicts. Then there's the co-operation of these centers with the state's attorney's office. Namely, all minors and minors up to 21 years of age if they are caught in the criminal offence of possession of intoxicating drugs are directed to these department employees to carry out advisory work, test on intoxicating drugs in the urine, and include parents in treatment, and sometimes contact with school staff. The program usually takes 6 months and if a person regularly takes it, he regularly comes and cooperates is released from treatment. The report on treatment shall be re-sent to the State's attorney-general who shall continue to decide on a particular case. I'd still like to give you a reason why kids actually take drugs. So from these reports, especially in Dubrovnik, the main reason for the start of experimentation is to say curiosity, according to peer influence so far, which actually tells us about the need for preventive work, about the need to learn social skills. I would also say that it is very important as well as when the local community recognises addiction as a problem, and that as a community earlier responds to this phenomenon. In this case, parents will learn and recognize their child’s addiction problems earlier, thus developing treatment earlier. We can conclude that this report shows that much has been done and that there is a need to work even more on the coordination of all state bodies and services and NGOs in the fight against addiction, especially in the area of prevention. And I hope that whoever's head of the office, and we don't know who's head of the office is going to have more cooperation, or more support from both the Ministry of Health and the Government in general, because that was exactly the reason why it is, which is why it states Miss Bernardica that she actually left the head of that government office. The SDP club adopts, in fact, the SDP club accepts this report with the fact that we can never say that it's enough to work on this. We need to do more, we need to work together and start prevention. We stress actually prevention, starting as early as possible with learning social skills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19602	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19603	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State and gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. This report in front of us is really very comprehensive, very comprehensive, comprehensive, analytical and how someone said dynamically because it compares the movement of addiction, the suppression of addiction compared to 2006, 2007. We are witnessing these days that given the current developments in the Republic of Croatia, here is to mention anti-mafia laws, to mention the Croatian FBI. If we mention anti-mafia laws and the Croatian FBI, in any case, that part, one part of the work of both of these institutions, that is, the law, in any case, goes into this area, that is, the repressive part of that part of this report. The figures here are 25674 people registered as addicts. 7,000 and something treated during the year, 150 unfortunately dead, young lives with those 116 motorists in traffic and a series of others who died, young people in almost 50% in car accidents with other motor vehicles really make one dramatic, alarming figure with so many dead and actually so many disabled. Because we know well how heroin addiction ends, and I think this is, this number of 25,000 and 7,000 treated last year is just the tip of the iceberg, and the laws of physics say that one tenth of the dream is above the water, and nine tenths of the ice santa is underwater. That's what those who deal with treatment are well aware of either in prevention, or in curative treatment of addiction. We know well all of us if we were to be honest with each other if we were to be honest or how someone said the other day in the depth of our soul we know in our own, so in our family closer, further or in the neighborhood of a person who and parents who torture and suffer with addicts in their families, if we were to be honest with ourselves. This report lists all of them, all those institutions, ministries and all those who deal with drug control and, to say and statistically speaking, give statistical reports that are very exhaustive. Therefore, this mentions the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Ministry of Science, Education, Sports, Family and Defence, Finance, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Justice, Foreign Affairs, etc. I'm afraid what the people say is "a big, fat, fat baby." But indeed perhaps if we are already setting up a Croatian FBI one such evil that brings, which poisons the substance of a nation, one whole nation, one whole state should take it really seriously, especially what the data in this report says about, so to speak of the catastrophic figures of 150 dead, the 103 that have received so-called. Overshot, so she was hyperdosed and died directly by injection of heroin most often, one cocaine. It might be good that this is why parts of all these offices of the ministry and others agree to establish really one, as he was called agency, office, center, department or not, which would really be affected by this modern evil of the Croatian state that poisons children from 15 and before and at an earlier age, from 15 and at an earlier age. We have examples, and we all see it when we go past elementary schools, some of which goes uninterested to drug dealers, or as Mr. Hebrang said drug dealers stand in front of schoolyards and in the first act they offer free joints, light intoxicating drugs that someone would like to legalise long ago, is whether, and after how it goes alone, to say addiction and disease with easy intoxicating drugs is going to heroin, and intravenous heroin administration is associated with an increased incidence or frequency of hepatitis b, c, AIDS and everything that goes with it. Anyway, you see, here someone was talking about prevention before me, colleague Shimac-Bonačić, whether or not, of kindergarten prevention. And I'd ask myself if any schools, come kindergarten doesn't have to maybe, but one school, a primary school invited parents and hired experts and from the area of addiction to hand over parents to primary school or high school children what it looks like to be an addict in the family. It's usually very late to recognize him. Few parents who recognize a child addict in a family. Can we take such measures that by some kind of act, we can legally commit schools and eight-year-olds to say that they must educate parents on how to identify the child of an addict in the family. That's very important. Family is the foundation of society. We have here in the statistics that they reported the other one, that she reported the hospital, that he reported this one, that he reported that one, but it's important that parents recognize the addict in the family. Now you've disturbed me a little bit, but good. When it comes to the repressive apparatus, so on police and judicial reports, I welcome the increased effectiveness of those who have been accused of drug trafficking and over whom the punishment has been imposed, and if we see a good part of the paroled, conditionalally convicted, is it, therefore, not behind bars, although I would like to wish they were. I wouldn't want to be so drastic about assessing repression or supporting something Malaysian, but anyone who flew a plane to Malaysia had to sign a statement that they would be subject to Malaysian laws regarding the state of Malaysia's legal regulations. I know that there is a death penalty, we all know that the death penalty for any use or drug dealing, but I think that our repressive apparatus, and including that proposal that I was talking about in the opening part, is at first, so this anti-mafian law of the Croatian FBI, that we agree here in the Assembly, and that we consider it to be the most severe degree of crime that deserves the greatest punishment because we will have the support of all those parents, all of these 26,000 who are registered, so multiply it by the number of parents times two, or relatives, and we will see what that number would certainly be for the drastic punishments of those who have brought their children into a position to be addicts and who have to deal with their whole lives, what it is to have an addict in a family, a child addict. It's not, maybe I'm too emotional in here, maybe I'm not talking about this data, you all said it. So I'm saying I accept this report as really exhaustive, extensively, I've never read a good report like this about it, but I'm also warning that we need to be smarter, even sharper about the repressive part of the apparatus and, in any case, give everything to that prevention that I've talked about to train both parents and everyone else to reduce this evil as much as we can. We can't run away from that, unfortunately, because it looks like the world's trend and the world's drug mafia, drug cartels and everyone else is stronger than all of us, but the Croatian state and we here if we want to have instruments like someone said tools and we have the means to contain it maximumly. When I talk about the funds, then here I saw on the last page 141 of the funding spent from the state budget for the year 2007 for the implementation of the resociation project and you see, says the Croatian Employment Institute totaled 465 thousand kuna. If we divide that by the number of 7 grand that drug addicts are treated, then it's 65 kuna per drug addict. 65 kuna per drug addict. I know it's not the only means of resociation in this, but this item is really this noticeably small and I have to point it out. Or the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Department of Social Welfare 15656 kuna in total for 2007. Mostly the HDSSB club will, as someone said earlier, support this report, adopt this report and as I have already praised the so-called, but I am giving these suggestions to be even more rigorous in the sense of repression in the future, and in terms of prevention, even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19604	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Before that, I would just like to say that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure, timed out for a 10 minute hearing, at 18 o'clock. First in an individual debate, distinguished representative Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19605	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's from this report that's already been said in the debates, a lot of this data, I'd single out, I wouldn't want to maybe repeat all the data, I'd just set out a few things that I think is necessary. We see that in recent years in the Republic of Croatia, the supply and availability of drugs has increased, leading to an increase in the trend of drug consumption, especially among young people, despite the intense development of new programmes, the reduction of demand and drug supply. In 2007, according to the state of prevalence of drug abuse and rates of treated addicts to 100 thousand residents were most reported in Zadar County, then in Istria followed by the City of Zagreb, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Sibenik-Kninska, Primorje-Gorskiska and Split-Dalmatia while the other counties were below Croatian average. The Ministry of Prevention and Hospital Treatment of Dependence, which provides data on the treatment of persons in the Croatian Institute of Public Health, operates in all counties at the Institute of Public Health. Now I'd like to say something about these therapeutic communities and associations dealing with the prevention of drug abuse. In the Republic of Croatia, there are nine therapeutic communities with 33 therapeutic houses operating and operating as NGOs and providing treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation to drug addicts, as associations or religious communities as part of humanitarian activities or as homes of social care for addicts. The total number of drug addicts on rehab and rehabilitation in the therapeutic communities increased in 2007 compared to 2005 and 2006, while the number of newly arrived addicts in 2007 decreased compared to 2005 and 2006. With regard to the number of drug addicts referred to rehabilitation and withdrawal abroad, the intervention of drug abuse organisations in 2007 has seen a significant increase compared to 2006. There is a need to invest additional efforts to improve the quality of services and programmes. It is an improvement in the quality of treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation in the therapeutic communities, professional and ethnic principles of working therein, and the creation of a network of therapeutic communities in the Republic of Croatia that will be part of the overall health and social system, care for drug addicts. And now I'd like to say something about two of these Dalmatian counties in my presentation. There has been a better co-operation of county committees and prevention centres for extra-patient treatment of addictions that are central institutions for extra-patient treatment and prevention of addiction, as well as a place for collecting data on treatment to addicts supplied to the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Since the mentioned centres of the main institution for the treatment and provision of assistance to drug addicts at local level, the data collected by the Croatian Institute of Public Health largely reflects the real state of spread of drug abuse across certain counties from the centres and county hospitals. As part of the implementation of the CARDS project titled "Strengthening the capacity of the Republic of Croatia to fight drug trafficking and drug abuse", the office collaborated with the counties in the implementation of various preventive programmes to be presented in this report and this report by two Dalmatian counties, that is Split-Dalmatia and Zadar County. Split-Dalmatia County is the largest local administration unit in the Republic of Croatia. The organisation that acts in the area of the prevention of drug abuse is the Institute of Public Health of Split-Dalmatia County within the framework of which the Office for Prevention of Diseases of Dependence, a counselling service for prevention of drug addiction in Makarska, a counselling service for prevention of addiction in the town of Hvar, a counselling service for prevention of addiction in Vrgorec, a counselling service for prevention of addiction in Imotski, a sports medicine service, a social care centre in the area of the county, a red cross counselling center, a Reto center, a community of "Cenakolo", a Community of Pope Ivana XXIII, a community of "Susret", "The New Life", a League for Prevention of Dependence, a San Patridano Association of Parents, "Help", "New Way" Sinj, "Life is "Be Yourself" Supetar, Association of Parents of Communities and Others in Other. Here's an indicator of how these associations have been organized lately and that there are more. A number of preventive programmes have also been implemented in the area of the county in order to educate students, parents and other entities involved in preschool, school system. Furthermore, working with risk groups is early detection and adequate treatment, helping to prevent the development and development of diseases. Social care centres have implemented measures to protect the family-law against the risk group of children and young people and risk families. The total number of addicts who were in the treatment of addiction prevention and non-patient treatment during 2007, was 902 of whom 776 people due to opiates problems and 26 due to addiction or experimentation with other drugs. In 2007, the same number of persons in the treatment of the service was recorded as in 2006. The number of treated opiate addicts was increased by 1.58% in 2007 compared to 2006 while the number of drug addicts treated was reduced by 6.6% for Zadar County, in the area of the county by the following health and social institutions, NGOs in the area of the prevention of drug abuse, Institute of Public Health of Zadar County, General Hospital Zadar, Psychological Hospital Ugljan, Centre for Children and Youth Zadar, Center for the PSP of Zadar County, Centre for Social Care, Croatian Red Cross, Zadar City Society, Caritas Zadar Archbishops, Association "Porat", Association of Abstinences for the Resociation and Other Associations. All activities initiated by Zadar County are primarily preventive but the county is trying to engage in secondary and tertiary prevention through co-financing of programmes from these areas. Public stands were maintained on the topic of current problems related to disease of addiction, rehabilitation, resociation and social reintegration of drug addicts. They're organized by school lectures for parents on how to recognize a child taking drugs. The work of the Committee for the Prevention of Drug Abuse also includes the Criminal Court in Zadar, the Office of the State's Attorney's Office in Zadar, and the Police Administration of Zadar. The defendants who are given a safeguard measure of withdrawal from dependence on the power of the solution are referred to the Public Health Office, the prevention service. In 2007, a number of newly registered addicts were recorded, but with a trend in reducing the number of newly registered opiates addicts, while the number of newly registered consumers of other psychoactive assets was increased. And now in connection with these spent funding for the implementation of the national programme. It is apparent that in 2007 compared to the previous year, the amount of resources in the state budget spent on implementing measures to combat drug abuse has been increased. Finally, the report on the implementation of the resociation project shows that it has begun to be implemented. ... Here, in the end, I fully accept that report. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19606	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19607	Dear Mr. Vice President, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am only going to stick to some highlights from this super report on 142 pages, so I'm just going to put an accent on it, because all the numbers are mostly already said. First of all, what I noticed was that all resolution ministries actively implemented the measures of the national strategy of the action plan to combat intoxicating drugs. The results are satisfactory, in particular in strengthening partnership cooperation and coordination among all measure holders in the national and local environment. The stable functioning of the prevention and non-patient treatment services in all counties is also observed, as it is seen to be increasingly successful in keeping drug addicts in treatment and providing them with an adequate form of treatment. What is also seen is better coordination and efficiency of the system as a whole, more active involvement of local administrations in the implementation of the prevention of drug abuse in their field and a greater number of preventive and educational activities carried out in the framework of the education system throughout Croatia. And as for the therapeutic communities, and thus NGOs dealing with the prevention of drug abuse, it is obvious that there is a need to invest additional efforts aimed at improving the quality of services and programmes, which are implemented in the non-governmental sector in order to achieve some of the key guidelines of the overall national policy on the prevention of drug abuse, resulting from the national strategy to combat drug abuse for 2006 to 2012. Among other things, this is primarily an improvement in the quality of treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation in therapeutic communities, professional and ethical principles of work in them, and the creation of a network of therapeutic communities in the Republic of Croatia, which will be part of the overall health and social care system for drug addicts. The difficulties in the implementation of the resociation project are partly linked to the implementation deadlines that began after its presentation in the public in May 2007, and partly to the lack of coordination and integration of institutions at local level, but also to their insufficient knowledge of the project. It is necessary, on a regional basis, to organise education for all holders involved in the implementation of the project so that all non-governmental organisation professionals involved in the implementation of the project can participate in these educations, and to establish partnership cooperation among the holders in the implementation of project activities. Only Mr. Grubisic, I'll try to correct him now. On page 136, I will read him a paragraph in which, he said, not enough funds were used, which says that according to the section evaluation, the office funded a total of 14 projects of associations that provided different forms of assistance in the resociation for 300 drug addicts, and the total spending of the state budget for 2007 for the implementation of the project from the office position were one million and 65 thousand kuna. Of course I'll support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19608	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19609	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Drug abuse is a complex medical and social phenomenon with a number of health, economic and social consequences for individuals, families and communities, and mortality among psychoactive drug users is several times greater than the same population of the same age. And just a few figures that illustrate this problem. So those 150 died in 2007. About 3 tonnes of heroin per year are in circulation on the Croatian market. A billion and 600 million kunas, the black market for traffic, 859 to 950 new heroin addicts are registered annually. So he really speaks for himself enough. Key documents that regulate this area, therefore, are this national strategy and action plan, but of course also therapeutic guidelines for methadone and buprenorphine treatment. And now this national strategy that is before us, in which much has been said there is really no need to repeat it, but it is certainly a register of this basic document that illustrates it, which, in some way since the 1980s, has been formed on the basis of applications of all, so from primary health care, hospitals and all institutions, etc., which today counts 25 thousand 720 registered, 7 thousand and 400 and... and 64 who have been treated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's necessary to mention that it's since '95. By 2007, a sedomergic number of patients treated, therefore, on this part of the treatment of addicts. It is also important to mention, a special place of course deserves treatment and prevention. Treatment is done in special hospital departments for the detoxification of hospital departments, but especially in the report the site is given outpatient treatment which is founded in county public health services and is indeed effective and in some way apostrophyd here. So it is very important and it is also important in that part to highlight the role of the therapeutic communities mentioned by counterpart Rosic, who also certainly have their role and function, which is very important. And perhaps just not to repeat myself in the end, it is necessary to safely mention the segment of the project to implement the resociation of addicts. In 2007, the government brought in this model regarding these addicts who carried out a particular treatment process, etc. Which, of course, at all those moments goes the way it goes. And what is said, therefore, is the report comprehensively exhaustive, but of course and objectively, and says we have to work more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19610	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A man can be addicted to a lot of things, unfortunately today we're talking about the most difficult addiction, and these are psychoactive drugs. We heard the dilemma we started in kindergarten. I'm in a group of those who think that prevention starts in kindergarten and ends up in a retirement home. Drugs are usually a way out without coming back. The man takes drugs, then the drug asks for drugs, and eventually the drug takes the man. Most of the time, that's how it happens. There's a lot of numbers in the report, and I'm not going to repeat them, but I'm going to point out two that I find very important. We heard that in 2007, the number of patients treated increased by 0.5%, while in 2006, the increase was 12% and then we heard different interpretations whether it was good or bad. I find that very bad. That means we haven't been able to capture enough addicts and include them in the treatment, because we need to know that one of the drug addicts reported to the system usually comes in four that are still on the street. So knowing this information, we still have a lot of addicts on the street who can't be satisfied and say that this year's data is less involved in the system. It's bad information, and we have to make sure it's bigger. The second data that is very worrying is that the first drug use is either at 15.9 years of age, experience with heroin for 20 years, and the average age of the first visit to treatment is 25.7 years. What does that mean? It means that we in the family community, at school for 10 years, are unable to recognize that we have an addict. So 10 years goes from first contact with drugs to start treatment. This is also in line with my previous conclusion that one of the main priorities of fighting addiction must be to include as many addicts as possible in the system of treatment as possible. It's certainly a big role for the family and there's what I have to do again for who knows which time, when we're finally going to have a health education from kindergarten through school, which should solve a lot of problems that we talked about today about how to conduct prevention. Because you know how prevention is conducted at this time in schools, so there are school prevention programs and they're one dot, once a year someone comes, gives a lecture and he's calm, he solves the prevention program, he solves school prevention in that part of the mandatory school prevention program. Therefore, it is bad and there should be a much better step for prevention to be more quality than it has been so far. Today, we haven't heard much about the damage reduction programmes that are extremely significant, so in part of the addicts we failed to agree to treat, damage reduction programmes need to be implemented and civil society is extremely important. I hope that the support that will go from this office through the funding of such projects will be better than it's ever been before. There were talk of treatment communities as many as I know 9 in Croatia, 33 houses. Absolutely not enough and of course what is the next priority in solving this problem. I especially want to point out that it's certainly a devastating fact that "Joint" is three times cheaper than juice in a bar. Therefore, the challenge of prevention is even greater and a particular reason for satisfaction is this new establishment of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, which will surely have a major task in its part to reduce the availability of drugs that is currently very, very, very, very accessible in any part of where young people move. As far as financial resources are concerned, we've heard that the amount that's planned is enough for some, for some it's not. So here I'm going to tell you that the city of Rijeka as an example of a quality programme in the city of Rijeka is implementing 17 preventive programmes, already provided for 2008 30% more funds for preventive programmes that need to enable more effective prevention of disease of addiction, so here I call on the Secretary of State to provide 30% more resources in their budget than they were planned this year and thus to contribute concretely to improving disease of addiction in the Republic of Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19612	Thank you. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19613	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, the report ahead of us is a statistical report. We have 141 pages of reports from where what's going on, where what's going on. However, the report sends some messages here that should be made public, and the message that the situation in the field of drug abuse is not as we would like, is not as good as could be read from the very reports we have. What you can see is that the Government's Office for Drug Control has been much more active in years ago and it has been seen on a public scene than we have seen in recent years, which speaks of his less work or perhaps a different way of working. I wouldn't judge about it, but the fact is that the office isn't as present as it should in itself. It is also evident that the principles of drug prevention have changed in some way. They also changed with the person who runs the office now, unlike the person who ran the office before, so perhaps you should see on that track whether it was good that it was done, or whether it was the way we should move on or go back to a different model that still gave some better and different results. In 2007, we record the largest number of deaths from the dead associated with the abuse of psychoactive drugs to yes. That's being commented, the reason is a better connection with the Ministry of the Interior I think a deep analysis would give us reasons why we keep track of more and more deaths every year. In 2002, we were 93, 2005. 115 a 2007. 150. Also, one of the causes of death is overdose, but in twenty percent of the cases we have other diseases. Here you should pay attention to the blood of the transmitted disease and all that you take heroin and addiction to the needle is carried in the health system. Here I find the report lacking the part that would talk about what and how the health care system treats addicts, or how these addicts have their own concerns. The further this report tells us that in therapy communities, it means communities and associations dealing with the management of drug abuse every day, each year we record fewer and fewer new arrivals. These communities themselves have a lot of addicts in their treatment, but we are recording a growing number of newly-accessed addicts in the system itself, and as far as I know, new treatment communities are not opening up. At the same time, there is an increasing number of addicts referred to abroad. All this says is that we are late in that system and what counterpart Jovanovic said that the increase of all 0.5% does not say that we are better than worse in the fact that a large number of addicts are running away from our system and remains drug-dependent, nor is he trying to quit drugs. One part of this report says that the time from the first time it was experimented with drugs until the first entry into treatment for ten years and that it was inadmissible for a long time. This is just saying that the system does not recognise the drug problem well so far and that, in addition to the educational and prevention campaigns that have been visible over the past years, NGOs and associations that have been dealing with the drug problem and trying to control drugs should also be strongly involved in this as well as in the prevention and prevention of drugs. For a time, I remember, there was a good action where in certain cities, NGOs shared syringes and needles in the initiative. This led to a drastic reduction in the number of hepatitis B addicts and hepatitis C addicts. The question of whether the campaign was experienced in Croatia, I think it was not but was limited to a number of cities. So, preventing co-operation with NGOs, strengthening the therapeutic communities and reducing state intervention in the system itself, except for a clearly repressive apparatus, will lead to the fact that the report will be better than it is today, so that I plead to consider the role of the Office of Drugs itself, preventive actions, and I would like to see as much as possible the NGO sector, which will lead to improvements and improvements in this part of the Croatian society as it is but I don't think we can close our eyes on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19614	And as your last esteemed representative, but that's only because he signed up last time. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19615	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Our relationship to this subject is strange. This report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament and is scheduled for the Government to be represented by Ms Kosor as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and its State Secretary, Stjepan Adanic, and that the Government is represented by Darko Milinović, Minister of Health and his State Secretary. Drug abuse is not just a health problem and even less a problem of intergenerational solidarity. The prime minister is pompously announcing war on organised crime and we here act as if drug abuse had nothing to do with organised crime. Well, when this report is being discussed here, there should be government and corporation, from the prime minister to the next. Where's the Home Secretary here? What's not the problem with the Ministry of the Interior drug abuse? For the government, obviously not because she doesn't even represent the minister, not even the secretary of state, she didn't predict that she was here to discuss and represent the government. That's why I say it's a weird relationship. It is also strange that we are now discussing this as the last item of the agenda today because it is obviously such an irrelevant problem for the government that it can be discussed in 18 hours and 30 minutes, instead of discussing this this morning with the presence of a larger number of ministers. Now, let's see if this report justifies the government's relationship to this subject. The first recital reads: "According to all indicators in recent years in the Republic of Croatia, there has been an increase in drug supply which has become more diverse and, at the same time, increased drug availability leading to an increased trend in drug consumption, especially among young people.". We can see from the first opening sentence that we are losing the battle. The first introductory phrase shows, says directly that the number of consumables is increasing especially among young people and that the offer has been increased. Let's see how the state answered that. For the Ministry of Interior whose representative does not appear here, a total of 7 thousand 952 crimes were recorded in 2007, 4.72% lower than in 2006. Be careful, on the one hand, in the opening statement, he says he has an increased offer and on the other hand says that the ministry recorded less crimes by 4.7%. In other words, the ministry in 2007 was by 4.72% worse than in 2006. It was more ineffective because you'd be careful that the drug supply went down so that if the number of criminal offences had been reported, it would have been logical. But not like this. The offer was increased and the crimes were 4.72% less recorded. He says that during 2007, you have a 7.1%) reduction on page 67. In the first sentence, we have an increased offer, and we have managed to confiscate 7.1% less. Well, if he hadn't been removed, these sentences would have been enough to ask for a shift, but the former minister. Let's see how it went with those reports. For the basic form of crime, it's possession. It's that possession for your own use. 20% more than in the previous year has been reported. And these, that, this mildest form actually represents 73.6% of all incriminations. That's what we were saying that statistics would come down to, or the efficiency of the system would be displayed through finding the consumables. 73.6. And then we said we need to know who our opponent is. If our opponents are consumers, addicts, then this is a phenomenal result. But if our opponents are organisers, drug dealers, drug lords, then this is a defeating result. But it seems to me that for this government, the opponents are consumers. So that's why they only brought in representatives of the health department. That's why there's no one here from the Home Office because drug lords for this government are no problem when it comes to drugs. For all forms of crime, sanctions have been imposed against 3 thousand 971 persons. But watch out for the most severe form is sentenced to a prison sentence of 45 people. That's the ratio. Three thousand 971 punished but only 45 for the most difficult form, and among those 45 there are no drug lords. That's the hardest form they're drug dealers. That's what the ministry managed to catch. When did it catch one from the top of the pyramid and, from the top of that pyramid in that chain, sell drugs? When? Who? When they caught Cwick, he got out of their police car. Because you're being punished by someone in that police force? No one. No one. Maybe they're being commended. Last one. Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Where is Minister Primorac? Because this isn't a problem with education. What about health care? Why hasn't that health education been introduced to schools already? Do you know how much they learn about addictions? All the addictions. So alcohol, nicotine, drugs. In one class, it was processed on half a page of the textbook. At one hour in the entire elementary school, I don't know the fifth or sixth grade. That's all primary school education. Well, health education had to tell me all eight years of elementary school about it, and it wasn't introduced because Minister Primorac couldn't agree on what form of sexual education he was working on? And it's been going on for years that he can't decide. And now we don't have health care at all, so we don't even study... So let's not be surprised we don't have an increase in the use of nicotine in teenagers, so tobacco products in boys by 5, with girls by 4%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, there's no need to be surprised. So what has Minister Primorac been doing all this time? We warn and warn. It's like he's sitting on his ears. You won't accept your responsibility. The responsibility that there is no health care at school is the responsibility of the Minister of the Primorac. Therefore, we do not have to be surprised at the increase, we do not have to wonder at the first sentence that there is an increased availability that has caused an increased trend of consumption especially among young people when we are treating this problem in this House by discussing it at 8.41 and when the Government refers to it by sending three State Secretarys here and that it is not a problem for organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19616	Thank you. This item of the agenda came in order as planned. Not before, not before or after... Your Honor, counsel. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now we're going to correct incorrect allegations. First of all, the distinguished representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19617	Thank you very much. In a number of incorrect allegations from fellow Stazic, who must have read this report backwards, I would have mentioned the following. The government did not say that there would be 5.6 representatives here only in the main session but also in the working bodies, and therefore the number of government representatives. It is incorrect that the government's relationship with this problem is bad because three representatives of the government are sitting here, which proves very much the attention that the government is putting on this problem. He says we lost the drug battle according to the first sentence where the drug use was said to have increased. Just the other way around. That first sentence and the good indicators that follow are showing that the government was doing well. And ultimately, the reduction in the number of seizures is not bad because, with a reduced number, the seized amount is higher than one year earlier. But you have to read the charts.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19618	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect quote is the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19619	... Why are you shutting me down? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's Mr. Representative in his debate on this statement said a series of inaccuracies and said there's no one here today from the Home Office. Is there no Minister of the Interior, and in this report, the question has actually been asked, is that where the consummations of the enemies are seen? That's not true. I'd tell you if it wasn't for the lack of the Home Secretary's arrival but I'll tell you and remind you what's the exact fact. And that, remember that in 2000, Minister of the Interior Sima Lucin presided over smoking joints in Ban Jelačić Square and it was these very consummations that prompted drug use as much as possible and the use of these drugs. That's true, and don't pose falsely to the public because we know what's under the skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19620	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19621	According to Article 209 of Minister Lucin, I did not mention the basic presentation, so I do not know how to correct anything about Minister Lucino that I did not mention. And forgive me, if we see the Minister of the Interior here, then my claim is truly incorrect. And if the Home Secretary isn't here, then this is an abuse of misappropriation of the wrong allegations, and I'd like to ask you to give the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19622	Thank you. Thank you. No throwing, please off the bench! Let's bring this debate to an end with dignity. I agree that the esteemed representative was not correcting the incorrect allegations as our Rules of Procedure foresees. However, Your Honor, which is true of correcting the incorrect allegations of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19624	Oh, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19625	When I have a replica, I lift a replica when I want to replicate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19626	We've got one, please don't get one from the bench! We have one replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko. And I'm sorry, another correction to the incorrect allegations by distinguished representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I had no intention of saying anything about this subject, because I thought it was a mistake or an incorrect quote from fellow Stazic for the first time was a lapus. So maybe I don't know. But repeat it two times, three times means you've made a mistake saying that you should introduce health care into schools. Well, I think it's a notorious ignorance of the fact that schools teach physical and health culture is a subject. That's his name. It's an object called physical and health culture, so. Well, please, if we're going to talk about education, culture, it's the same thing. So wait a minute!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19628	Thank you. And now we've come to the replica, Honorary Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I am glad that I have responded to the replica concerning the two facts spoken by my colleague Stazic about coordinating the work of everyone who needs to solve the problems of addiction, because it really is not a health problem and education. I was president of the Committee for Prevention of Dependence of the City of Rijeka for two years, where police cooperation, attorneys, social services, the city has shown that it can effectively combat the problem of addiction. And school prevention programs that are absolutely inadequate are not colleagues and colleagues programs where children are told about drugs. Through health education, children need to learn how to deal with conflicts, how to help colleagues who have a problem with addiction. Teach them communication skills, thus preventing addiction. I'm not talking about drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19630	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19631	These school preventive programs, as you did in your basic debate, told your colleague Jovanovic that once a year someone comes to talk about drugs and that's the end. As for health care in the context of which this should be done, we must teach some colleagues in the assembly when they are correcting other people's incorrect allegations, and some must be raised, but I doubt that we will succeed. Speaking of health care, we should know when correcting someone else’s alleged incorrect claim would have to know the facts. Health education is submitted experimentally to 30 schools in Croatia that have accepted it. Health education is not being conducted in others, and Minister Primorac is now awaiting the evaluation of this experimental exercise of health care to finally make a decision or not to make a decision. Knowing him may not make a decision to introduce health care as a normal subject. He could have brought that program himself, just as a math program was brought in. It's not. Why not? Ask him, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19632	Thank you. This ended the debates and individual and government representative respected Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19633	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here at the end of today's execution, we thank you for this discussion. In fact, on behalf of the Government, this is the fourth annual report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan on Drugs, and I can only say at the end of this, that in these four years, every year when these data are seen to be seen as establishing that the situation is still going towards the better. Every time we say we'll never be satisfied as long as there's addiction and it's clear that's the case. However, it should be said that efforts are being made and that the efforts that are being made are bearing some fruit. You don't have to bid here right now on who's supposed to represent who isn't here, because in this government you work uniquely on this strategy and we do, and I would commend and especially suggest that despite the fact that the head person of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Intoxication and Drug Abuse has left the team, it is highly quality. There is also a lady who manages the office and this report, which is no less of a quality than it has been all these years, and is their only merit in coordinating the work of all Croatian Government's resolutions in the fight against corruption. So I hope that here are these discussions that have shown, which are of great quality that we immediately understand from one of these quality reports from which all of these are to be read, including criticism, and also the good things that have been done, and then we hope that a report like this will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19634	I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. That would conclude today's session, by warning you that tomorrow we will proceed with point 6. This is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 112. MP Dragica Zgrebec. After that, we plan to address the Croatian Parliament's conclusion of October 10th 2008 and the announcements of the Prime Minister of Justice and Home Affairs to the Croatian Parliament and to report on the activities so far undertaken and planned in the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as the improvement of the physical and legal security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Have a nice and good night and I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-28-0.u19635	5. A report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2007. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the National Action Plan for the Prevention of Abuse of Intoxication in the Republic of Croatia for 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was accepted by a majority of 106 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 1 against.
