ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17617	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The government sent a final proposal to the Parliament of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. One brief reminder. On 15 July of this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Trade in the second reading, which entered into force on 2 August, with the exception of those provisions governing the working time of the shop on Sunday, followed by the entry into force on 1 January 2009. On 22 August this year, following intense requests from the public, as a result of intense demands from our economy, the Government adopted and entered into force a Regulation amending and supplementing the Trade Act amending Article 58. The law on trade in a way that, with basic working hours at national level from 6 to 21, the competent authority of the municipality, the city, or the City of Zagreb, can determine different working hours by means of a general act than prescribed by law. Under the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section, the Government adopted this regulation and, of course, by the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, this Regulation, in order to avoid legal void, was translated into law in the form of a final proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. That Regulation complemented Article 58a of the Law on Trade, which has been set out in a way that, in addition to national working hours from 6 to 21, the start of working hours cannot therefore start earlier than 6 hours, cannot be completed beyond 24 hours. The difference between 21 and 24 hours is therefore the difference that units of local self-government, municipalities, cities and the City of Zagreb can extend on the basis of their general act. On the basis of the information we have received on the implementation of that regulation, we were therefore interested in how many cities or municipalities have, and implemented this regulation, so how many cities have shown interest in the extension of working hours after 21 hours. Based on the data delivered today, we have information that 19 cities have done so. The collected data were collected from the City Association, so the base of the cities surveyed is not complete because the association of cities gathers 70% of the total cities in the Republic of Croatia. However, for the indication of the implementation of this Regulation, the data we have received is a relevant height and a higher source of the cities surveyed. As the regulation in question ceases to apply on the date of entry into force of the new Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes this final proposal with the proposal for an article as set out in the text. I thank and stand at your disposal for any additional information.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17618	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. Of course, we are aware that any entry into the law in question certainly opens a whole series of issues because trade is an extremely important economic activity. It plays a key role in every economy and so on in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the more the trade in the Republic of Croatia as a service economic activity, the more permanent growth and development are recorded in the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense, it is not a waste, and it is also necessary to present some of the basic characteristics related to this activity. So its share in the gross domestic product is more than 10%, so 10.8%, that the number of employees in this branch of the economy is about 257 thousand, of which 211 thousand 840 employees are waste, and 45 thousand 671 employees are employed on craftsmen. I think it is also very important to note that the share of employees in trade compared to the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia is 17.4%. The proposal for this law, which is before us today, so the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, regulates the area of the working time of employers in such a way that the competent authorities, therefore the bodies of the unit of local self-government, will, within a time period of 6 hours to 24 hours, establish the working time of the store. Of course, which will contribute to the efficient supply of goods to consumers who are necessary in everyday life or to the supply of goods that ensure the smooth functioning of the social community, the smooth access to information as well as goods that are related to respect and cultural and family traditions and the needs of tourists. Until the adoption of the Law on Trade, I am talking about the basic law, the activity of trade was regulated by a number of regulations and not only did the need for the adoption of a new law then, but it was also the only solution that the activity fully and in a unique manner regulated or regulated. It should be pointed out that I am the Law on Trade and, in my opinion, it is very important for today's debate of course not to come down, that is to say, it is not just a matter of working time in the activities of trade, but rather a whole series of other issues that we can take into consideration in the short lines. So, when we talk about trade, or the Law on Trade, we talk about trade, other than working time, institutions, that is, the conditions for the conduct of trade on the domestic foreign market and protection measures in import and export and the restriction of trade and of unfair trade and, of course, we are talking, that is, there are provisions that work out surveillance and administrative measures in the area of trade. However, the changes and additions in question, in a quality manner, regulates the area or segment, part-time employers, i.e. a solution has been adopted that the competent authorities of the local self-government unit will be able to do so, as I said in the time period from 6 to 24, by establishing the working time of employers. This solution will certainly contribute to the efficient supply of goods that are necessary in everyday life, but also to those goods that are necessary, therefore, and are bound and subject to trade are specific in certain environments. It is most important to stress that it is precisely the bodies of the local self-government units that will be able to, therefore, give them the legal possibility, by virtue of the legal authority of the general acts, to regulate working hours in accordance with the specificities and needs that exist in a particular unit of local self-government. In conclusion, this is indeed a small intervention in the text of the basic law but which will best regulate this issue and future avoidance, therefore, of all the misunderstandings and difficulties we have been exposed to, mainly in the tourist season in certain units of local self-government. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17620	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17621	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A few months ago, when we had this law on our HNS Club benches, he warned of a series of shortcomings that we had predicted already at the time by passing this law, especially us who are from the tourist regions. I personally proposed certain solutions, there was no hearing from the promoter, so that today the proposer would return to our exam and precisely by the work of the arguments that we were doing at the time defends these amendments and additions to the law. But I'm not going to say another word here that I said back then, because I don't know how much it's worth, but there's a point, and I'm obliged to say to me what the citizens of the Primorian-Gorski County I live in said and asked me as their representative to say here today. For one thing, they wanted me to point out that the vast majority of them or the great size of them do not mind working on Sundays or working on holidays. But the vast majority of them don't mind working overtime either, but I'll explain it, but they don't mind having a much bigger burden on the job during the season, they realize that it's the need of a tourism economy that requires this type of work and the additional engagement of anyone living in the coast. They are aware that a large number of tourists are coming to this area of Croatia, that in some places there is an increase in population by 10, 15, and 20 times, they are aware that, clearly, the traffic of our shops must be increased by 10, 15, 20 and more, they are aware that this brings profits to their companies that have increased 10, 15, 20 times in those months, but it is a question of where we are saleswomanes in that chain, in that profit chain. Why have you forgotten us, why have you led us to the limits of psychic and physical endurance? They ask us, are those who are supposed to be working until 21 hours now going to have extended hours, these same employees up to 24 hours, or are there going to be an increase in staff in the middle of control, amid attempts to protect these people? Will overtime, work on Sundays be paid as it has been? And I'll give you examples. Whether the union, the state inspection will continue to be powerless to help them in countless cases that we will hear today during this debate. Many came to me, told me their cases, gave me documentation, but unfortunately, they all wanted to remain anonymous, even though I begged them not to. Why? They're afraid of the consequences, especially in smaller places, he says, if I get fired, where I'm going to get a job, the boss will call the other boss, who I'm, under quotes, and there's no way I'm getting a job anymore. So allow me a few specific cases with which citizens have come to me these past few months. Let's go case a) a contract on work indefinitely, a person gets an oral agreement, and so is the contract later and stated that the schedule of working time is determined on a one-time basis, it turned out of course to be working on shifts. It says that during each working day, she will have a 30-minute rest, rarely when the vacation lasted longer than 10 minutes, because there was simply no time. It says that overtime will be paid by 50% increase and work on Sundays 100% increase. This person carefully kept records of her working hours and worked for three months on average 64 hours a week, three full months, came to an extreme limit of endurance, physical and mental, and had to quit. No hour has ever been paid overtime. No hour of work on Sundays and nights has been paid. She couldn't get any help from anyone. Case B. In one big river trading company records of the presence of the work? I have photocopies of some of those records. He says: “The bosses told us that from Monday to Friday we have to write exactly 7 hours for every employee no matter how much work we do. More or less. And on Saturday we have to write 5 hours." Perfect. He says, "On Sundays, our bosses decided to get a 30% increase. That's how they decided. And we're really getting 83 kunas for every day of work on Sundays. Pay plus increase. 83 kuna. It says after that, we'll have the right to a day off. And we really do have a day off next week but there is no one to enjoy that day off because there is no one to replace us." So they also led very carefully because I asked them how much they really did? They say, "We work on average 47 to 48 hours a week." Not increasing. Very carefully keeping track. They repeat: "In reality, we can't use the day off if we worked on Sundays because we're not being replaced." In reality, some don't even take advantage of the whole vacation for the same reason. And in reality, people have come, I repeat once again to the physiological limits of endurance. A huge number of women are constantly on sick leave. I can't just take that beat. What does the union say in that big race? Nothing. The union says she's a saleswoman under surveillance. Case 3. One foreign company. Those who are our role models. Those we see in them these days have no corruption. They're doing everything ideal. But when they come to our space, they act a little differently. There's no black and white technique. There are also those who do very well. There are those who work really in a bad way. Staff policy. A competition for the workplace "x" is being opened. The conditions are: medium and high professional preparation. Clearly, a huge number of people appear. Who'd you take? Adversary to missing two more exams. So he's really got a medium-sized professional gear. But in a month, he'll have college prep. Later when he comes to the employer and says, "I'm a college graduate. Is that going to mean "No, it doesn't mean anything." You were accepted, and in the contest stood both medium and high. If you are not satisfied, you have an option to leave." So it's complicated jobs. It's used by a man, a woman who knows these jobs but is paid for a clear medium-sized professional arrangement. And there are not three cases like that, but probably 30 or 130 thousand cases in this country. You'll probably list a number of others. So I'd just like to ask the government, ask all of you colleagues and colleagues. We can't stop here. We can't just stop working hours. We have to stand behind those employees who have no protection from us or the union or anyone at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17622	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. I'm able to decrypt this whether or not it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17623	... Thank you, Mr. President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the amendment of this law for the reason that we were on the trail when a law like this was passed that was being passed after a four-month delay, warning the government what was going to happen. But the government remained deaf, dumb and blind. And we really have one absurd. So after four months, the government changes this law. It changes the law that was being prepared according to the government when it was presented for a full five years. So the government that speaks, which represents itself as the most determined government by who knows which path is most decisive in withdrawing those decisions, the proposals with which it has also acted decisively. Such determination would not be evident in saying that absurdity is not a team larger because here, after only four months, this bill changes. But let's go back to the high season this fundamental law has caused. When this law came into force in the peak season, it was quite expected that it caused great chaos in the tourist centers of our country, mostly along our coast, but almost everywhere, because it can be said that a good part of the population wants to survive right away from tourism. Now what's going on? As "deus ex machina", the prime minister again steps forward and the regulation resolutely amends the law. And what we are now, with this proposal to amend and supplement, is essentially legalizing that regulation as a rescue solution. However, the question arises as to how this one single regulation annulled the five-year effort and lost time invested in the making of laws alone in this part where working time is regulated. Even at that time, the government wanted to esculpate by transferring responsibility to ministry officials that it was a tipfeler. Of course, then the Employers’ Association reacted hastily and announced the constitutional suit. However, what is the result of this and what is the behavior that every few people expect us to do, which, in fact, drives workers crazy in this situation, too. But also here, in a particular case, the government has inappropriately played with the church, promising both on this trail and despite employers' opposition to ban work on Sundays. So what now? As Pontius Pilate washes his hands and transfers all responsibility to the local self-government units, that he himself provides hours of 0-24 hours of work as he wills and whatever they think of. Not today, not tomorrow, but today, because this happens every day remains the fundamental problems of protecting workers and the responsibility of the state to find mechanisms because everyone is at its disposal to use them to protect the work on both Tuesdays and Fridays, on Saturdays and on Mondays. This is where my colleague Doric spoke. This should all of us be concerned that in the 21st century we have slaves of the 21st century because how else to call first and foremost this woman's labor force that has been disproved, whose contracts, instead of indefinitely being misused, are the law and the use of the institute, or pure abuse, and when the law is misused, it is not the use of but the abuse of the law and the conclusion of the contract at a certain time, and thus we deprive workers of those fundamental rights that they have when they have a contract for indefinite time. And what's symptomatic, not just the workers here that are afraid to achieve so much feel weak that they're afraid to seek protection. So what kind of society and state do we live in when people are afraid of looking for their own protection and any people in the administration, whether they're not employees or those who did the job for the state, or this worker, because the message is terrible. If you complain, you won't get it, and nobody's answering. So the workers are afraid to seek their rights because they feel so weak, so powerless and the protection is nowhere to come from. And the role of the state is precisely to protect the weak and to be on the side of the workers, to be right on the side of the laws that exist. It often shifts responsibility to the law itself, whether the Labour Act is good, whether it's not good. Well, I wish he could have been as he used to be. Well, that's the role of the state. So we see the World Bank's latest report on exactly what is Croatia's main problem. Between the demand to provide citizens with better conditions, better health care, better education talks about the social moment. So is it normal for an employee who works for eight or ten hours to be a social case and to be honest with his salary and with his work and standing in line for social assistance? Well, that's our shame. Where are the encyclics that a worker must be paid not only to meet his basic needs but also to his family's needs. The state can't and shouldn't force employers to love, to kiss their worker, so that's not the point. A man seeks his love within a family, but he can and should be forced to obey the law and pay for the worker. But here is our social state, which is more by the letter of the Constitution, than in reality fails to answer the fundamental existential questions of citizens, to the existential conditions of their above all working-age population. So, what we at the SDP club are urging us to draw attention to the government on this occasion, that if she has transferred her responsibility for working time to local self-government units to ensure that the worker is paid. That shouldn't be a problem. Let the Labour and Rights Act be respected. Existing soon, here we will see what it will be and how companies will be able to pass the Minimum Salary Act. Some branches will indeed find themselves in a good mood because they are not, we have not developed, or we have no concept of industrialization of Croatia and those previous actions that would allow those non-erable branches, such as textiles, to pay minimum wages. But on this occasion, we draw attention to the fact that we have appealed so many times, that we have so many times sought amendments to the Penal Code in which non-payment of wages will be treated as a criminal offence. We were rejected. Doesn't the government think it's anything socially dangerous if the worker works despite the employer's ability and suffering and grabs extra profits from not paying the worker. We at the SDP club consider these behaviors to be exceptional social dangers. They destroy and destroy families not only that worker, but also destroy social relations. That it's possible for a rich, strong man to behave as he pleases and not suffer any consequences. But it is such a sin that cries out to heaven, and which should be judged in great measure, but also prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17624	Thank you. We have a correction. First of all, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17625	Mr. President, I refer to Article 210. The Rules of Procedure and I feel that the Rules of Procedure have been hurt by the fact that the representative in her exposé here has significantly deviated from the subject of some fears, of social dangers. About all that, just not the provisions of the laws that change today. I've had so much need to warn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17626	Ladies and gentlemen, the question and return to the agenda has already been mentioned several times yesterday. I agreed with Mrs. Marija Lugaric's opinion, which she first started here. And I'm going to do it so that we don't ever hear from each other again and explain the article 210. The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the president will warn him to stick to the agenda. It means if he gets away. If the speaker does not stick to the agenda after the second call, the president will take away his word. In that case, the representative may no longer take part in the debate on the subject of the agenda. There is no one, or almost no situation where it can't be claimed that a single representative has really gotten away from the agenda, but there is also what I said yesterday, any thing you can bring into some sort of relationship with the subject. You do some kind of stunt, kind of. Therefore, it is very difficult for the president to judge on this matter, so I ask all of you, of course, to take care of Article 210 that it is not always necessary to warn and explain it. The broadest, to say the least, is to try to set in this regard, but sometimes in this too much and then, and that fine line of exaggeration is difficult to determine in a subjective way. I'm asking you to help me with this so we can stick to the real agenda and stay out of the way. And now we have three corrections. First Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17627	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague said the Croatian government played the church. The Croatian government has agreed this law, co-workers, together with social partners and with entrepreneurs and trade unions. This was the result of the agreement, the compromise and the consensus on the proposal. And the other thing, you honor the government that in just three months it changed, that is, the law has been withdrawn, so it's changing it now, but speaking of which, remember that in just three months you've changed the Constitution twice. The Constitution! So, it's okay, your behavior is fine, and when I say here, based on consensus and compromise, there's one solution that we're supplementing now, then it's wrong, and you can change the Constitution, and we shouldn't change the laws within three months. Well, ma'am, you have clearly different criteria in terms of who needs to be brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17628	Thank you very much. We still have the correction, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17629	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Says the workers are afraid to seek protection. Not true because two weeks ago, when we talked here about a report by the Ombudsman, you talked about a huge number of people who are complaining, who are complaining, and then you portrayed it as a catastrophic situation in Croatia. Now that that doesn't suit you, they don't dare apply. You see how hard it is to say one thing, another time, and here we are all together, and we all know it. And secondly, the government has no concept of industrialization. So if just one example, over 300 entrepreneurial zones where there are already over 50,000 employees. Here's the concept, and here's who I can contact, and here's the number that they actually reported to that general attorney. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17630	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17631	Dear President, in Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, Antičević in her gemist debate talked about everything and everything, and there are a number of incorrect allegations, but I think this is the most important thing that she said that workers in Croatia are afraid to seek protection from the unions, that unions are not doing their jobs. I don't know, maybe the MP has his own private poll to support it with the fact that he also mentioned how much the Attorney General has just proven that the workers are talking to him, and they end up being seen by disputes and working disputes as to how many workers seek protection and how many trade unions the employers are suing. The other thing is that these disputes may not be resolved so quickly, but this is a completely incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17632	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17633	Mr. Kunst was correcting the violation of Rule 209 of his Rules of Procedure, misusing this institute to correct an incorrect assumption, correcting something I didn't say. In all my speech, I have not said a word to the union, and please, Mr. Kunst, don't abuse it, so I am the fact that the union, even though I don't think it's a union that's poor, that you're going into political waters. I guess it's a lot stronger now, though. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17634	Mr. Kunst did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, but you injured the Rules of Procedure because you incorrectly reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. But since you're not interested, you're going out there, right, it's just important to say something here. Let's move on with the widest approach to problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have another club. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17635	Your Honor, Mr. President, State Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The entire Law on Trade that defended work after 21 hours, which still defends work on Sundays, is absurd. One part of that absurdity from that law, meaning the ban on working after 21 hours, mostly here applies, or I concentrate on the season, is now removed. I am deeply convinced that this question should be left to local self-government. So much trust should be given to our commissioners and mayors, one of whom is a large majority and from the ranks of ruling parties, so much autonomy should be left to local self-government. I'm with Mrs. Ingrid, with Mr. Doric absolutely agree, 100% I sign what they said, but there's another dimension here. So I agree, I don't know the provisions of the Labour Act, but I'm also going to talk about the position of a small trader who's often in a worse position and from the worker himself. What I should also regulate with this law is to remove the ban on work on Sundays mainly in the season. That's what all the Adriatic commissioners, the mayors of Istria start with, means IDS's over don't know the SDP's on the coast, I don't know the independents, to Dubrovnik's Mrs. Shuice, who's from the ruling party. Therefore, my proposal would be that, as the Government gave up 0.0 proms, such as on a regatta or in a marina along with the builds and “Plavac Mali” gave up the labour ban after 21 hours, so that it also gave up the ban on Sundays. I do not wish for the government to change the provision of the law by its regulation within 15 days after the law came into force, to mock the Government, but I ask you gentlemen representatives to adapt this Law on Trade to reason, to be adapted to life and to be adapted to the real needs of our traders. We all know that this original law of the government wanted to court the church on one hand, to court the unions, but I will say that it wanted to court the great merchants because they are the only ones who benefit from this law, they have no small ones. It's the only big one that's benefiting. Does Sunday's labour ban hurt big? Someone will say yes, but mostly not. Who's it worth it to? Hurt small merchants, that's the point. Small merchants held 70% of the so-called 70 percent in 2000. small sales or retail sales. Today 2008, the first five traders in the Republic of Croatia, Konzum, Metro, Mercator, Getro, Bila, hold 54% of Croatian markets. If we talk about 10 first-placed traders in the Republic of Croatia, then there are still "Plodine", "KTC", "Kerum", "Tommy", "Studenac" they hold 74% of the markets in the retail trade. 15 firsts hold almost 80%. So thousands and thousands of others are pushed into that space from 15% to 20%. And now, and the government certainly knows these figures, mostly the people of the Ministry of Economy, the law is passed, so let's say, almost death for tens of thousands of these small merchants. So I'm talking about banning Sundays. As would have been a disaster if it had been insisted, i.e. it had not changed the labour ban provision after 21 hours for merchants in the coastal, Istrian, Dalmatian, etc. Places. In 2010, and that's what the government's gentlemen know, the ban ceases, and that's the condition of the Market Competition Agency, about rescheduling 1200 kiosks into retail mixed goods, and that "Conzum" that today has 600 trades will make all the remaining traders push into 10% of the markets on that stage. What does that mean? In front of the small merchants today there is a struggle for naked survival and so much I ask you gentlemen in the government, not to deny them the trouble of being a cynic before the time. Unfortunately, that one dimension I claim, the position of these small merchants simply cannot be seen by union leaders either. Maybe they know about it, but it's clear they're taking on other interests. To go back to the law on which both unions and churches persisted, and I don't know who doesn't, clearly defending those conditions by so-called labour ban after 21 hours, but I argue that they are now in the position of that small merchant I assure you that they too would fight for an hour's work more, not for an hour's work less. I say it's more common to that little merchant than to the employee who works with them. These first respond easily to all their assets, many would even close but simply no longer have anywhere to go, loans should be paid, contributions, mortgages, and what they do, I don't know looking for a straw of salvation, hoping that tomorrow will be better. As the recession started, I'm afraid that almost that better day tomorrow in this country, but our environment will not be. We can say the following. I mentioned these first five biggest trade chains. In 2007, in a retail trade, traffic of 19 billion kuna, that's 54%. You know how many 30-40 thousand little ones they made? Between five and six billion kuna sales. I'm talking about retail. This situation where the largest 10 trade chains have 71% retail, it's just a disaster. It is clearly necessary to count both the TDR and the EPH groups, etc. because of the position in the press. What's going on? And I'm saying that's what we witnessed this summer. These big ones can simply agree, sit down and decide what the prices will be, whether it will affect inflation or not, I said that once after this speaker. They can almost destroy any government, they can draw people into the streets, they can influence election results, they can influence the policy of incentives, etc. etc. What were they doing this summer? Why did inflation just happen in those terrible numbers of 8.5 or don't I know how much at 8 months? So because these biggest deals, the Adriatic lives one million domicillal population of Istrians, Dalmatians down to Dubrovnik, on the Adriatic every day there are two million more coming from the continent of the Republic of Croatia, coming from the surrounding countries and now let's take these people's money and that's the basic reason, let us oil aside, etc. why inflation at 8 months was 8.5%. It was hard for the government and any other policy to influence it. Now that they've brought into question the next season, not in the hotel, but in the private sector, it's whether or not they care when they can put themselves in a good position anyway. Clearly, these same ones are no longer enough just money, now they want power. One Kerum, if he does not fight, may be the mayor of Split, Kukurin Mayor, Todorovic the president of the state, if it is necessary to install a minister or someone else, it has not been a problem for them anyway. It's a reality, and we can't get away from it. 1% of these large economies hold 75% of the Croatian economy, 4% still holds 13% and all 95% of others, tens and tens of thousands of small crafts, shops, etc., still holds 13% of the Croatian economy. And I keep, as I often say, that the role of politics is to see it, the media to recognize it, the union to warn citizens to make peace with it, and the churches not to spray, as I know it, with this blessed water. And so much to say that this law, when it comes to not only work after 21 hours in the season or when, needs to be brought into line with reason and should allow people down in the season to work on Sundays. In one Buzet, there is no need for a shop to work on Sundays, so there is no Pazin, probably not in Slavonia and so on. I'm talking about that kid, and I'm talking about even the big one. But in the season, on the beach, everything has to be open. And in one Poreč, and in Dubrovnik, and in Pula, and in Opatija, and in one Umag: for it is among other things the image of these places. If we don't make it possible for people, strangers, to spend something, then when are these people holding those little shops, etc. something and make money? And we can't finally, I say, one standard applies to the caterers, another standard to the merchants. The unions, clearly neither the church nor the government, have suggested that innkeepers should not work on Sundays, and it is good that such a foolish idea does not come to their mind, because with the right of this people they would be ridiculed. But I ask myself why Sundays trade can work both in Slovenia and Italy, in the season in Greece, Spain, and why it should not work in the Republic of Croatia. Trade at last if we want to be honest, honest, if anyone who sits here will admit it, who had the chance to be in the Vatican on Sundays, works in the Vatican as well. And Papi obviously doesn't mind, while those who have business spaces are paying the rents to the Holy See. But why does Kaptol thus pressure both the government and the Croatian public and defend work on Sundays in the season? I just can't understand it. Selling all those little merchants fell drastically this summer. What does that mean? The recession is spreading. A guest coming from one Italy or Germany, Austria, spent less this year than he spent last year. The recession continues to spread. This reflects understandablely on our guest's purchasing power. Europe fights for the market, to sell every piece of goods, every shoe, every car, every butter, ham, parmesan... That cheese, and now we don't give people a chance to work on Sundays. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Europe, we read today, yesterday, etc., to resuscitate its banks, amounts to 300 billion euros. We are forced to privatise an oiler who doesn't need any funding or guarantee from the state. And then a man really asks himself why such a policy is being conducted. I only ask one thing, that our people are allowed to work so that they can earn money, and it is clear that the worker who works with them must also be properly paid and must be protected from all that the Labour Act prescribes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17636	Thank you. The ways of God are unspeakable, just so much. We have one, two corrections to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17637	Your Honor, Vice President. I refer to Article 209 again. Rules of Procedure. Agent Cain said one inaccuracy. He said the government wanted to join the unions and that that's why she banned Sundays, which is, and the church mentioned it, exactly. This is incorrect because the union insisted, it was the trade union that most insisted that Sunday's work be banned, and the government respected the decision of the Economic and Social Council in which the three social partners who were unique in making decisions to ban Sunday's work. So, it wasn't the government who was courting anyone, it was respecting the decision of the tripartite body, and that's the Economic and Social Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17638	Thank you. An example of a good correction of an incorrect quote. And a second correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Caine's says the law is absurd which is certainly not, at least if he agrees with his colleague Doric, and he said he agrees. And counterpart Doric said that the store workers don't have a day off. So if they don't have a day off, then let Sunday be a day off, and they'll spend at least one day with their family. According to this, it's certainly not absurd from the employee's point of view, but it may be from the owner's point of view.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17640	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Without throwing it out of the bench, Your Honor. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17641	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support amendments and additions to the Law on Trade. And I'd just like to remind you of what these changes and additions are saying, because through various discussions, especially the opposition colleague, you could hear really anything but what the new law offers. And it regulates the area of working time of the store in such a way that the competent local self-government will be able, within 6 hours to 24 hours, to establish the working time of the store, which will certainly contribute to the efficient supply of consumer goods necessary in everyday life or to the supply of goods that ensure the smooth functioning of the social community. I am surprised at the sometimes expressed duplicity or hypocrisy, because here the government, who listened to the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of crafts and who listened to the proposal of the majority of the municipalities and towns in the coast, who, after the adoption of this law and after its application, noticed that they had some difficulties in implementing it, were reacting to by craftsmen with some and ourselves, so during the summer that we did not live down on the coast, we had the opportunity to talk. And you who live certainly have been exposed to many pressures, because they have been complaining that they will find it difficult to implement the provisions of this law in the tourist season when most tourists only after nine hours leave their homes or places where they live, resorts and try to get certain souvenirs or what they need at that time. Therefore, it should be commended to the hearing government, which has complied with these remarks, rather than to provide particularly incorrect information, which is why amendments and additions to this law are taking place. What should be the job of our parliamentary representatives is to make sure that we make good laws, and it is a concern to protect the rights of workers, but also to ensure that everyone has the same fair appearance on the market, which was often not the case in particular when we talk about trade and we in HSS think that there are always better certain things, certain problems being dealt with by law, and not by rules, as it was the case for the adoption of this Law on Trade, because it used to work in accordance with the rules, where indeed municipalities and cities without certain restrictions were explicitly prescribed during working hours, and in some cases they allowed the incorrect business advantage of individuals, i.e. employers, who were in violation of the law and according to some statistics, even happened to the worker to be more than 60 working days or 20%. So what we stand for at HSS is to hear the voice of the public, to hear professional institutions, and in particular we are surprised that we are wondering what civil society organisations think and where the church belongs. We believe that the positions of both unions and churches, but also of all those who want workers well, those positions that were addressed to regulate work on Sundays, and we in the HSS supported it even in due time and proposed a special law. And that this is extremely important and that it is extremely important to regulate the area of trade and in this segment of work on Sundays speak also the fact that of the 260 thousand employees in the trade, women are employed. So this is about 200 thousand mothers who need to be protected from overwork from overexploitation, they need to be provided with the existence, so that they can work, but that they also have the right to be with their family, they have the right to a day off. It happens often, and we are witnessing it in the face of our citizens when we come into the field or when we enter the store to complain about disenfranchisement, that sometimes employers support people, throw them on the street, replace them with others, and the state pays all that, of course, because such workers end up at the Employment Office. It is therefore important to find solutions that will contribute to the arrangement of society and its stabilisation, and it is certain that the issue of the Law on Trade is one of these important issues. 17.3% is the share of employees in the store, so as I have already said, it's about 260 thousand employees who work at 50,000 stores, and it's estimated that Sunday works between 30,000 and 40,000 people and, if we consider their families working on Sundays at the store, which are not usually employed there, then that figure is certainly much larger. Unfortunately, many work seven days a week, not a single day off, it happens on holidays and on days off. In some shops, there were cases that workers worked for six months, that they had not had a single day off that the Labour Act guaranteed, and the overtime at the shops was so much that they could certainly employ 10,000 more people. And that's why we at HSS really don't accept the views of certain trade chains that have very often announced that if a law is passed that we have passed, and where the issue of work is regulated on Sundays, that they will fire workers, we think it's pure blackmail and immorality. Of course, we are in favour of more effective work of inspection services, because it is certainly important, because apart from passing laws, it is important that these laws be implemented, that these laws be applied and that, apart from the Executive Body, I think we must be occupied as parliamentary representatives, because the role of this Parliament should perhaps be more proactive than the role we have today, which is the debate and has been passed by the laws themselves. I must also say that even employers themselves do not consider trade to be necessary and profitable on Sundays and holidays, but many are driven by unfair competition in which, apart from workers, small entrepreneurs, and there are 22 thousand in the store, and they have declared that Sundays should not work because they do nothing new, nothing better, no more profit. I think it's important to point out that the question of working in a store should be viewed from a different perspective, from a human aspect, to listen to what people in the store really think and what rights they are looking for, not politicizing over this subject, because it's a word of 260 thousand people. Of course, there is also a need to listen to professional organisations as the Chamber of crafts responded in this case, but the Commissioners and the Mayors of the Coasts reacted and regardless of some of our personal views that may be different, it is certain that they should always listen to the voice of the majority in order to function normally on the ground, especially when it comes to the tourist season. And when it comes to Sunday, we certainly won't support any changes, and I can tell the colleagues from the opposition, because for us Sunday is the day of the meeting and we think that the new lifestyles that are trying to impose themselves and often advocate here in the Croatian Parliament are not good, they don't bring about the stabilisation of society or the stabilisation of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17642	Thank you. And now we have one series of corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Petir, it is not the exact claim that you have made that the Government is making amendments to this law, because it has listened to social partners, associations, craftsmen, mayors, mayors, etc. The government is bringing these changes to the program because when the craftsman's chamber, when certain social partners and when local self-government warned about the absurdity of this law, it was before the adoption of this summer, then the government did not want to listen to their demands and their demands. And that's actually true. And second of all, you're saying that in opposition today we're saying things here and we're hypocritical. Comrade Petyr, I beg you, when you say so, then first go from yourself, and look what you said about the readings that we had about the law in the store before and show a little more consistency between what you say and what you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17644	This other thing wasn't a correction to an incorrect assumption. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17645	Mrs. Sobol has injured in this dynamic and fierce debate Rules of Procedure Rule 209 because she did not essentially correct anything. So after the adoption of this law, representatives of the Croatian Chamber of crafts responded after a few days and personally sent me this letter that I saw that they also referred to the Government, so you did not correct anything. All I can tell you from your grades is that you have to read all my discussions and you'll see that they are. And I'm surprised that this is how you react as president of gender equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17646	Thank you. The first correction was good, the second part wasn't good. So let's move on. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes in 10.37 minutes. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. I'd like to beg you, so let's stick to it, and let's make it right... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17647	Here, I'll try, so I hope after this correction you'll commend me that both were correct. First, I'd like to correct my colleague, Petyr, in a series of allegations that I can't explain for a short while, I'll just say two. The first is that it's hypocrisy, that's what Sobol said, it can't be hypocrisy if you say something constantly the same thing. We warned about this a month ago, and what we should... That's not what we said back then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe it's hypocritical when you represent a party that's important to pre-election issues, and then you stay in the coalition regardless of the ZERP, regardless of other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17648	Please, it's no longer a correction to an incorrect quote!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17649	Well, I do, but then somebody's always calling me. It's about the other one, but I think it's just a lapse because my colleague Petir also mentioned sovereigns that are already in the existing law because the government has accepted an amendment to the opposition, it would be good... and mention these suggestions. .../The speaker shut down./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17650	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17651	... which are already an exception in the existing law. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17652	I'd like to ask you before I give my word to the esteemed representative Mariana Petir, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It says nice in the Rules of Procedure, look at what it means to correct an incorrect quote, so I'd like to ask you all to stick to it together. Here's my appeal. Dear Representative Mariana Petir. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17653	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Maras, obviously he didn't read the Rules of Procedure, and that's exactly what I was going to say, so I'd like you to instruct them to read the Rules of Procedure before they correct the incorrect allegations. 'Cause I was saying 209. [[/Intruder: Which article?]] So, it's about me saying that the opposition, some of it's opposition that they're hypocritical in that sense that when the government doesn't accept opinions, possibly some professional organisations or the public, then that government attacks. Now that the government has accepted the opinion of the craft chamber and cities and coastal municipalities, the government is under attack again. There should be equal criteria and you should understand and listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17654	Thank you. It's no longer a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on with the corrections. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17655	I am correcting the quote of my colleague, Petir, who said that in her discussions some MPs talked about what is not a topic, which even implies a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The urgent procedure is the debate on the Emergency Procedure Act, Article 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the joint discussion of the first and second readings, and the legislators have the right to apply the rights set out in Article 144(2) which also allows for a general debate on the reading of the Emergency Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17656	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17657	To quote, Mrs. Petir said literally that the government had listened to the craft chamber, the cities, etc., the truth, but she listened to them when? She listened too late after all of us warned about what would happen in the season. The government did not listen, beware, not even its representatives from Dubrovnik, etc., did not listen to the opposition, did not listen to the voice of reason, in one word it set out in that logic, "later Marko arrives in Kosovo". But for someone, the Marko arrived too soon, so many merchants, bakers in Zagreb, paid no fines, 30 thousand kuna, and so many of them had no traffic that month. It's a punishment like you have to sell 6,000 loaves of bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17658	Thank you. It's a replica now. It is now a replica, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17659	It's not a replica now. .../The speaker went off and then turned on./... and who will pay them all these costs, who will refund their damage. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17660	Mr. Representative, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Your time is up. And your time is up!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17661	Yes, because you interrupted me! It's because you interrupted me!
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17662	Your Honor, you can't speak any further, because you're running out of time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17663	I've got another rectification.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17664	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17665	Well, you're interrupting me. I can't just get to the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17666	Your Honor, I'll interrupt when your time is up. We can't, so we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17667	I would have been able to say what I wanted to...../The speaker shut down./...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17668	Your Honor, you can't speak any further, because you're running out of time. I would beg you, I would beg you, in that rigor we stick to the Rules of Procedure, I have nothing against it, the debate is all right, the corrections, it's all fine, but we stick to the Rules of Procedure, so we brought it to ourselves. If the time is up, the time is up, dear God, so we have brought such a Rules of Procedure. We also have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17669	Thank you very much. I just wanted to intervene. I don't know exactly who hurt the Rules of Procedure right now. Probably you, too, is a colleague of Petir's, because she's a colleague of Petir's. I refer to article 209 which speaks, colleague Petir said I hurt Article 209. [[/Intruder: Excuse me what article? What are you calling yourself?]] Since I've read it Just a little bit I can explain what it is. [[I'm sorry.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17670	I'm sorry, Your Honor, but you didn't get back to me on time right after. The debates rather than until after the debate was... [[No, no, I called.]] [[Speakers speaking out loud, doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17671	I must tell you, Mr. Vice President. just for the sake of correctness. [[/Intruder: Yes?]] My colleague Petyr said about me that I didn't read the Rules of Procedure. I read it well but I needed a few more moments to see if I'd read it right. She didn't read it because it was 'Cause she could say that I... /The speaker's off. [[/Employed: Dear Representative.]] 210th but not 209th. So please, you...
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17672	Dear Representative, please, when you speak of breach of the Rules of Procedure or correction of an incorrect quote or replica immediately during the debate of the correction or something of that representative. And not during the debate of Cain, you report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure which was before. I mean, that's not according to your Rules of Procedure. Please. Let's move on. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17673	The esteemed Vice President in a series of incorrect allegations made by the esteemed representative Petir, I will only correct one. I quote, you said, "The government had hearing." On the contrary. The government had no hearing at the time because then we were all here warning what was going to happen? Healthy logic stated that during the tourist season shops should work longer. Healthy logic insisted that it means that local self-government should be decided and we wanted to help you. We wanted to help the government, and that's why we suggested it. That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17674	And the honourable representative of Shima Luchin. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17675	Thank you very much. Since it's been fixed, what I wanted to make right by giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17676	Thank you, Your Honor. We recommend it another time. We are moving forward with an individual debate, i.e. we are starting an individual debate and is the first respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17677	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, our people say, "Whoever confesses half is forgiven to him?" But on this proposal to amend the Law on Trade, I will not forgive the Government, nor will I support these amendments and additions to the law. First, because in the debate on the law, I warned and begged to avoid a trap for trade to be the only activity in the Croatian economy whose working time is regulated by the law. I said that even for health care, working hours are not determined by law, but by sublegal regulations, and there is indeed no activity in Croatia whose working time is precisely restricted by law. And no argument has been made why do we have to do this? Not now, either. Secondly, I suggested that, as for all other economic activities and services, working hours be the subject of collective agreements or collective agreements. Neither the government nor now accepts such an approach by trying to transfer responsibility this time to local self-government. We also warned that the provisions on working hours up to 21 hours simply were not acceptable. That it would cause more damage than benefits. The government admits she was wrong. I'll wait for the MPs to let the government's representatives hear the debate with these private talks. ... So we warned that the harmfulness of the labour limit provision by 21 hours, the government now accepted it, understood after the noise and the noise in the tourist season. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What does the government propose now? That the working hours after 21 hours and up to 24 are determined by the competent authority of local self-government. What's the competent body? Especially in the context of a new establishment of local self-government after the next election when the chieftains are abolished. The mayor or the city council? What law defines the authority of the representative body to determine working time in trade? Look at the old provisions. Compare with the new ones. A place of potential and financial and political corruption is opening up. We also had in one activity a similar provision when the matter of working time, the work permit even for more than 24 hours is determined that way and don't tell me you don't know that licenses are bought on the black market. You're opening up a new space for possible corruption. The government's arguments at the time were that these provisions were to function as a protection of workers. What about workers' rights now? It is now allowed to work in shops at night because according to the law in Croatia, work between 23 hours one day and 5 in the morning of the second day is considered work at night. What regulation in Croatia, Madam Secretary of State, has established a salary increase for workers working at night? There isn't. No law nor the Labour Act determines the height of the salary increase for work at night. It's what leaves it to a collective contract. The government said it cannot accept my proposal that the issue of trade, working time is determined by a collective contract because 40% of employees in Croatia are not covered by collective agreements. What does that mean? That for 60% of store employees there is no legal norm about an increase in wages for work at night. Because an employer's salary can be increased by one lip, fulfilling the law on labour that he has given an increased salary. Because the Labour Act uses an increased salary term, and how much by collective agreement. For all claims and answers that the State Inspectorate is unable to monitor the application of existing collective agreements and regulations, you have denied yourself. Three days after the entry into force of the Law on Trade in Zagreb, several small private shops and bakerys were closed due to violations of the Working Time Decision. There were fines and 30,000 kunas. Imagine how much order in working hours and paying overtime, paying for Sunday work and paying for work for holidays would introduce that same approach, that same inspection had in the domain of law enforcement and respecting collective contracts in the payment of workers, in the control of the overtime, in the control of keeping records. So that only two major centres were closed because they cheated on workers, forging employment contracts, even falsified the presence records at work of what counterpart Doric was talking about. Just one big center that's closed and sanctioned shouldn't be the first one to discuss it today. So, it was proved this time that it might be inadmissible that inspection surveillance could be done, because the same day the inspection came out on the ground, those measures, sanctions and closures were the top news of the day on all the media. Also, the news of the closure of the factory, trade, centre, entrepreneurs or anything else because of non-compliance with labour rights would be a top topic. Warning, a message to those that they are finally supervised and controlled in Croatia by respect for workers' rights. Instead, we have a bill that will allow trade to work after 21st hour as a local decision. So if that's the case, tell me if it's a good thing to be such a colour, that within one county we can have 5, 6, 10 working-time regimes. When an inspector goes to the field, he must pick up the decisions of all municipal, city councils and the county to know what the decision is in which municipality and city. Why not regional self-government, so that at least on the territory of a county we have about the same approach and easier control. 450 decisions on working time must be collected in order to be able to control on the ground whether 21,00, 21,30, 22,00 or up to 24,00 hours of trade is allowed in that municipality or city. So who are we kidding? So they won't be able to control it? This is a low-resistance line, this is a confession that the original solution was bad. But unfortunately, instead of a good solution, it is now even worse, and I neither forgive you for admitting it, nor will I support such a proposal because it is now even more at the expense of women's employees, especially women, because the most women work in the store and you allow employers to make them work 24.00 at night, and you don't have any regulations about paying for night work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17678	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that this law, namely by transferring power to local self-government to create a new space for corruption. How's that, I mean, what kind of claim is that? It's a completely incorrect quote. It has nothing to do with this bill. The bill was logically transferred to the local level. Let the local community decide how to operate stores in their jurisdiction. And the other thing, it's incorrect that there's no regulated matter of work at night. It's completely incorrect that there's no regulated matter of work at night. That's an incorrect claim, an incorrect allegation. Sir, read the Labour Act and all the other laws that regulate that area. And I guess you used to be in the union. You've obviously quickly forgotten what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17680	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Željko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17681	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. A respected colleague of parliament has been publicly accused, and I am correcting this assumption that permits, i.e. working time regulations, are being purchased. This directly accused today all the mayors or mayors of the municipalities whose regulation or tomorrow law is to be released, including me, who made a decision a week ago about it on my headship to extend our working hours from 21.00 to 22.00 hours in the summer, and I didn't think of it, nor did I get the money for it. Well, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, if you have such knowledge, you know where the place is, and it's a competent institution, not a public accusation against all local self-government executives because it's very inappropriate even the way this comes up. When it comes to the fact that in the area of a region of county in several cities, the municipality why would not be a different situation consistent with tourism and its assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17682	Thank you. Time. Thank you very much. And we have one replica. Dear Representative Zeljka Antunovic, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17683	Dear counterpart Lesar, I would actually like to pollute with that saying from the very beginning “who admits half of it is forgiven. ” He wanted or from that statement can in fact conclude that he has some basis for bringing the government out of this game to withdraw needs something and to tolerate and forgive. I don't think that's true in this case, because we've witnessed it too many times, insist on it, so pull it back, games good and bad boy. However, these are not naive games which, which should be used, the government was in error. The government was not mistaken. There were a lot of clear warnings. I think they were, there were intentions, and those intentions were to manipulate in fact negotiations with the social partners. The intention was to show that the government respected the dissatisfaction of the workers founded, but which Mr. Lesar later explained in his debate that nothing in the real problems of the workers was actually done. Once again, it is a game of creating an illusion, creating an illusion of how the government cares about the problems we have in Croatia, but it never solves them with its unmistakable solutions. And that's why this time in my deep conviction and not just this time, but every time the government plays the same game, and now this debate is kind of playing with that public and the general impression of how something works. The government should not be forgiven, it should be asked to be responsible for all the damage it has caused to the entrepreneurs, for all the frustrations it has caused to individuals who have faced the inspection and should be trampled, not forgiven.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17684	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, when we talk about the Law on Trade, I'll just say that trade is like an important economic activity and that it plays a key role in the economy. The unquestionable fact is that today this activity faces major market challenges such as increased competition, concentration of new technologies, the need to provide new services and sales forms based on the development of electronic business, resulting from overall globalisation. In the Republic of Croatia, trade as a service economic activity in recent years has recorded constant growth and development. Today, its share in GDP is 10.9% and a steady increase in the number of employees in trade has been recorded. According to the latest state of the State Statistics Institute for the period January 2007 to September 2007, the number of employees in this branch, as we have here several times already observed 259 thousand of which are 213 thousand on companies, and on craftsmen, 46 thousand employees. The number of shops in the Republic of Croatia was a total of 50,000 for the same period, out of which 28 thousand were dropped on the company. The share of employees in trade in the same period compared to the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia is 17.3%. In view of all these facts, it is necessary to work continuously on the construction of legislation that should ensure the smooth development of this activity and also bring it closer to the level of development in other countries. It is also necessary to make it possible, through regulation, to create operating conditions for all market operators involved in this activity, and all with the aim of curbing the unfair competition and minimising the unregistered economy, which is certainly a phenomenon and we are witnesses, but at the same time we know that there are fewer and fewer such facilities. The development of trade as an economic activity will depend primarily on adapting to new conditions both global and regional, and on the local market, but on the addition of legislation that should ensure its smooth growth and development and also bring the development level closer to other countries with developed economies. As regards the institutional arrangement of the trade activity, it was arranged by the adoption of the Law on Trade in this year, the "National Journal" No. 87 which created a legal basis for the functioning and further development of trade activity in our country. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade regulates the area of working time of the store in such a way that the competent authorities of local self-government in the time frame of 6 to 24 hours will establish the working time of the store, which will contribute to the efficient supply of consumer goods that are necessary in daily life. Of course, by changing this law that I was talking about, the start of a shop hours can't be determined any earlier than six hours, or the end of 24 hours later. It is important to note that the regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Trade ceases to apply with the effect of this law. 96/2008. A year. When we talk about all these provisions of the law, it is important to note that stores can work as indicated from 6 to 21. It is also important to note that and it is good that it was given in the jurisdiction of local self-government to determine trade in certain units of local self-government. But at the same time, I am concerned about the debate of some colleagues who are committed to protecting workers at the same time, and on the other hand, regardless of how long it takes for each of these units to adopt a regulation to work, they are all committed to working on Sundays, and at the same time we know that it is the only day of the week when a person should rest, but above all that it is a holiday if they really should all be in the family circle. It is also important to note that changes in working time in cities and municipalities have not shown greater interest, so I support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade with the Final Bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17686	Thank you. We have one replica, Honorable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17687	Thank you very much. Here, I'd like to replicate my colleague Lucic. No question, especially the issue of overtime, will be resolved by passing this law. The issue of overtime, the question of whether workers work more than the law is allowed, which is 40 hours a week or possibly an additional 40 hours a month. This can only be solved by inspection, by law enforcement, by the law that already exists so that when you say that MPs in your debate, SDP advocates when they talk about this law do not talk about advocating that people work more. No, we're trying to make the law clear, and the inspections that are responsible for it sanction those who don't enforce the laws. So I did a little inversion, maybe unconsciously in my presentation, and here's what I needed to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17688	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Honorable representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17689	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary. I will, with a very short comment, follow this final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade because although trade is an extremely important activity for the entire economy of Croatia, for the public, for our guests in tourism here a small segment is subject to change and this practical article 58th working time trade and that part of it. It refers to a supplement that allows local self-government to regulate working hours within legal frameworks, and I think it is a good decision because there are differences in different municipalities or cities along Croatia and where tourist resorts, a series of circumstances that are impossible to predict by law, can affect these nuances and it is good that local self-government has that option. But within those legal frameworks that apply to all Croatia. And that's why I support this amendment to the law, which was first very quickly put through the regulation, in fact, in an operational function, and now by law we're making it permanent and I think it's a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17690	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17691	Dear counterpart Puljic, I agree with you that it is good for local self-government to decide. And that was exactly what we had in mind when we warned about the necessity of it, especially in tourism that local self-government was concerned about it. And I trust you that it's not easy for you, especially for the MPs who are now aphimating about this law, that once it means aphidically defending that decision, and now defends this decision. And I'm sorry about that, too, because that's why I'm unhappy because, among other things, as in some way, and the citizens were kind of messing around in that part, so did the representatives who today can defend a whole other proposal from the one that was first in the proposed text. And our intensity wasn't to suggest you run the country. Our intensity was to fix what we saw was bad, to fix what we warned and what common sense and logic warned about. And from that very position, we would be happier if you had listened to us at the time, and not if there was an ex-post mind, and in some way, our remarks that we had made, just in the course of the tourist season, were complemented by certain regulations. So we'd be happier if you'd listened to us then, but since you're not here now we have such additions to the law and what I'm sorry for, I'm sorry that in some way you've remained damaged in that process, that is, once you've had to defend one proposal, and now with the same intensity you have to defend another proposal and here's my representative who defends it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17692	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica and one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17693	The Honorable Vice President, but it is not the first time that individual representatives of Article 209 abuse the Rules of Procedure, because he says when someone appears on a replica that they can only report to a basic exhibition, and in principle it has nothing to do with what this MP was saying with the basic presentation of a colleague who spoke about the Law on Trade. It has nothing to do with anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17694	Thank you. We now have a second violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17695	... So if my colleague Kunst didn't listen to me at first, he'd just agreed with his colleague, Puljić, so that part probably missed him, and just because I agreed with him, [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17696	Thank you. And now we have an answer to the replica of the esteemed representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17697	Mr. Vice President, first of all, I'm going to express solidarity with you, and it's not easy for you to hold a session especially when it begins with these business remarks, because the controversy has strayed between Mr. Kunst in a completely different direction. My friend, I'll only replicate you for one sentence. You said right away at the beginning of your presentation, which is why I'm sad today. If everything you said was true after that, that's exactly what you suggested, you should be happy, because you're experiencing affirmation now. Your proposal here defends the ruling majority and will most likely be accepted, so you made a mistake in that detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17698	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Honorable representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17699	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm just as sad as my colleague Bernardic, and I will be, today I'll be when we adopt him I'll be happier, but I'd be happier if we adopted him a month and a half ago. So grief is a little smaller today than it was a month and a half ago. Let me explain a little bit to my colleague Pulic, which is why we're sad. When we talk about the Law on Trade, that is, amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, I am not going to refer now because all the discussions are quite fresh, yet a month ago we discussed this same law, so I am not going to talk about how important trade is, how many people are working in trade, how much is the problem with unpaid hours of overtime in trade, because as I said, this law does not solve it. This is done by efficient services, by the State Inspectorate, which solves the implementation of positive Croatian laws, which is what you all together in this House and also state institutions should strive for. So we will not solve the big problem that is happening in Croatian trade with either this law or the amendments to the existing law. As for support, last time I was not in favour of this bill, although certain amendments have been proposed, some have been partially accepted, some have not been accepted, but this time I will be because I think a bad law is being corrected by these amendments. So it's getting a little bit better, which is why I'm going to support these amendments to this law. What's this all about, and what do I think is a fundamental problem here? We had a discussion about this law two months ago, or two months ago, where we were all making our arguments. By ruling that stores should not work between six hours and nine hours later. We have spoken, and now we repeat that we believe that because of the specificity of certain local environments we must allow the possibility that they have the right to determine on their territory the working time of trade. On that side, we've shown consistency, that's what we're saying right now. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition didn't see it then, but here, after a month and a half, fortunately, it saw that the law it had passed was inconclusive and changed that provision. What is disputed to me is that, within such a short time, what is quite logical and now and then, the diametric opposite is interpreted from the government's position and from the position of the ruling party and coalition, I am sorry, that I do not offend Miss Petir. What we need to be aware is that the argument hasn't changed in anything. As someone before me said, the cities, the municipalities, the crafts chamber, and then she warned it would be impertinent. And then she said no, it shouldn't be like that, but unfortunately we didn't listen to them then, but what happened. He came in 1.8, logically in some environments where particular economic activity, commercial activity during the summer was increased, at sea tourists met at 21 o'clock with the fact that the shops were closed and then there was a problem, there was pressure, and then what happens? What is happening is that Prime Minister Sanader's phone call to the government's session calls and changes the law, as if we hadn't discussed it in this House a month before. That's what I think is wrong. I think we must be aware that this Parliament must take into account all arguments for and against, but when it adopts laws they must be implemented. There is no way of making such a negation of the Croatian Parliament. Although I say, in this case, I will support it because I think this provision that is now being amended in the Trade Act is necessary. What was all this about, it's clear to everyone. The government did some trading around the Trade Act. She did a little trade with the unions, a little trade with the church, something with the employers, but unfortunately she didn't trade with the citizens, or she didn't listen to what the citizens needed and didn't listen to what local administration and self-government needed. And when the problem came up, of course it had to be solved. And as some before me have said, the logical thing is that we're changing it now, it's logical now as it was logical then. What I would like to appeal to when the future laws are passed, that the opposition's arguments regarding the law are heard and that good proposals such as the one we're about to adopt today are accepted. And I think that we will then pass better-quality laws that won't then need to be changed by calling by phone from the beach, yacht or from an annual vacation in the middle of the 8th month, harmonize in order for life to go uninterrupted. There's so much about it. I, like most colleagues in the opposition, agree that some things can't be black and white and that some of the injustices of life can't be changed by laws unless the laws are implemented. And I don't think that this law and Sunday's work can be solved both overtime and unfree days can be solved by the Law of Trade, but simply by implementing laws that are already in force. But that's why I'm saying, if trade has increased in the last six to seven years and if there are now 260 thousand people in the store, we've had to adequately give support to the inspector so much as to increase the number of inspectors who can control trade and in some way support to control whether individual employers are not applying regulations, the positive regulations that the Croatian state is now in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17700	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one is Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17701	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, you yourself said that 260 thousand people work at the store and that's a large number and that the number of people who work, day by day, is growing and should be aware of that. And the fact is that this law certainly won't solve these workers' problems, nor can it solve them in this part of Sunday's work. In that part of the agreement, one pact, I would dare say both cosmetically and what is particularly important is that the state be responsible for implementing the law because there is no more important thing that workers in this country who earn their bread by bloody work, feel secure and feel protected and feel protected in doing 40 hours a day. But there's one more thing you've noticed, and I'm going to say that I'm a little bit less sad than I was, but I'm still not happy, and by referring to my colleagues who have been exposed before me. So now, like then, like two or three months ago, we're passing this law by emergency procedure. Not only did we warn that local self-government units should decide, not only would this have a repercusion at the tourist season, but not only did we warn of a whole series of consequences, but we also warned of the urgency of the procedure. Because this isn't European law, there's no reason for it to be an emergency procedure. The fact is that the European laws that concern us and which are very much related to us and reflect on life in Croatia need to pass two readings, no matter what. So two, three months ago, the law was urgently passed to change after three months, and that's what I want to talk about here, that's what I'm warning you about. And we don't want that practice to continue, and that's why we appeal to the government to listen and respect our arguments because all we do is for the benefit of this country and the well-being of the people who live here and all of its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17702	Thank you. Your Honor, a little addition like this. It's not 40 hours a day, it's monthly, for the record. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17703	Thank you very much. I agree with you, colleague Bernardic. Especially important, here I am absolutely sure, this law especially part of Sunday's work comes into effect 1.1, so it hasn't yet entered into force. We're talking about if some law had been passed and there was time for debate and there were two readings, we certainly wouldn't have had this express phone change by the regulation of this working-time provision. So when we talk about it, I agree with you that we could go in two readings so there wouldn't be such a misunderstanding. And the other thing, I'm absolutely sure when Sunday's stores won't be able to work that there won't be any less overtime and they won't solve that problem. That problem will only be solved if the rule of law does its job.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17704	Thank you. And the second correction of the incorrect quote... Replica. Dear Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17705	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, esteemed MPs. Mr. Maras, I think in your debate on this work and the way it's been adopted, I think I'd just like to add more, which is that on the 15th of this law this law was adopted and that amendments were then discussed, including amendments which included an amendment that I signed with the group of the Committee on Tourism. These amendments, which applied to this work from 6.00 to 21.00 hours, were easily rejected. However, when the application began, problems came, and then the government regulation changes that. Today, there's not even three months of it, and we're changing this law. To change the law within three months I don't think it's some problem right now, but there are questions and others in this law that are certainly going to be speeches that aren't like work on Sundays, and they haven't even accepted it, because we also have the dissatisfaction of people who work and those who buy dissatisfaction with these provisions. And in the end, I think the question is important, when will this be resolved too, and whether the government will, in some way, re-negotiate a regulation that, if someone presses it, who is more influential on the government than parliamentary MPs with their amendments, will the same government adopt such a regulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17706	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17707	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleague Bodakosh. Here's to even being precise, the debate was closed on the 14th, the law was passed on on the 15th by 79 MPs, against 47, abstentioned 1. What's this about? It is that the amendment was then rejected, that the situation is taking place that we were not forced to move in such a hurry, because as I said from 1st, most of these provisions apply to work on Sundays and other conditions laid down by law. So 79 MPs supported something and I stand to protect the integrity of these MPs because the government's telephone session, a regulation that was passed at the beginning of the eighth month, has somehow been annulled and erased. That is why I think that when decisions are made sometimes, so when they are already made in the Croatian Parliament, they should be applied, and of course there should be as few people who are not practical. At times, good suggestions for opposition should be taken into account in order to make the laws as high as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17708	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual discussion. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am one of those who, if we vote today or another day on this law, will raise my hand for change, that this law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Trade, but that I am going to raise my hand for these amendments, that will not, of course, prevent me from saying a few sentences as to how I feel about this way on the one hand of adoption and, on the other hand, by the urgent procedure of amending the law. First of all, I would like to ask the Proposer to explain about Article 3 of this bill. It turns out that it does not speak of the fact that by way of effect of this law, a regulation amending and supplementing the Law on Trade ceases to apply. This Regulation shall cease to apply by two laws. It has already ceased to apply under the government's laws and powers to regulate certain issues. It will now cease to apply under the Amendment Act and supplement the Trade Act, so I ask the Proposer to agree with each other or to agree with himself on the law under which the regulation will cease, whether according to this or the other. For us in the SDP, it seems logical that this regulation ceases exactly according to this bill. So I'd like to warn you first. Secondly, when this law was passed somewhere in the middle of the tourist season, it was obvious that it was absolutely not thinking about what effect this law would have on the very tourist season, therefore it was adopted already when the season began and what would happen to the trades with workers, with all those who do and especially in those areas where tourism was specifically developed in summer, which is, of course, our coastal area. In fact, when that law was passed, when it came into effect, it suddenly came to an understanding of what had actually been done. Suddenly, the inspectors set out, of course very intently to control the work of the store and, as some colleagues have said before, to find out that the inspector seems to have, but when these same inspectors need to be at the same stores and see how busy they are, how they work, how they work overtime, they give them work on Sundays, they give them that work on Sundays, so when we talk about it, it turns out that the inspector doesn't have enough. These inspectors were neat and charged fines under the law. I'm asking everyone here now. Who's going to make up for it, I'd say a failure, a poor provision of the law that the government has proposed, and most in this House have passed? What are those merchants, small and large craftsmen, bakers and I don't know what we'll call them all, who got fines, and they're not small, because it's said that if a legal person doesn't comply with the provisions prescribed by the Trade Act, the prescribed penalty of 50 to 250 thousand kuna. So from 50 to 250 thousand kuna, while the penalty for a responsible person moves from 5 to 15 thousand kuna. I'm very interested, maybe one day we'll get the information, how much punishment is charged and how much the budget is charged, so that someone after that, actually. The government, or Ivo Sanader, said at the government's telephone session in mid-summer, they passed a regulation that annulled certain provisions of the Trade Act. I am interested in who, among other things, will make up for the damages that the government has made, or proposed, most of them have passed a harmful law when it comes to tourism or tourism season. Is any of that government gonna answer for that? Answering because the day of the discussion of the law on trade here in this Chamber on the parent board did not want to listen to the comments and arguments that came from the chamber, which came from the Croatian Chamber of crafts, which therefore came from all those associations, which you now imagine by this proposal of the Law the Government is listening anyway. As it's possible that here in two months, someone was saying, we've got a second-guessed mind again. Doesn't it seem to you, colleagues and colleagues, that we have a little too much of that ex-post mind in this country. And do we at all wonder how much such a way of adopting, that is, repealing and amending the provisions of the laws that we are making affect legal certainty, or uncertainty in this country? Not only are those of us who live here, but foreign employers, if anything, foreign employers. To say that the provisions of the Law on Trade will improve the position of our workers, or workers, or whatever you want, is out of your mind. The position of workers and workers in this country can only be improved to strengthen those services in this country that they need and are required by law to take care and ensure that existing legal provisions on the protection of these workers and workers are respected. And that means the provisions on working hours, the provisions on overtime, the paying of overtime, the night work, the work on Sundays, the ways in which it has to be paid. It seems to us every time something on the side, and we think, now we're going to bring a ban on doing something from then until then, that workers or workers will work from 7 to 14 hours a week, in which sense will improve their position? In what way? And will this provision of the law force the inspectors to check and determine whether they were paid by Sunday, first of all, if they were paid? All those who think that's exactly what's going to happen, they're definitely absolutely wrong. With this provision of laws in the middle of the tourist season, consumers and tourists were the most damaged. We who say we're a tourist country. And there's something else I need to point out. Namely, I followed the media signs and everything that happened those days during the ban, but it was forgotten when we were talking on Sundays, you know what actually happened. We, i.e. the Trade Act, which restricted trade hours during the working week, from 6 to 21 hours, and at the same time did not limit trade hours on Sundays, could continue to work all day, as the provisions on Sundays were extended to 1. 1. In 2009. If it's not a clamper, to say so by the state administration, then I don't know what else is going to happen. But when we speak like that and critically, then it turns out that we are attacking the government, but I will personally attack it every time, because of what the laws are, and it proposes the law, as in the current tape, the laws that are primarily the result of various compromises, and it does not consider how the provisions of that law will have an impact on those to which they apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17710	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17711	I thank Mr. Vice President, my colleague said that it was actually harmful, that the Trade Act was passed a few months ago, so in seven months, it was harmful. That's incorrect. This is an incorrect assumption that the law is harmful and that it caused the most damage to tourists. So tourists who come to Croatia are taught in their countries and in the most tourist centers that their shops close at 7:00. You obviously don't travel in Europe. Here I was a few days ago in Strasbourg, at 8:00, all the shops were closed. It's also a tourist town, protected... The centre is one of the largest centers in that western part of France. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these people were taught, and none of them even complained. The other thing is, when you talk about changes to your later mind, I'm going to remind you one more time. You've changed the Constitution twice in three months. You've changed the Constitution twice. And we can't have one provision of the law that was consistent with the economic and social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17712	Replica. Now you, Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17713	I agree, fellow Soble, when you talk about the damage caused by the government, every government, but when it's no use, it shouldn't hurt, at least that's the minimum. But this is an opportunity that you have made very good here in your speech to talk not only about working time, but about working hours, to talk about the drama of Croatian workers, whose position was discussed several years ago by the International Conference in Geneva, where the conclusion of this conference is unanimous, that nowhere in Europe, a worker is not ready to work so much for such a small salary and for so little rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17714	Replication response, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17715	I will repeat what I said and in my presentation, which is that the government is passing laws that cause damage. They cause damage, I'm sorry, during the period during which the provisions of the Trade Act were valid, they are damaged, if you won't say they are damaged or you won't admit tourists, consumers or I don't know who, but the traffickers are damaged. And directly because of that, those who worked in these shops are also damaged. I'm sorry, they were damaged and brought into an unequal position, they were, because they paid the fines, the inspectors went neatly, they paid the fines, and those who got through, they made it through, "papala machete" someone would say. And I will continue to claim that it is harmful, but it is even more harmful, and I will repeat it, because of the legal uncertainty that such a way of passing and amending the law is causing in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17716	Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17717	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, I sincerely hoped that the Secretary of State as a representative of the motion in the opening part of the interpretation of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Trade would say that it was wrong. To say that it was wrong and that these changes correct the mistake that was made. Why am I saying that? I am speaking for reasons why, in the first reading, the Committee on Tourism unanimously proposed that the power to determine the working time of the store and other forms of trade be left to local self-government units means to municipalities and cities. That a similar opinion was given by the Ministry of Tourism, which is an integral part of the government. That amendments were also submitted by representatives who are members of the Committee, part of the representatives of the Committee on Tourism, as well as by other representatives exclusively or linked to the exact working time of the trade that was set until 21 hours. But all these arguments were not accepted and what we know was in force in that part of the 15 days, and it was changed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a regulation. Here I am going to say that the first one would not have come forward for discussion that I have received one such as to say the argument that it was wrong but unfortunately this has also been left with these amendments and the additions to the laws that are before us for sure can be supported, I can support myself because the proposal has just been accepted that units of local self-government determine working time within that range of 6 to 24 hours, but I would certainly be obliged to listen more to the views of both the working bodies and the representatives who want to correct their amendments the text of the bill and the Law on Trade. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17718	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to say number one, I'm not unhappy today. Probably because I didn't listen to the biometeorological forecast as a colleague of the SDP, and they were told there that they were going to feel bad today. But that's a bad idea to inspire moral disciplines some of which, some might see here in the name of the club what a colleague used to say as a contribution to a new edition of the Bible, I think it's a preface somewhere, right? So why am I not, please, why am I not unhappy? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Because we change the law by listening to the voice of the people. I think it's the size of both government and parliament to change the law, not to stick to it, not to some extent stubborn and so forth, so just to show our greatness. That's what we can do. But what I'm hearing here on my right, even though there's a left, that reminds me a little of that potato story in Međimurje. When a potato gives birth well to poor producers, when, because it's cheap. When a potato gives birth badly, right, then the poor customers because it's expensive. So I know we have three groups here, they're shop owners, buyers, sellers. Everyone from their point of view can tell a lot of stories, right, but let's just give it a little bit if we swear to people, let's just give it a little thought about these salesmen that here we've heard of fellow Doric don't have a single day off. I agree here that the inspection needs a much stronger response. Here again is the matter of inspection, of their salaries and of the others and of who goes to the inspectors and who won't go to the inspectors and so on. It's a special debate. But let's protect all those who have to work Sundays because they have to work Sundays because Sundays didn't work until 2 o'clock so I don't know, let's say one shift, but all day long. Therefore, all employees work on a daily basis or on Sundays. And the fee, if we're talking about a fair fee for Sunday's work is 50, 60, 70, max 80 kuna. I talked to a number of store employees who said, "For that money, you'd rather stay home." Therefore, it is not a stimulant. I agree that many other professions work on Sundays, but they don't work every Sundays. And right in the big department stores, especially employees work every Sunday. Just ask a little question. They just don't work very well. The other thing is that it can be arranged: Now we have a volunteer, so come on, these can't, these can't, but I don't think there's a deal. According to that, I'm glad to see you here even though your colleagues say you need more and more. I agree, local self-government has, she's been given the authority here and it's a good thing she's been given the authority. I think the local self-government did a good job when we introduced the department stores. I think it worked very well on the same Sunday. So we can talk about everything. We're here to improve the law and I believe we'll improve it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17720	Thank you. A few replicas. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Markovanovic mentioned a biometheological forecast. I'm very glad that we've come to these dimensions now, and let's say in the weather it's been a few thousand years, during the summer, the day lasts a little longer. And we warned that this kind of working time in tourist areas, I come from one of these, will cause problems for people. And now you said you listened to the voice of the people. What was said very clearly in the debate in July is that the opposition was the voice of the people, and you were the voice of one, one policy that wanted to kind of rape things in some way, so let's say it's going to work until 9 and it can't go on. And even from your ranks, the mayors of tourist cities warned and disobeyed them. So here, I am glad that the ruling coalition has decided to take the status of penitents and correct what they are in some way, what they have done in some way is a little wrong. The people who pay the fines will pay the fines. And it doesn't matter. I guess there'll be more laws like that that we'll have to fix. I certainly believe that no matter what biometeorological forecast these days or the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17722	Replication response. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17723	I didn't get involved. I just have to tell my colleague that his weather forecast doesn't determine the length of the day. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17724	Second replica, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17725	Thank you very much. My colleague Markovinović, I am asking you and the other MPs who will today debate not to justify the adoption of this law on Sundays in reducing overtime and protecting workers. Because if so and who will protect the workers defined in Article 60? And these are newsstands, flowers and candles. Gas stations. Then why are we making an exception with these workers? Which is why, then, we make an exception to all those who work on Sundays. Well, we can't protect Mr. Markovanovic by passing one of these laws, because that's not how it's done. This is done by the actions of state institutions in this case of inspectorates who have to exercise supervision, and after supervision they must submit applications and then pay for the violations of those who abuse Croatian workers. So please don't, because it has nothing to do with this. It's got nothing to do with the Trade Act. They have some other laws such as the Labour Act and others that apply and define that area in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17726	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17727	So a colleague compares something that is not for comparison, because if he compares the number of employees in the store and the number of others will see that the number of others who work at the pumps is very small compared to the number of employees in the store. So let's remember, there was always 12, 24, 12, 48 on the railroad. So, after work, people had two days off. And here we've heard, you claim to have spoken to the employees that they don't have a single day off. So let's not mix it up, the others when they get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17728	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with my colleague that the inspectorate could be even more effective in monitoring everything that's going on, in stores and respecting rights. But I can't agree with all those who are actually trying to convince us today that there's no union, that people are scared to say what's happening to them with their rights. It's simply incorrect and it's not, in a way it has nothing to do with the truth. The unions are very defensive of the rights of workers and workers themselves know how to defend their rights. So, with the claims we've heard today in the debate, I absolutely disagree. The second thing is that this law, this amendment to the law, is to be passed in a very short time, that they should then listen to their voice from the opposition, etc. forgetting that the bill was both a compromise and a consensus and an agreement between the government and the social partners, between the government and the employers' unions and the Chamber of Commerce at the time. So they simply forget that it's a matter of agreement at that point. After that, after the law began to apply, it was clear that the need to solve this problem with local self - administration was seen in the way we are dealing with it today. And therefore truly strangely, it is especially surprising of those who have changed the Constitution twice in only 3 months, when they say that in a short time some law is being changed, and forget that only in three months, they changed the Constitution twice, which we have never changed since, then it is clear what it is – pure politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17730	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the law I would say about working time trade is, in fact, a bill of law, that is, a law that has very sensitized our public. In fact, that is one thing I would say in public among citizens is a question that is very often mentioned and which is the subject of numerous conversations. Why is that? Because there are 260,000 employees in the store, and clearly there are more family members associated with them times, say, three or three and a half, and then there are about 700 to 800,000 people who are interested in this issue. Similarly, the government and everyone else in charge had to listen to the voice of all interested ones. So both trade unions and employers and citizens of consumers, i.e. Customers, as well as the voice of the public who came from church lines when this law was being made. Of course it tried to escape a little bit of responsibility, and then it transferred a little to the Croatian Parliament, and then the regulation came, the dribble left between... It was going to be what they say “wolve sieve and goat on the number. ” [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we have come to the final one of the laws that has been crystallized in a way that allows local self-governments to determine the working time of the store according to article 3 of Sunday. Article 58(3) "in the period from 1 June to 1.10", so I can work on Sundays. So I can and don't have to, but it says I can on Sundays. Working hours start at 7.00 a.m. on Sundays, according to the bill, ending no later than 14.00 a.m. So, somehow, it decentralized this one hot to say public potatoes or public hot potatoes on local self-government. It is clear that there is one I would say medical indication that in tourist areas, what they say is “working full steam” during the period from 1 June to 1 October. But I wonder how, what consequences this provision will produce on trade in that continental part of Croatia. Not to mention Slavonia and Baranja. It would be better if something else had been decentralised like fiscal decentralisation. But this time it's business hours on Sundays. I'll be very clear and very specific. So if in one town of 80,000 residents there are 12 stores or chains of departments and all 12 weeks of work, they will ask for leave to work on Sundays, and if it is known that in the summer months there is a decline in traffic, that it is much smaller than in some other months due to vacations, because of going on and on trips, because of one to say dead people that occur on the continent at that time, because of going to work temporarily in tourist areas. Is it really necessary for all 12 department stores to work on Sundays in these parts? The other day, Mr. Biskupić appealed to the development of environmental awareness among citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who would or might be able to break the Western Medvednica as a park of nature. Are we going to call and count on those who are in the primary accumulation phase of capital to be conscious, to become aware that it is not necessary for all 12 slave houses, say in Slavonski Brod for Sundays. So it was left to the local self-government. Furthermore, what are the consequences of such provisions and of this bill? There will be a charm, a charm from the municipality to the municipality, from town to town and from county to county in the working hours of some shops, shops, shops. In any case, this bill is an improvement after all of those, I say the peripetia of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would say the regulation of the sea, so from that first vote that went on 79:47 plus one abstention. Of course, this is an improvement, but I say for the consequences especially in some parts of employees employed in these departments, in chains that have 260 thousand I am not convinced that all of this, which will produce, clearly in all of them, but I think that the buyers, so those citizens who are interested in buying Sundays, can be satisfied and in the way I have suggested, but this remains conscious, I say only on the awareness of the one who determines that working time in local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17732	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17733	I don't replicate the content of what you said, but I simply replicate the need for both your and many of our colleagues today who say that you are repeating the debate you had at the last session. It's not a criticism to you, it's a criticism to us who have agreed to such a humiliating situation as we are in today. So, at the last session, we had a debate, we had the same arguments that we're making today, forced to repeat that debate. Why? Because the government has decided to undo what we talked about here, what we voted after 10 days of everything after that debate deeply offended and humiliated this Parliament and that is the measure of things. Here is no longer a question, they could make a decision to gold, gold Croatia. She'd be bad because she insulted Parliament. I'm looking at my colleagues on the other side that I have a lot of respect for, and I'm uncomfortable about them and the situation they've been brought into. Only a month and a half ago in the last session were the kind of arguments forced to do so. Now we're in a situation where they have to make other arguments, the same arguments they've been attacking. It's frustrating, it's humiliating, that's what I see as a problem when we're discussing and I'd shut down a respected colleague as far as I'm concerned. We have also spoken of what is regulated in this law at the last session, and colleagues who are forced and forced to change their minds, let them say why. But if I wasn't mean, nothing would have happened to the government if she'd admitted that she made a mistake and it's not smart and good here in any way to justify it, and even bring in the bile as we hear here from these colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17734	Thank you. Answer or what? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17735	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. According to Article 209, this replica following my discussion has nothing to do with the content of my debate. What does a general replica of some kind apply to all of us?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17736	... Which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] A representative can speak in a replica almost anything he wants. I mean, we've accepted that principle, so he can talk about what he wants. The other thing is, I think it's not humiliating to do what's in the interest of Croatian citizens, but it is. Okay, we still have Mr. Luke Denon's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17737	Respect, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, here I would agree with my colleague Davorko Vidovic that the measure of things is actually to end this debate because the arguments that some of us have defended such a bad law, some who wanted to fix it, have long been said in the last session and that it is really unnecessary to waste time today. However, in order for us to not be able to repeat such a thing so that this House and those people who propose amendments to the law in some way would come on their own and that at least in that part of respect, I think we still need this debate today, and even with this tone as it is today. Assumption is, what I at least think, perhaps you'll correct me, I'm not some great legal person who knows that the purpose of any lawmaking is to arrange in the best possible way one area of work, the actions of the lives of us citizens living in this Croatia. It is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and those who wrote the Law on Trade despite numerous objections, despite the fact that even then the Czech associations appeared, despite the fact that even then if the representative voice, the voice of some people, was a lot of critical tones and, I would say, in order to improve this law and to get closer to life itself, it was obvious that the government, or representatives of the government who defended such a law, had not heard. It's interesting that when they didn't hear it then, here we heard now from our colleagues who were forced to defend such an amendment to the law that the government later received hearing, so there's a deaf government who didn't hear it when she needed to hear it, so she got word somewhere in the summer and then she brought in a regulation that proved that, not that there was no hearing, but that still, let's hear something a little bit. Hearing is something else, and hearing is something else. It is also interesting to explain that this law was passed by consensus of all social partners. I agree that the laws should also be adopted by consensus of the social partners, I agree that the laws must also be passed in a way that interested activities are also consulted and respected, but it is obvious that the consensus lasted only ten days. Because when it didn't come to a consensus, by means of a regulation, that consensus was annulled anywhere, I didn't hear that these social partners had at least called, if anything else was to show that they were at least a little offended that they were respecting the fact that they had a consensus with the government. It's gone this summer, I know it's been hot, but there's still a way to say that how it works isn't good. Also, the speechfulness of such a bad law is, in some ways, justified by me. I think every law should be if it's good to defend it, but it seems to me that today's fighting that also represents and defends changes and additions to that law is not welcome and that it was the smartest thing to say, you know, we've made a mistake because it's human and we're wrong and we're changing that law and we're not discussing much about it. Unfortunately, there's something under the company of something that the Trade Act said most about working hours. Unfortunately, it tried to get to the unions, it tried to get to the church, but it didn't work out in either one, or in the other and today it's trying just as loudly, I'd call it like a colleague who doesn't have one, so I won't mention it, said it's hypocritical that now we're trying to say that the law was bad. It is also hypocritical for this assembly speaker to say that the decree has been reached that it will not work on Sundays. It's hypocritical because it won't work for half a year, it's forgotten to say. We've been taking care of our citizens or fellow citizens who work on Sundays for half a year, and we don't care. I think a country that's been taking care of its people for half a year, and half a year isn't exactly a good country, it's a stepmom. It's just like when we hypocritically abolished the 0.0 bill, but then I sit with 0.2 sober and then after 100 meters stop me and then I'm suddenly drunk and then the law's no good anymore, then I'm drunk, of course. Disrespecting workers' rights, and what happens in trade, we will not achieve a labour ban. I'll paraphrasise, every state that forbids work, you know it has to work. Like the sailors used to say, you have to sail and work. And this hypocritical ban so that we can make out, something we've accomplished, and we've banned Sunday's work that's not true. I'd just say that people will understand best. You know, pregnant can be not a little, or pregnant or not pregnant. So either we ban Sundays or we don't be hypocritical, and then we say we banned it, and yet half a year we still let it be done on Sundays. I am also glad that it is trying to respect local self-government and that in some ways it is allowed that local self-government then regulates working time in its area as required by both those who work and how citizens and local self-government require, because it is a need. Today it is necessary to work both on Sundays as likely to go shopping as citizens go shopping then you would see that Sunday’s shopping malls are full. So there's a need, and that's why I'm here, not to be a hypocrite, but to really get down there and look at what's really happening in life. And now it's good that we've given local self-government time to determine. Yes, but did we protect workers or workers who work in these large centers and who are being scolded? No, we didn't protect it. And what happens now? The local self-government will, of course, say the need to work, but the workers will still be unprotected in these malls or shops or shops, and it would be wise to give local self-government the right to determine working time, give them the right to also oversee the Labour Act and give them an inspectorate to oversee the Labour Act, to see if all rights of workers are respected in their midst. I am sure that so much money in the budgets of local self-government units if the state is already gone, if the state is already gone, will be found to be paid by inspectors who will then oversee such one work and then from that work both on black or non-respect or free Saturdays or Sundays will be less and less and less. And of course, that false concern for workers could also be defined in a closer way to those who work downstairs. So every law that's not good has to change, and I'm up for it that when a mistake is admitted, that such a law changes. But I'm not for it that when the law comes to debate in this Croatian House, then the opposition or people who are trying to fix in good faith some law is belittled, but then, in about 15 days later, it's been said that it wasn't good, now we've done this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17738	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17739	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague incorrectly stated that none of the social partners reacted in public after the government changed this part of the labour-time law through a regulation. That's incorrect. Obviously, you did not follow what was happening in public, because union representatives clearly opposed that change. So, because really that proposal that we had in July was the result, once again, of agreements and compromises and consensus with the social partners. And what the government has now done and transferred responsibility to local self-government to settle the matter of working time on its own. Maybe some decide to be working hours by 8:00, not 9:00. That's their thing now. Like I said, let's say there's a case in Strasbourg that's the same tourist center. Maybe that's what it is. Someone may be up to 12 a.m. by midnight, and maybe by 8:00, it all depends on the local self-government unit. So we think that this move is really in favor of the people who will edit it themselves in the season, that is to say, settle the matter of working time for the store according to what they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17740	Thank you. Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? Here you go. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17741	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I would kind of open my closing word with a sentence just like you, Mr. President, that nothing is and can and must not be humiliating, if it is the interest of Croatian citizens and that is why we are here today. Whether we call it the voice of the people, whether we call it the voice of the public, whether we call it the day of Croatian citizens if today is and if this change is in their interest, then nothing, absolutely nothing is humiliating. Today, it is not humiliating for the government to propose changes resulting from the appeal that led 19 cities to make their individual decisions. Well this is also an indication that cities and municipalities are satisfied with the kind of worktime arrangement that was adopted in this House in July this year. Out of the total of cities and municipalities, we have 19 changes in the general act of units of local self-government. So our national working time arrangement from 6 to 21 is still in use today, with a change to 19 units of local self-government. We heard today that we were both sad and happy. If today and today's change is something that pleases both our consumers and our economy and all of us as a whole, then let's take it under one common denominator, common denominator of emotions and compromises. However, we also heard that the government was deaf and she did not listen. If the government was deaf and did not listen, how the government managed to hear, say, the amendments that the SDP had just proposed and entered the law. We may have been deaf, but we weren't deaf anyway. If we were deaf, then we wouldn't hear that voice to the public in August who said give us another alternative, give us another chance. And we gave it away. And does it matter now did we get it off the yacht, the beach? We gave it up. The Prime Minister has these powers, the Prime Minister has his powers under the Rules of Procedure, he has given the order to respect that vote, and that is why we are here today. And let's not link the location of the warrant to the fact that the government's legal right is ultimately authorized by the government to intervene with its regulation if necessary. We made it. It doesn't matter where that intervention came from, and what time it was and what biometeorological forecast it was. In the end, we heard about this Law of Trade that it was a pull-out. There's something else, there's pull, pull, and cut. It's the 2003 Trade Act. So when you ask me what model to compensate for the damage to this Trade Act, I'll tell you by the same legal model, which makes up for the damage to the 2003 Trade Act. And as for our future hearing, yes, we will listen to future and best examples from practice, some former ministers who work as the judiciary sits today in parliamentary benches, all the best examples from former practice when overtime at the store were obviously effectively charged. The State Inspectorate has never worked better, the trade unions were strong, when the social state was in its bloom, in the implementation of the Law on Trade and other laws that were mentioned today. We will be happy to listen to all the proposals, all the positive experiences and effective implementation that respected, esteemed, respected parliamentary representatives as former ministers during the performance of their mandate can share with us today. I thank you again for a very constructive debate and according to today's tone of debate, I wish you a good rest of the weekend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17742	Thank you. We've got corrections. It's Mr. Luke Denon first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17743	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that it's not humiliating, it's not true that it's not humiliating for you, for me and for some of the people in this House it's humiliating to pass one bad law and to have this one bad law that we warned would bring to this right now, one regulation then says it's all right. You listened to what I said, because obviously you're fine, thank you, you admitted that you were a little deaf because you accepted an amendment from the SDP. If you had accepted all the amendments the opposition gave, then I would have said, 'Come on, you hear well and listen to the voice of the people, and then this would not have happened today.'
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17744	Thank you. I'm sorry to call the Rules of Procedure one more time. Namely, this recognition of sin or colloquial confession is not foreseen in the Rules of Procedure, so we can use it in the argument, but it does not exist as a category. And secondly, being hypocritical, also general these characteristics are not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, but that does not mean that they cannot be used in the debate. But still, the Rules of Procedure here is our little constitution, so somehow, I'm asking that we be here a little bit within the framework of several Rules of Procedures. Here, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17745	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the secretary of state that it's humiliating when the government changes the proposal. We're not talking about it, it's not humiliating. I agree that this... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17746	Please release Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17747	I repeat, it's not humiliating when the government changes and we don't talk about it from the bench. It is humiliating when the Prime Minister accuses that the parliament has passed a bad law and that he saves it by regulations. That's what we say is humiliating.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17748	There's no correcting an incorrect quote, but there's... Now it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm warning you, don't be incorrect, if you're not sure the Rules of Procedure has been injured, please. Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17749	Thank you, Mr. President. The Rules of Procedure were injured in Article 209 because a colleague, Linic, did not correct the incorrect allegations, as the lady just said it was not humiliating. That's what the lady said, it's not humiliating. And you said, "I confirm it." So you didn't correct the incorrect quote because she said so.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17750	We've agreed on what's the correction to the incorrect assumption. It's like this. Mr. Representative said that, and that's what he said wrong, and I'm saying it's not that. It's that. This is the correcting of an incorrect allegation. But how extensively we're actually interpreting everything, then what we're going to do here. Mrs. Anticevic-Marinovic also has a correction to the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17751	Inaccurately, the State Secretary claimed that whatever she was doing, here I quote: "It is all in the interest of Croatian citizens" So this bill also speaks and testifies that the law was not originally passed, the law that came into place in the middle of the summer season that we are now changing was in the interest of Croatian citizens, but for Croatian citizens for a part, especially and alone for those small employers who had to be immediately derailed by the system that had to pay the fine. So, Madam Secretary of State, don't defend the Government as a sinless one in this regard, but let the Government know that even though you have characterized it yourself as a deaf government, ask them which counter you can pay for the damage you've caused them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17752	This is a typical example of how you can't accept it as a correction to an incorrect quote, because you're correcting the claim. You're correcting a claim that can be like this. How do you know exactly? I must say, I am correcting that, not what the citizens will do and how the citizens will react and how they will react, so please, we must return to the framework of the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 170. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the IDS Representatives' Club. I would like Mr Obradović Mazal, State Secretary, to make a statement on the amendment of the IDS Club to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17754	Thank you. The government does not accept the amendment on the grounds that this bill regulates working hours from Monday to Saturday. Working hours on Sundays and holidays have already been regulated by the Law on Trade in an appropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17755	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17756	I don't see any reason to restrict work on Sundays just because it's left to local self-government units, meaning municipalities and cities to regulate working hours, so I think it was necessary to leave the right to set time on Sundays. So please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17757	Who is for this amendment please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. Please, who's in favor of this law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the vote is 100 votes in favour of, 5 against and 3 abstentions to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. Here we move to: - Proposal for a law in architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 167 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Minister Marina Matulović Dropulic. So, the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17759	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So I will just say very briefly and remind you that the Law on spatial planning and construction was passed last year, that this year we have passed the Law on Construction Products and, in fact, now with this proposal of the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, we are completing legislation that is in full compliance with the regulations of the Member States of the European Union, and what is particularly important to say is that when Croatia enters the European Union, these laws will no longer have to be amended. In this bill of law, we have settled the basic issues. This means performing the professional activities of spatial planning, performing design and professional supervision activities, performing construction activities, managing the construction project, which is something new and joining the chamber, i.e. professional chambers and solving the problem of granting consent to all those who can start building certain facilities. This law has been made, as I said, in a way that is consistent with all the Member States of the European Union. We have so far had this activity covered by three laws, this is now the first time it's included in one law, which we think will be much better and simpler, especially for people who do these jobs and deal with it. As for professional association at the request of the current chamber and architects and engineers in the construction industry, we propose the formation of five chambers. So every profession de facto of its chamber, if there are many, very many people, and therefore it is necessary that architects have their own, builders of their own, electricians of their own, engineers of their own and geodes of their own. So we think that in this way they will be able to organize themselves better that they will be able to better monitor the situation in their activities. To date, we have participated in this debate and negotiations and with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Association of Employers, the Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction, means all those who need and unions in particular, and the Construction Union, and the Croatian Association of trade unions, means all those who have something to say about this bill. And I have to say that we got full support, we've accepted a lot of their proposals, especially as far as the construction work is concerned, because you know that we had a regulation that, under the law so far, was talking about consent being given to start construction work. We're licenses, so we call them short, we've already issued, we've already reached about 3,000 and 200 companies to which we've issued these consents. But at their request, we added some other categories, for example. We had between 15 and 60 employees, according to our builders, one specific hole, so we added, we added 30 more workers and another part where we had 60 to 120, we added 80 employees, so that people by these categories will be able to get better involved in their work and better perform certain jobs, and it is also important to say that this time we included in their proposal the amounts to which certain builders can carry out jobs related to the number of employees. What we didn't accept and what we can't accept is that so-called the engineering of companies that are actually with us so far and we don't have in our law that they contract jobs without construction workers, we can't accept it, they also have the right and can do design work, if they have people, work surveillance, can manage the project in a way that the investor trusts them to do the work, but only those who have construction employees can deal with it. This was especially welcomed by the construction union, therefore, I believe we have all agreed with them both here and in writing. As this law is in the first reading, of course we'll listen to everything you're suggesting, and if necessary, add some more things. Therefore, we have time, this is a serious law, but we have time to discuss it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17760	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The president of the Space Committee, right? All right. So he doesn't want any committee? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17761	Mr. President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I speak on behalf of the HDZ Club but cannot justify my personal position against the proposal of the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction. Given the fact that it regulates the legal framework of the profession that I've been working on for a long time and I'm ensuring my family's existence, and I hope it will take a long time. According to the bill of this law and under much better conditions than ever before. The basis of my optimism is in the way this bill is created and it shows a significant shift, in communication between those who pass laws and those to whom the laws apply. The preparation of this law marked the good co-operation of the proposings with professional institutions and individuals, representatives of trade unions and employers, and, of course, with the practice of the European Union countries in order to be at the level of standards and those we will soon join in this segment of the legislative regulation of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to finding that this law is rounding and completing legal regulatory spatial planning and construction issues, the HDZ Club particularly assesses several newspapers of this bill and responds to the situation in everyday practice. In the first instance, this refers to the giving of the necessary importance to chambers, architects and engineers in construction, as well as to the emphasis on importance and border contracts. For the first time, the concept of the activity of managing a project of construction and regulation is introduced in a way significantly different from that of the so far legally unregulated practice in which manipulations of different species were almost always possible. The licensing of builders is significantly adapted to the real needs of the Croatian market and to European practice. This is also accompanied by regulation of the conditions of work of foreign architects and engineers on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The obligation to provide insurance and builders is introduced, not just architects, penalties for non-compliance with the law are very rigorous and thus commit chambers to more responsible behaviour with regard to granting and confiscation of labour powers. This bill wide opened the door of the office to architects and engineers in construction, so... This bill has wide open doors for architects and construction engineers, and supervision of the quality of their work should be adequately present. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, the proposal for this law to read second can be further squeezed in its fines, but I would already like to highlight the need to highlight the topic of construction heritage in a way that is quite justified, in the text of the bill introduced concern for landscape values. Personally, I would like to replace the term of construction with the concept of construction, because it is more content and better interpreted by the works of architectural engineering design especially because they are significantly present in the text of the law but not in its title. I would also like to illustrate the study of this bill by stating the text of Article 5, which states: “The terms used in this law for persons of male origin are neutral and refer to male and female persons. ” So the lawmaker even had a sensitivity to gender equality. The HDZ Club assesses the draft law on architectural, engineering and spatial planning activities in this first reading worth adopting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17762	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17763	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President, for your honors and for your representatives, the honourable representatives of the government. At the very beginning of this presentation on the draft law on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, I would like to stress that the SDP club and representatives will support the adoption of this law which regulates the implementation of professional affairs, spatial arrangements, design and professional supervision of construction, the construction and management of construction and association projects in the professional associations of architects and architects and engineers and engineers, the implementation of administrative and other procedures, and the rights and obligations of the body of the state administration, legal and physical persons in connection with those tasks and aligns domestic legislation with the legal property of the European Union in this area. We think it's a good thing that the proposer is, despite the law with the P.Z.E. label. However, he decided on two readings of this bill. In the SDP, we believe that it is an extremely important law, so in this sense we hope that until the second reading there will be some weak spots for this bill. In the SDP, we hope that the applicant will respect our remarks because we believe this law would become better and would comply with horizontal and vertical domestic legislation as well as with European conventions. At the very beginning, I would once again warn the promoter, and this is the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Spatial Planning and Construction, just as I did in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Construction Products, that the authorities of the State Administration are in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality in documents produced by the use of the natively sensitive language. I remind you that the Law on Gender Equality, which we have recently recently adopted in this House, is an organic law, and as such is a higher law than the law we are discussing today. Again, I warn that Article 5 of this law directly provides for the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality which bind the authorities of the state administration to respect the natively sensitive language. In view of the fact that this bill is a quality document, we find it regrettable that the applicant was unable to write this document in a way that respects an organic law such as the Law on Gender Equality. We must by no means reconcile ourselves with avoiding the use of natively sensitive expressions because it seems easier or less complicated to write the law. The use of natively sensitive language is an extremely important instrument for really suppressing discrimination and inequality of women in Croatian society. Especially when we're discussing bill proposals like this and somehow, in itself, they're viewed as some form of male political linen. Of course, unlike those on social issues that are considered female subjects. I stress that using the native language in the laws speaks about the determination of the administration to successfully combat gender stereotypes and, unfortunately, very widespread patriarchal prejudices. We therefore hope that by the second reading, the Proposer will remove this rash article of the law and use the native sensitive language in the law. The second observation refers to the content of the text of the law itself. Although the law bears the name of the Act on Architecture and Engineering and activities in spatial planning and construction, it cannot be seen that this law is rooted according to the measures of architects, and much less according to the measures of other engineering professions, although some of them would, in particular, have a significantly greater importance and role in creating spatial and planning documents. For example, in Article 6 of the Law, I quote: "The professional affairs of spatial planning as the responsible manager of the draft document proposal can be carried out by a natural person who has the right to use the professional name authorised architect in accordance with this law." The end of the quote. The fact is that in Croatia urbanists and urbanists and architects and architects and architects are treated as the same profession I would say in jutura and so the Faculty of Architecture in Zagreb is produced by engineers and architecture engineers but not urbanists or urbanists. If someone wants to specialize in extremely important urban orientation, they will have to enroll in postgraduate studies at the same university and this is not a very stimulating climate for the development of urban promotion. And urbanism differs significantly from the achievement of the architectural profession in its part-round and objectives. The urban or spatial planning profession is much wider than the architectural one and the objectives of these two professions can even be in great conflict. While the architectural profession seeks to build an urban or spatial planing profession, it must seek to establish harmony and balance between the requirements for building and developing economic potentials and the need to preserve space and natural resources as the most valuable wealth of rope and wider communities. Unfortunately, we are not sure whether this bill will contribute to this goal, given that the trend of neglecting the importance of urbanism and spatial planning continues in favour of the architectural profession. Urbanism and spatial planning are namely multidisciplinary professions that require that knowledge of the architectural and construction professions and of the social and long-term economic needs and interests, geography, ecology, biology, demographics, requirements for biodynamic, biodynamic development and so forth. We are afraid that favoring the architectural profession at the expense of urban and spatial planning professions can have extremely great negative consequences on the situation in Croatia in particular in the coastal area and we are well aware that the situation with the space in Croatia is catastrophic. Manipulations of spatial plans that, especially in the last 5 years, have taken a large wave especially in the Adriatic extremely valuable area could get an even bigger swing if the urban and space-planner profession is completely abandoned and covered, suppresses the architectural profession, and what is a visible trend in Croatia. This trend is not only seen from the fact that the spatial-planned documents in Croatia in most cases mean not urbanists and urbanists and spatial planners or spatial planners but architects and architects, but also the situation with the Croatian Urbanist Institute, who, instead of actively working to promote and perfect the urban profession, are engaged in commercial production of spatial and planning documents or serve as a cabinet for professors from the Faculty of Architecture in Zagreb. There is no idea in the Office for Spatial Planning, although it is governed by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of 2007 and we are afraid that it is not up to the Croatian Government to promote the spatial and urban profession. Article 6 of this Act is unspecified in the sense of authorising the production of spatial-planned documents by foreign urban and spatial-planner experts or experts if they have acquired degrees from these professions in their own countries and domestic universities which do not have to be under the same cap as architects and as is the case with us. In the same article of the law, we also talk about who can do the work of spatial planning as an associate or associate in the making of documents, and I quote: “In part of his profession he can perform a physical person technical: architecture, transport, construction, electrical engineering, engineering, geodesy and others. Natural science: Geography, Biology, Ecology and other. And social: law, economy, sociology, demographics and other professions and so on." End quote. We stress that among these professions there is no mention of persons coming from the relatively new profession of urban forestry or general forestry and urban forestry can be studied today at home universities such as no mention of the biotechnical profession, which is: landscape architects and architects who are now not so small yet, and since the study of landscape architecture was launched at the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb ten years ago. It is of paramount importance that landscape architects and architects be introduced into Article 6 of the Law, since, among other things, this addition to the law we are discussing today would be brought into line with the provisions of related laws and conventions, such as the already mentioned Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, Article 28, Statute of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction in accordance with Article 19 and the Convention on European Areas, Article 5. These are concrete remarks that the Club of Representatives has on the proposal of this text of the law. But we will take this opportunity to re-warn the weak spots of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which is the roof law of this law that we are discussing today. This primarily refers to difficulties that many particularly small or smaller investors have when building permits come in line with the provisions of this year's passed law. As the Proposer in the opening section explained to us this law and made it precisely because the unification of these laws, the separate Construction Act, was put out of force, and the new uniform law did not cover provisions relating to the problem of architectural and engineering activity in spatial planning and construction. A year is a relatively short time. Yet, the new united law has proved to have many weaknesses. This should certainly mention the obligation to build a nine-metre access road by investors of buildings, which in large numbers makes it impossible for investors to obtain permits. In view of this but also of the many other remarks and problems that this roof law has been causing in practice, we hope that the Government will soon refer to the parliamentary procedure amendments and additions to last year's voted Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in order to bring its content into line with the state and situation in Croatia. In the opening part of the bill, the Proposer stressed that this document continues to reform Croatia's system, spatial planning and construction. But we must not care what this reform will be, because the reform should cause a positive change, but it can often, unfortunately, also cause a deterioration of the situation. The basic objectives in the adoption of laws in this area certainly need to be protection and reflection, management or management of space as our most valuable resource, moving to quality and preferably sustainable construction, which we cannot exactly boast in practice, and simplifying the procedure of entering permits in order to avoid the emergence of new illegal construction, so that the construction inspection finally begins to work and what it does is a business of monitoring the quality of construction, rather than hunting for the unjust that it has been dealing with for years. We hope, therefore, that the government will be actively working to promote and raise the quality of urban and space-planner professions in the future, because our quality of spatial plans is also one of the burning problems that we face as a transition society. In this regard, we hope that the Proposer will carefully consider our objections to this law and make the necessary adjustments until the second reading in order to receive our trust in the common objective – effective protection and prudent management of space as our most valuable resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17764	We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17765	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this Proposal for a law on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, it all comes down to the fact that project management operations are assigned exclusively to architects of architectural and construction profession without the ability to do so by engineers of the engineering profession or some other professions, which is, in particular, absurd in the case of the execution of metal structures that are highly represented in various areas of industry, transport and the like. As a contribution, we can give a letter and the opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Architects and Engineers in Construction and Deans of all engineering colleges in Croatia that disagree with the Croatian Government's opinion that engineers of engineering do not meet the professional conditions to carry out design and professional supervision of engineering steel structures. Anyway, the problem is very pronounced. Since it explicitly read negatively about it, all of the most structural structures were read, and this is in fact another form of monopolization being carried out for the benefit of the IGH, the Institute of Construction of Croatia, or Minister Dropulić, Jure Radic, and everything under quotes is done in accordance with the European Union. Turns out they're all unprofessional -- deans, colleges, experts. Only some officials at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning are experts in the knowledge of the law in the area of construction in the European Union. There is a particularly interesting issue of participation in our market for abroad designers. Under the bill, for example, a man could be in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, etc. Register the office and compete equally with our designers regardless of profession. So, uh... experts in engineering, electrical engineering and so forth directs that if they want to work on our market they go outside to start design companies and only then return with the right to compete. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In one word, it's amazing. Since this is the first reading of the law, there will be still opportunities to discuss it. However, I would now like to emphasise these problems and the unacceptable proposals of the Croatian government in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17766	Thank you very much. And the final minister, Ms Marina Matulović-Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17767	Your Honor, Mr. President, I just wanted to tell you that I thank you all together for this, for certain suggestions. I'm glad the concept of the law is the one and on your part okay. However, what I still have to say is two words in relation to criticism that spatial planners have been neglected and spatial plans to be neglected. I claim that they were neglected in 2002 when a law was passed that said and abolished all deadlines for making spatial plans, not today or not before 2004, when we set deadlines and when we thank God the spatial plans of the units of local self-government and brought. As far as the Law of Spatial Planning and Construction is concerned, there's only one thing I'm going to look back on. The law needs to be read, because the law doesn't say anywhere, literally nowhere that the road has to be 9 meters wide, not 3, or 18. That's not what the law says. And 9 meters came from the General Plan of the City of Zagreb, which he wrote to himself in the general plan that his roads were 9 meters wide. And I ask you nicely to read the law and see clearly what the law says. As for the engineers and designing steel, bearing construction. When engineers go to their university or shipbuilding engineers study and listen to the subject of statics that talk about how to design a carrying steel construction of a hall, then we'll certainly get it into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17768	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Eight. Proposal for a law on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction. First is reading, P.Z.E. No. 167. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft law on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction is adopted. Second. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. No, let's get involved that way and raise our hands who's in favor? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, the draft law on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17771	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to say that the adoption of the State Measurement Act and the Real estate cataster and the Law on our spatial arrangement have made the conditions for this profession to be viewed specifically and to make a special law on the conduct of geodetic activity. Why? Because, in addition to activities related to spatial planning and construction, geodetics also operate in the field of national measurement, real estate and water catastrasts, expert geodetics for the purposes of agricultural land, professional jobs for protected areas and other geodetic jobs. So they're doing totally specific jobs, and that's why they're in a special one, and they're proposed in a special law, and they're setting up their special geodetic chamber. There's nothing left. So all the specifics that must be in such a law are the same as the law I spoke before. So I don't think he should be explained. There, it's also going to the first reading. Therefore, we will hear your remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17772	Thank you very much. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17773	Mr. President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 5th session held on 25 September 2008, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on the implementation of geodetic activity that has been submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 17 September 2008. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction shall be based on Article 83 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as the home working body. In its opening statement, the Proposer's representative pointed out that the proposed law regulates the performance of expert geodetic activities by certain regulations governing the state's measurement and real estate cadastre, spatial planning and construction, the commissioning of nature protection. For the purpose of ensuring quality professional and responsible performance of expert geodetic activities, it shall be arranged to carry out activities and associations in the expert association of geodetic engineers. It is pointed out that, unlike the applicable regulation of this bill, overall geodetic activity is regulated in one place. This is due to the fact that this creates a basis for the successful implementation of the rules governing the determination of maritime goods and the composition of agricultural land whose changes are in preparation. The Committee's discussion highlights the importance of performing geodetic work for spatial planning and construction, as it is a wide range of professional activities covering the production of specific geodetic bases for the purposes of drawing up documents and acts of spatial planning, the development of specific geodetic bases for protected and protected areas to a number of embodies being developed for the needs of construction. The role of this profession in the process of taking care of land books and catastras has been significantly assessed and further clarifications have been requested regarding the measurement of agricultural land. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the conduct of geodetic activity is adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-10-03-0.u17774	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. No one answered. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote soon. Nine. Proposal for a law on the exercise of geodetic activity. First is reading, P.Z.E. No. 169. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the exercise of geodetic activity and any objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Who's for these conclusions please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, these conclusions are accepted.
