ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19867	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, especially I welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Dr. Ivo Sanader, vice presidents and vice presidents and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a record of the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? There are no objections to the record. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I included 8 new points under regular numbers 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 37 and 38, these are: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 188, - Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on rules for cooperation in relation to the European Commission's financial assistance to the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of aid under component V. (IPARD) pre-accession aid instruments (IPA), with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 187, - Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Protection of the Environment" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 189, - Proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Bill Proposal, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 191, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Transport" for Community Assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 192. - Proposal for a Act confirming the Protocol under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, with the final proposal of the law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 190, - Annual Report on State aid for 2007 – Carrier: Agency for the Protection of Competition, - Proposed declaration of conviction of Holdomor, mass death of hunger, caused by the forced collectiveisation carried out by Stalin's Communist regime – Proposer: Club of Representatives of the HNS. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In the final draft agenda under points 1, 2, 4, 5 and 8 to 12 and 39 to 41, the laws proposed to adopt by emergency procedure are as follows: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Meter, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 179, point 1, - Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Police Mission in Afghanistan (EUPOL Afghanistan), with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 180, point 2, - Proposal for a Law on International Restriction Measures, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 182, point 4, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 188, point 5, - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on rules for cooperation in relation to the European Commission's financial assistance to the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of aid under component V. (IPARD) pre-accession aid instruments (IPA), with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 187, point 8, - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Protection of the Environment" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 189, point 9, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Funding Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Region competitiveness" for Community assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 191, point 10, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities for a multiannual operational programme "Transport" for Community Assistance under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance under the "Regional Development" component in Croatia, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 192, point 11, - Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, with the final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 190, paragraph 12, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 184, point 39, Proposer: SDP Representatives' Club, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 185, point 40, Proposer: Club of Representatives of the SDP, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 186, point 41, Proposer: SDP representative club. Do any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure following the adoption of these laws? Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19868	Thank you very much. Mr. President, we object to an emergency procedure for points 39 to 41. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The rules of procedure do not require the adoption of these laws to remove difficulties in the economy. And the second part of the objection is that with these laws it has gone deep into the macro-financials especially of the state budget, and no simulation of this model has been made and such consequences cannot be predicted at all. So that's two reasons why we're against each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19869	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19870	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that the proposals for the law under item 2 of the agenda and from 8 to 12 represent the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, that they should then have this label P.Z.E. and that an emergency procedure would then be made by the Government under Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament should be requested without a decision on the urgency of the procedure. So, I suggest they turn into P.Z.E. Laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19871	Point 2 and... And eight to twelve. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What does the Proposer have to say about this proposal? To turn these five points into P.Z.E. From these plains Okay. [[Intruder: You can.]] Let's go fortify. We're going to the vote. Please, let's get on with it. ... Mr. Andrija Hebrang. [[Everyone's talking in a voice, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19872	Mr. President, I suggest a vote by hand because a few MPs don't have a key.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19873	Thank you. Here you go. Shouldn't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19874	Mr. President, can I show myself to the HDZ Club proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19875	How?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19876	Can I show myself on behalf of the SDP on the HDZ Club proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19877	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19878	We have a debate on the state budget at this session. All three SDP proposals are those that need to be discussed by emergency procedure if we want to discuss the Republic's budget for next year in this session. And that's why we're saying we should discuss an emergency procedure. If the Croatian government's assessment is that these are unacceptable proposals, if this is the assessment of the majority in the Assembly that they are unacceptable, this is already possible in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and a decision can be made. But to debate in a regular procedure, and at this session we're going to make a budget, we're assessing that it's also a groundless debate. So for this reason, once again, we propose to discuss the urgent procedure so that we can properly assess whether such laws may be adopted, and yet this will have an impact on the adoption of the budget for the Republic for 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19879	Thank you. We're going to vote on certain points of the agenda. The proposal for a law on international restrictive measures, with the final proposal for a law, is P.Z.E. No. 172, that's not what you're voting on. P.Z.E. No. 188th doesn't vote either. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Meter? There isn't. Who's to apply for emergency procedures please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 118 votes in favour. Act confirming the Agreement of the Republic of Croatia and of the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia, the same as P.Z.E. We're not voting. Also, there is no vote between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Community on the rules of cooperation, since it is the P.Z.E. On the basis of a proposal from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mimica was accepted by the Government to go under P.Z.E. So they won't vote. Also, the following points, which are marked in the proposal of Vice-President Mimica, do not vote. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profit? The remark was Mr. Hebrang. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. For 51, against 67, the urgency of the procedure was not accepted. Does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP? We have any objections to the use of urgency. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The emergency vote was 51 against 67 MPs. So he's going into regular procedure. If there are any objections to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, it is also pointed out about the urgency of the procedure, so I am voting on a proposal to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? For emergency procedure 51, v. 67, that is not accepted. It's going into regular procedure, the urgency of eating. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to points which did not contain the draft agenda on call, with a call for a session. In the acts referred to in points 5 and 8 to 12, they declared the occasion of the emergency decision and they were included in the agenda by renaming them as P.Z.E. Do any of the representatives have objections to points 37 and 38 of the final draft agenda which did not contain the draft agenda and which you received with the invitation to this session? These are the Annual Report on State aid for 2007 and the Proposal for a declaration of condemnation of "Holodomor", mass execution of hunger and... by Stalin's communist regime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any objections? If there are no objections to that, we have accepted the agenda. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been established in accordance with Article 205(2). Rules of Procedure. I should now announce the established agenda. I suggest in accordance with the current custom here, if you agree that I do not read it fully, but allow me to announce that the agenda has been established as suggested by the final draft agenda. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We're moving on with the session. Before the debate continues, I urge the new representative, Berislav Roncevic, to swear. First I'll read the text of the oath, then I'll call an advocate who swears by standing up and saying the word I swear. The text of the oath reads. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19881	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19882	Thank you very much. Congratulations to the new representative and I wish him a lot of success in his work in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please let's get involved and see if we have a sufficient number of MPs for the quorum, and a representative. Please, let's get on with it. The result? We've got 80 MPs. There's got to be more in here. I don't know if all the MPs have the keys. 110's numbered. Thank you. In accordance with Article 204(2), ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 7th session with points: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Customs Tariff Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 195, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Maritime Code, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 196, 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Profit Tax, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 201, 4. Proposal for a law on tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 199, 5. Proposal for a membership law in tourist communities, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 198, 6. Proposal for a residence tax law, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 200, 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Production and Remonting and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 209, 8. Proposal for a law on development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 206, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on ownership and other real rights, with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 210, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on state border control, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 213, 11. Proposal for a law on financial conglomerates, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 215, 12. Proposal for a General Tax Code, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 216, 13. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Commercial Society, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 202, 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, with the Final Proposal for Law, first and second reading, P.Z. 197, 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary school, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 194, 16. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.z. No. 205, 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 207, 18. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.z. No. 203, 19. Proposal for a law on golf courses, with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 211, 20. Final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 124, 21. Final proposal of the Law on the pursuit of geodetic activity, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 169, 22. Final proposal of the Law on architectural and engineering affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 167, 23. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, second reading, P.Z. No. 94, 24. Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of State Law offices, second reading, P.Z. No. 178, 25. Proposed law on vocational education, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 208, 26. Proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 204, 27. Proposal for a water law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 214, 28. Proposal for a law on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 212, 29. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads, first reading, P.Z. No. 193, Proposer: SDP representative club, 30. Half-year report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2008, Carrier: Croatian National Bank, 31. Proposal for a decision on a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 13(1) Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Proposer: Committee on Legislatives. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 205. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the laws of P.Z.E. No. 195, P.Z.E. No. 196, P.Z.E. No. 201, P.Z.E. No. 199, P.Z.E. No. 198, P.Z.E. No. 200, P.Z.E. No. 209, P.Z.E. No. 206, P.Z.E. No. 210, P.Z.E. No. 213, P.Z.E. No. 215 and P.Z.E. No. 216 are in line with the European Union rules, and we do not vote in the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws. This is Article 161. Rules of Procedure. Does any of the MPs have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other laws, the Act of Amendment and the addition of the Law on State Attorney's Office, for example? There isn't. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorneyship? Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. For the application of the emergency procedure by majority of votes 95, abstentions 7 and 1 against, the Law supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, so as to apply an emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools? Here you go, Mrs. Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19884	Your Honor, Mr. President. The SDP advocates club opposes the adoption of the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools by emergency procedure for the following reason. In its proposal, where an emergency procedure is proposed, the government calls for other particularly justified state reasons and, as these other particularly justified state reasons, states the fact that the selection process of textbooks for the next school year begins during this year. However, the Government's proposal for a law itself denies that sentence because Article 24 has been found that price data is delivered by 1 March 2009, that the Ministry shall publish a list by 10 March at the latest, informing the Ministry of the selection of schools by 15 April and that schools are obliged to open public procurement proceedings by 15 May. Therefore, neither are the procedures of the election being initiated, it begins during this calendar year simply not true because the text of the Government defuses the allegation itself, hence the waste, and one reason they cited as the need for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19885	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have therefore an objection to the urgent procedure of Ms. Marija Lugaric. I am now voting on the proposal to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The emergency procedure was accepted by the majority of the 72 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 39 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the Law on Commercial Companies? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. Score. The emergency procedure was accepted by the majority of 103 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 1 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on urgency. Score. The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 104 votes for, 1 abstention and 1 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Education and Education? There isn't. Let us please engage and vote on the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law. Score. The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Does any of the representatives or advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on urgency. Score. The urgency was accepted by most votes, 98 votes for, 3 abstentions and 2 against. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Golf Courses? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19886	Well, Mr. President, in my court golf courses certainly are not the priority of this country, and especially in the context of the unusual campaign and the Agricultural Land Act, we have a favoriteization of those who build golf courses without any... Well, I think that question should be discussed, because like golf, why wasn't it about handball, football or water polo? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19887	Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic opposes the urgency of the procedure. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. The law on golf courses, of course. Score. I find that the urgency of the procedure has been accepted with regard to the adoption of this law by 68 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 47 against. Any of the MPs or representatives comment on the inclusion of other proposed items in the 7th session agenda? If not, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19888	Representative Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19889	Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your time. I have one request. Both yesterday and today, a large number of Croatian media reported that police against civil protest organisers on Friday applied measures of repression of detention, hearings and misapplication for public advertising of the protest and in Zadar were reported cases that police had removed posters from public places for a protest that had been reported neatly to the same police station. Given that I consider it to be measures of attempted intimidation by the police, I would ask you to organise that, during today, the Police Minister of the Parliament report on the reasons for such measures and in order to try to stop any form of intimidation of citizens for the Constitution guaranteed freedom of organisation and demonstration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19890	Don't give a second thought. It will be announced today by both the government and the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19891	And will the Parliament be informed of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19892	We'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19893	And before we move to the 12th agenda, two notices. After point 12. The final proposal for a law on development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad, we will continue with points 17, 18, 19, meaning the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property, on Commercial Society, on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, and then only beyond that is this package of laws relating to tourism, because the reports of the Committee are being prepared, so as to discuss the whole package, so to speak, the regulations of the competent ministries. And I'd like to inform you that next week with the session we'll begin Tuesday for the budget, that we can plan on other parliamentary activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19894	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will complete the agenda as announced. What about the quorum? It's already been reported by some MPs that they don't have the keys. We have 89 quorum. Mr. Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19895	Mr. President, we're proposing a hand-to-hand vote because a lot of MPs don't have keys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19896	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda to the 7th session points. 1. Proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, with projections of the State budget for 2010 and 2011. Proposals for financial plans of extra budget users for 2009, with a projection proposal for 2010 and 2011: (a) Croatian Waters (a) Croatian Roads (a) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (a) Croatian Privatisation Fund (a) Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Proposal for the State Budget and Financial Plans for 2009 with the 2010 and 2011 projection proposal (consolidated) 2. Final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 219. 3. Proposal for a law on efficient use of energy in direct consumption, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 222 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Tax on Tobacco Products, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 225 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, with the Final Bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 233 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on humanitarian demining, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 234. Seven. Final draft law on criminal proceedings, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 116. Is It a Second Reading, 8 / 8 Final draft law on private detectives, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 148, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 220, 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Syrian Arab Republic on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 221, 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gas market with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 223, 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 224, 13. Proposal for a law on criminal acts against the capital market with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 226, 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 227, 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Voluntary Health Insurance Act with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 228, 16. Proposal for a mandatory health insurance law with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 229, 17. Proposal for a health care law with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 230, 18. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on credit unions with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 231, 19. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Land Books with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 232, 20. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Special Rights Act from the pension insurance of employees in demining operations with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 235, 21. Proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Substances by the Inland Waterways ADN with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 236, 22. Final draft law amending the Law on the Declaration of the West of Medvednica Park of Nature, second reading, P.Z. Number 140, 23. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic, operation EUFOR TEHAD/RCA with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 217, 24. Proposal for a law on the release of certain non-tax revenue in 2009, first reading, P.Z. No. 218, Proposer: SDP representative club, 25. Proposal for a Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, article, is that right? That's a 25's point 25. [[Intruder: 25]] This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. I stress that P.Z.'s bill. No 222, paragraph 3, Proposed Law No 225, point 4, Proposed Law No P.Z.E. No 233, point 5 and P.Z.E. proposal. No 234, paragraph 6 is aligned with the European Union rules, and we do not vote on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws on the basis of Article 161 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Contributions. It's P.Z. Number 220, point 9.? There isn't. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions? Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. That's right, there's no abstention in determining the agenda. I find that the majority of votes, 76 votes for and 3 abstentions, and 3 against, reportedly 12 but I find that an emergency procedure has been accepted. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Syrian Arab Republic on the avoidance of double taxation of income taxes, P.Z. Number 221, point 10? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Please, who's in favor of making this an emergency procedure? Against? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. 91 votes in favor. It means an emergency procedure. I apologize to the representatives, point 24. Proposal for a law on the release of certain non-tax revenue in 2009, P.Z. No. 218, the SDP Representatives' Club is proposed by emergency procedure, and we will decide on the urgency of the procedure. Third, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act, P.Z. Number 223, point 11? There isn't. Please, who's in favor of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? I find that most votes, 87 for and 5 against an emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, P.Z. Number 224, point 12? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? I find that most votes, 85 for, 7 against the adoption of an emergency procedure. Fifthly, if any of the representatives have any objections, any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Criminal Cases against the Capital Market, P.Z. Number 226, paragraph 13.? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? I find that most votes, 81 for, 11 against the accepted urgency of the procedure. Any of the representatives have any objection to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the electricity market, P.Z.E. No. 227, point 14. There isn't. Who's for an emergency procedure, please? Thank you. Against? I find that most of the vote is 84 for and 8 against the accepted urgency of the procedure for the adoption of this law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, P.Z.E. No. 228, point 15. There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure with this law? Please, your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that most of the vote is 68 votes in favour of, 24 against an emergency procedure when this law is passed. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, P.Z.E. No. 229, point 16. There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? I find that most of the vote is 77 for and 14 against the accepted urgency of the procedure under this law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Health Protection Act, P.Z. No. 230, point 17 Here you go, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. [[Intruder: There.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19897	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS Club, this law is de facto a total health reform. As we know, there have been a lot of discussions in the public and these are, of course, following the laws that were before it, but in this concept of health reform has been carried out and I think it deserves both the Croatian public and the importance of the topic that we deserve to discuss the overall health reform in Croatia in two readings. Therefore, the HNS club proposes that this law, which is in fact the concept of health reform, be discussed in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19898	Thank you. We have heard the comment of the HNS Representatives' Club that opposes the application of an emergency procedure. So, who's to apply the emergency procedure of this law please raise your hand? Thank you very much. Against? Thank you. I find that most votes, 66 votes, and 25 against the accepted urgency in the adoption of this law. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Credit Unions, P.Z. No. 231, point 18. There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure with this law? Thank you. Against? I find that the majority of votes, 80 for and 11 against the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Books, P.Z.E. No. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, There isn't. Who's for an emergency procedure, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? I find that most votes, 87 votes for and 4 against the accepted urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights in Pension Insurance of Employees in Mine Action, P.Z.E. No. 235, point 20. There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? I find that most of the votes, 88 votes to and 3 against the accepted urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law. Any of the representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on the approval of the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Substances by Inland Waterways (ADN), P.Z.E. No. 236, point 21. There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. This emergency proposal was accepted unanimously by 91 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic (Operation EUFOR TEHAD/RCA), P.Z.E. No. Point 217 of point 23. There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? The proposal was unanimously accepted with 91 votes. Any of the representatives have any objections to an emergency procedure in the adoption of the draft law on the release of certain non-taxable incomes in 2009, P.Z. No. 218 who filed with the SDP counseling club? It was a mistake, so I fixed it. So, by emergency procedure, he was proposed, not in regular procedure. No objections. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? This proposal has not been passed for an emergency procedure, 26 for 66 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of other proposed points in the session agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19899	Just one question. When will we get the consolidated text and what will be discussed during this afternoon after the Agricultural Land Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19900	Here, we got it all. You have a purified agenda. We continue in this agenda, and this is a complement to the agenda, and tomorrow you will be again cleansed of what will be done. There'll be a state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19901	My colleagues and colleagues continue the session. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19902	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On the eve of this session, it was agreed that the Parliament would work in principle until 19 hours or longer until that agenda item was completed at 7 pm. That's what we just did. Nineteen is thirty-six. Here is the plan to continue working with a set of laws in the area of justice. Two are essential essential essential laws; Penal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure. These are laws that first concern human rights and freedom. They decide the two most important things in every human life, the honor of man and his freedom. In addition, these laws have also been announced by the government and by the prime minister as part of anti-corruption and anti-mafian laws. Thus do We understand them, and thus do We accept them, and so do we wish to dispute about them. We believe that these are too important laws and that the debate on them would begin now at 19.37. If this is done, it will show not only the relationship between the leadership of the Parliament, you, Mr. Vice President, towards this area, towards corruption, to the crime in this country, according to our sincere desire to all of us to stand not only on this monster's tail but also on your head, but it will show your relationship to this House. The reputation of this House in public is unfortunately not high. We're afraid that sometimes we contribute to it ourselves. We've been working today since half past ten, now it's half past eight, full 10 hours. We have no right to be irresponsible to ourselves in such important laws after ten hours of work. Finally, this would also mean insulting this Parliament, disdaining Parliament and disdaining MPs. That's what we're protesting. If the laws have to be passed by 31.12. if this is why the SDP Club shows your willingness here publicly to call an extraordinary session, we are ready to work all the time on a constitutional break without a single day's break. Let us pass all the laws that we must in order to join the European Union within the deadlines that we must adopt. We're working without a constitutional break but let's discuss these laws in public because these laws concern the public and the public is rightly interested in them. Let's discuss them at normal hours. Let's discuss them when there are journalists who mediate with the public. We work here, we're chosen. We act in the interests of these citizens and of this public and according to the fact that we are elected we must act responsibly. We must act in the interest of the public. That's why I'm asking you, Vice President of the Parliament, with apologies from both the Secretary of State and the Minister of State, if he's here, which came in this late hour, we're still here today to stop working. Let's continue next week. Call an extraordinary session. You'll have the full support of the SDP Club. We don't care about Saturdays or Sundays or holidays. We're working as long as it takes at an extraordinary session. We're working on an extraordinary session as long as it takes. Let's get everything. But let's not hide such important laws from the public. Let's not discuss them so irresponsiblely at this hour. Otherwise, the SDP Club will express its protest in a way that will discuss these laws only on behalf of the club, we will not discuss in individual debates but I warn you we will have to publicise you, show the public that this way of work shows your inadequacy in the fight against corruption and crime when it comes to key laws, key laws that are a tool for fighting crime, and this is the most important legislative tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19903	Thank you. Time. Thank you. Very short. I announced this morning that we would work without a break and that we would work longer so that the terms we set and the tasks we put before us could be realized. It's health care tomorrow. According to this debate on health, we also consider a priority topic that should certainly be in front of the public, which needs to be discussed in front of the public. We all the laws we bring here are of interest, of the public, of interest to people. We can't put all the laws to be on TV. So now we're going to go on without any feeling that we're creating there, demeaning anyone, doing as we've done so far. The session is open, the session is not closed. The fact that it's not a direct transmission will be transmitted through the public as it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19904	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the council, we will proceed with the session. Please quorum. Please quorum, let's see. 103 MPs and MPs, so we can work. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 204, paragraph 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 7th session with points: 1. The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty, No. 7598, for the project to improve emergency medicine assistance and investment planning in healthcare between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 237. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? So, P.Z. No. 237. Does anyone have any objections? There isn't. I suggest that we determine the agenda by raising our hands. We're going to the vote. Please, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty, No. 7598 HR for a project to improve emergency medical care? Thank you, Oppose? I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, the motion of urgency for the adoption of this law is accepted. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of point 1 in the agenda of the 7th session? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, please, we have one proposal to be included in the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision to appoint a Programme Council of the Croatian Radio Television, proposed by the Information and Information and Media Committee. Let's get into the agenda first, if we agree. Would anyone mind including this point in the agenda? There isn't. Agenda accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19907	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll ask the Minister of Justice, Mr. Shimonovic. My question concerns the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Mr. Ministers, does the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities go slowly or does it not go in some segments? That is how the Government of the Republic of Croatia saw it, so it adopted an action plan for the speedy and consistent implementation of the law. And I'm going to ask you today only for the segment of employment of members of national minorities in state services. My question is: The measures taken so far in the action plan have been taken to speed up the employment of members of national minorities in accordance with this action plan and, of course, in accordance with Article 22. Constitutional law?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19908	Thank you. Mr. Minister Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19909	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Constitutional Law has received an action plan that should contribute to its effective implementation. It is also about provisions of an action plan relating to the judiciary. The action plan was adopted in June 2008 and was immediately implemented, although it is still being considered in some European Union bodies. The adoption of this action plan is also one of the criteria foreseen by the European Commission for the opening of Chapter 23. - Justice and human rights. So the informal evaluations of our action plan are good. We'll get that action plan as soon as we get the green light from the commission that should be coming in soon, we'll put it on the Internet, we'll make it public. I would like to thank all those who participated in its concept, including representatives of minorities. What I can say, however, is that we did not wait for the European Commission to give its blessing, but some measures have already been taken. They primarily refer to statistical monitoring of the records and the establishment of the situation, including the use of minority languages in court proceedings, as well as to the monitoring of the structure of employees in judicial bodies. Therefore, the recording of the situation is ongoing, and of course it will be taken into account in the implementation of the action plan and on the national structure in individual judicial bodies. I am prepared to provide appropriate information in writing as a complement to my oral response.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19910	Thank you. Mr. Ratko Gaitica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19911	Mr. Minister, my question is primarily motivated by the fact that we've already wasted a lot of time, and we've all told the government I'm dissatisfied with applying the constitutional law provisions. I very much respect that commitment to Brussels. It seems to me that it is an even greater obligation to our practice. The trouble is that we are still in the phase I would say education and in the phase of persuasion of many services and persons to convince them that the provisions of the law really need to be implemented. I thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19912	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19913	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Ministers of Government, colleagues and colleagues. In the eastern part of my County of Brodo-Posaviska in Velika Kopanica was born the father of the Croatian school Ivan Filipovic, who said among other things: "If I were born again, I would be a teacher.". Therefore, I, as an educational worker with this topic in my heart and at heart, ask the question of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to Mr Dragan Primorac. Mr. Minister, at what stage is the creation of a national preschool curricula, primary school and secondary school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19914	Thank you. Mr. Minister Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19915	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, all colleagues present. The question and the real question of national curricula is one of the issues that Croatian education has been dealing with, I would say in the last few decades. Croatia mainly addressed its issue of education processes through a curricula and a programme that had never clearly had a defined outcome of education, which never clearly had a link between the entire verticals of education, pre-school education, primary education, secondary education. At the beginning of the term of office, we gathered about five years ago the most competent people in the segment of education away from all ideology, politics, people most competent in this area. It is my pleasure, too, to say that, following the adoption of a framework plan for the creation of a national framework curricula, a strategy for the production, development of a national curricula for pre-school, primary and secondary education was recently presented. After more than a hundred experts and experts worked on this process, which very clearly imposes educational values on the educational process, which makes it very clear what educational achievements and outcomes are at individual levels of education, which makes it very clear that the school is focused and teaching towards the student but very clearly defines the competences of the modern teacher. It is my pleasure to say that yesterday, the National Council for the Making of Curiculum came forward with a proposal for a national framework curricula that was first adopted in Croatian history, even before. I would like to thank all these experts who have actually made one document that goes to a public debate over a month and after that debate it will be fully adopted because Croatia is starting with so-called. the curriculative educational reform where the full curricula and the programme will for the first time make it very clear the outcomes of education that are at any moment completely complementary to the outcome of education of one student in England, France or any other country. This I guarantee, that the entire vertical of Croatian education will be based on scientific principles and what is most important it will be adapted to all needs of the economy, the social I would say influence and other segments. The special moment is focused on training teachers for the use of curiculum. And it's my pleasure to say that literally the entire education system has been mobilized these days to create a national curricula. I think that by adopting a national curricula, the framework of the education system of the Republic of Croatia from kindergarten to doctoral studies will be defined with very clear background competences of pupils in primary, secondary, higher education as well as in doctoral studies. This closes Croatia's entire education cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19916	Thank you. Mr. Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19917	I thank Mr. Minister for this answer. I'm extremely pleased with the answer and I'm ordering just ahead, bravely forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19918	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19919	Thank you. Mr. President. And that this would not be thanking you for asking and thanking you for your answer, I will refer my question to Minister Pankretic. Just a few days ago, Croatia reportedly avoided the financial crisis by large-minded members of the government. The situation was like a fairy tale if you exclude various affairs from health care, finances to the Ministry of Interior, organised crime, tour of foreign stadiums, stories of belt tightening, Christmas returns, freezing salaries, possible government debt, non-registration of the State's Attorney's Office on statements by former General Royce. There will be a question, only you gather yourselves, be patient because after these statements there I want to protect first and foremost the institution of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Someone needs to end up in prison, or Royce or those who are called, etc. But that the matter is not better in agriculture either, and in this mandate of yours, one wheat saga continues, not only on wheat but also on imports of pork, beef, etc. After each visit, manufacturers believe in the fairy tale, that they will receive an adequate reward for their work and get almost nothing. Last year's harvest was sold cheaply by the state and the state exported the wheat cheaply, about 400 thousand tonnes. The buyer's silos and the manufacturer's barns are full and the stock reserves are empty. And there's no wheat as much as it should be as a strategic reserve. My question to you is are you preparing a new wheat affair in which you will sell cheaply and buy expensively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19920	Thank you. Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19921	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian, I thank you very much for asking. And the answer is definitely not to prepare any affair and I think as far as the wheat is concerned this year, we can say very clearly thank God it was a good birth year and we have record yields regarding wheat. I can also point out that you can ask any producer of wheat this year and they will tell you that he is extremely pleased because the price has been satisfactory and, given what costs were at the beginning of the very wheat crop, then he will make it very clear that they have never earned as much as this year on wheat. And that's almost unanimous. I have to say the wheat is ready. Given the price, we expect that certain things will change as they have already been done in flour given the price reduction, and I believe that they will certainly be in the further dairy industry doing so on other products. So we are not expecting any affairs, even more so with this wheat harvest, and we are in total very pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19922	Thank you. Mr. Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19923	Normally, I am not satisfied with your response because only the data for importing and exporting agricultural products for the period from January to September 2008 are the worst since the beginning of the independent Republic of Croatia. The difference between imports and exports is negative for nearly a billion US dollars. And today in Slavonia and Croatia you have on the market and wheat from Hungary. Croatia has also imported over 50 million kunas of corn, and today producers do not know where, where they will store corn in the first quarter of this year. I demand from you a written reply not only about wheat but also about the overall balance of imports of pork, beef, corn. So all agricultural and food products, but I think you're personally running this farm resort by some dictatorship, and I'm asking you to call a meeting. all family economies or representatives of all family... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a representative of all family economies. [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19924	Thank you. There were additional questions. Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19925	Mr. President, gentlemen, I would like to ask either the Prime Minister Mr. Sanader or Mr. Polancec the Deputy Prime Minister. The winning of Croatian banks for the first 9 months is 4.8 billion kuna this year. It was 31% higher than last year at the same time, or last year the profit of banks at an annual level was 5.1 billion kuna, and this year the profit of banks will be between 6 and 7 billion kuna. Exactly what we sold these rescheduled state banks in the late 1990s in the early 2000s. What is incomprehensible is that the Croatian state does not want to capitalise only on two of its own, the only two of its banks. I mean the Croatian Post Bank and the Croatian Bank. I don't know, I guess foreign banks are pulling profits out of the country. Zagrebačka Banka won a billion kunas in 9 months, an economic billion and 40 million kunas, Erste 760, Raifaisen, which has huge problems in Austria 510, Croatia's postal bank only 140 million kuna. Credits in Croatia, I mean interest, growth. They're falling into the world, and their banks are unstable, and we're more stable. Now the question. Employers are looking for the establishment of an intervention fund for businesses to collapse over the global crisis. It is mentioned in the media as many as 15 billion kunas. I don't know where that came from, but if the government is considering forming some emergency fund for citizens who owe 120 billion kuna to banks at this time. Companies owe 80 billion kuna, with loans growing by 30 to 40 percent in the last 3.4 months. So what happens to these intervention funds? It's a question that at this point tangs for sure every citizen of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19926	Thank you. Prime Minister Mr. Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, thank you for asking. It is also current at the moment, and I think it is also necessary to publicly and to make it public. First of all, I'm going to start with the information that you've cited about getting banks and not just this year but all over the years. According to the information we have received and received from the Croatian National Bank of banks which are mostly owned by foreign banks, we are talking about them, we are not talking about Croatian banks, I will come to them, but first, the first part of your question concerns foreign-owned banks. So according to information from the CNB, if they gave us the wrong information, I'm misquoting it. Banks from 2002 didn't make profits outside, they reinvested it here. It is therefore an extremely important thing in times when we all rightly criticize banks because interest is rising and we ask them to share this moment with us in Croatian society. Therefore, from the fact that we have announcements that interest will be raised on the already existing loans that the bank's population has concluded until the announcement of a loan to astronomical heights for all and for the state as well as for the state. The finance minister talked to them on one occasion, so we saw what expectations are already around 13% today but we could go up to 20%. We have to prevent that, and we appeal, and I'm using this question of yours and the Assembly's pay phone to appeal to the banks to behave as they have so far. I expect Mother's banks won't make deposits outside. We'll do everything, we don't have as executive and fiscal authority that runs fiscal policy we don't have a lot of instruments but there's a central bank and it will do everything according to announcements to prevent it. Now, when it comes to Croatian banks, we are going to the recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank and it is the model of the recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank. When it comes to the Croatian bank, I must remind myself that it has already been recapitalised once in the past but it does not exclude the absolute possibility of us recapitalising it now or going to privatisation with the Croatian bank. We're going with the post office bank, so we're going with the recapitalisation. These days, employers and entrepreneurs were talking about an intervention fund if some companies start to fail, close jobs, fire workers. Just close your business. In that case, we all need to know together and understand that without these entrepreneurs, without these companies, there is no economy, no jobs, no salaries, no revenue in the budget. And in that sense, it was an employer's proposal. I'm not their lawyer, I'm just explaining what the reasons were for them both at tripartite meetings and in public. Of course, we need to think first of all about the population. And now I come to the back of your question. And what the government could do here when it comes to dealing with banks because you talked about it. In this context we have done with your support, the Parliament unanimously accepted it and I want to thank all the clubs and all the political parties who voted in favour of raising the guarantee from 100 grand to 400 thousand kuna. Now, we deeply believe that with all these measures, with measures that we will come to the budget before the Croatian Parliament very soon when we end the debate with the social partners, where we will propose and we would like to propose that the budget deficit be 0% in 2009 with a whole series of measures. Then we expect to discuss further measures when it comes to protecting the population. The first measure was achieved, peace was reached, panic was avoided, a stampede was avoided on banks that would definitely have happened if we hadn't raised the guarantee from 100,000 kuna to 400,000 kuna. The banks are relieved. Even more now, there are people who, instead of saving or keeping their socks, are ready and put on the bank, but of course, provided that the mothers' banks don't withdraw that money tomorrow if the situation comes hard in them and say so let's go save our situation, why do we care about Croatia? Now there is the art of the state and that is what I can tell you here that the Croatian Central Bank will do everything to prevent it. And we with our measures as far as we can as executive power influence it. And let me get this straight. As a fellow MP mentioned earlier that Christmas Day is being abolished. No Christmases are abolished and no Christmas gifts are lifted, but it is abolished, and that is our contribution to saving, that public companies are state-owned to each other giving gifts for Christmas. The kids give Christmas cards yes, but the managers of each other's ministers don't. That was the purpose of the government's measure. So, cutting the team. The gifts for the children remain, the Christmases remain. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19928	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19929	The truth is, what the prime minister said from 2002 to today was not a win-win. We have a problem for the first six months that Pliva, THT have drawn 519 or 17 million euros. But we have to sit down, we have to tell people the truth where we are, what awaits them. Croatia will survive in 2009 with 40, 50,000 jobs less than we have today, with thousands of personal bankruptcy, with thousands of shut down companies and no reprogramme obligations to the economy but also with citizens threatening collapse and economic operators, and then that means families and perhaps the state. Crobex's downfall, we're tracking what's going on. He's taking us back to 2005. The state will be saved. I don't know, these funds are going to solve the indifference of the state, but with the reprogramme, without the reprogramme of citizens and businesses, I don't think all of us in the whole nation are being ill-written.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19930	Thank you. It's Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19931	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm referring my question to Minister Primorac. I will certainly not ask why the Statute of the town of Daruvar is not yet harmonised or why Czech children cannot go to Czech kindergarten but I will ask why we are creating new problems. The town of Ilock with 12.5% of Slovaks after peaceful reintegration, after returning, was restored and co-existence. An important role was played next to the family, for the Slovak Evangelical Church for the evangelical priest, Masses, and religious sciences in Slovak. Today, 10 years later, religious science teaches a non - evangelical believer, teaches it with an interpreter. Parents ask why constitutional law is being violated in the institution of school, that is, when will their children have a teaching in mother tongue? That's what parents are looking for, it's the Council of the Slovak National Minority of Vukovar-Srijem County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19932	Thank you. Mr. Minister Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19933	Representative, Mr. President, Mrs. Chuhnil said almost everything, so I don't really know what else to say. The ministry respected its obligation, opened the workplace, and my influence on the bishop of the Evangelical Church is not so much that I can determine who he will send to teach religious teaching. And that's the point. He is the only person who decides who can hold a religious teaching as is the case with the Catholic Church where the bishop in charge has the right to hold and do it, and what is crucial that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has approved the program and the captain and we stand behind it. I agree with you that it is possible to find a better believer. I can't get into his competences, but maybe it's more natural not to be an interpreter. But I repeat, it is not exclusively resolved by the agreement signed in 2003 between the Evangelist Church in the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia where it is not explicitly mentioned that educational and educational work in the language of the national minority members of the Evangelist Church can and must be given by any means and by the trustee. So, my support to you, and the decision is to the bishop of the Evangelist Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19934	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19935	I can usually agree, but mostly not. The problem of the Evangelist Church in Croatia is also somewhat escalating to a political problem, i.e. at the Constitutional Court, and I don't think he should have broken on children, or he shouldn't have broken himself in minorities. Because the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minorities states that such changes are necessary for the use of language, i.e. those 5 subjects taught at school, that it is necessary to get an opinion and a Council on National Minorities, in this case the Slovak Council. This was brought unilaterally, and the more the team was brought from a part of the Evangelist Church which was equally not recognised as that part of the other, and I think it should be clear in the state that if the Lutheran Union did not support any, one segment of the Evangelist Church would have to wait for a solution, and this is an premature solution to which certain minority rights came.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19936	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19937	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Ivo Sanader. Mr. President, these days at the heart of your attention are your crisis measures. Some strongly support you, others harshly criticize you. Unfortunately, that's how it usually happens in us that it all comes down to black and white technique without more serious analysis. No one asks whether it is better to freeze salaries or to increase salaries to those officers who work quality and professionally and to fire those who do not do so and who are clearly incompetent. Crisis is an opportunity for that. No one questions why such big pay gaps are between local and regional self-government and state administrations. No one questions why such large salaries are in public enterprises even though they have a practically monopoly market. No one asks why a lab technician who works at the MUP, at the hospital and at the university has such huge pay gaps. They're all paid from the budget, doing the same job, same schoolwork. No one asks why people, here in this building are multiplying these materials hundreds of thousands of pages per session have a coefficient of 0.62 and our external members of the boards of Assembly 0.80 for 30, 40 minutes of work per month. It's similar, Mr. President in the Supervisory Committees, to the boards of directors of state-owned enterprises. No one asks whether it will be easier to tighten the belt by several holes our finance minister or worker in "May 3rd". Given that these issues are being systematically bypassed, I would ask you to tell us whether the government is intending to take some proactive steps out of this crisis other than the icy measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19938	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19939	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for this question. It is like the previous question referred to me, going to the core of the current situation, at the heart of the problems and challenges. These are really difficult times and difficult challenges and I don't deny it and all that you've brought out here stands and much more. For example, the fact is that we had to repay a large debt during this term, according to court decisions, because of what the former coalition government has reduced by 20%. If we didn't have to pay, I don't know how many billions, billions and 200 million kunas, we could use them in something else. Now, now I know it's hard to deal with, but that's not my answer. I know you're ashamed, but that's not my answer. My answer is next. Regardless of the billions and 100 million that we had to pay under a court ruling that annulled the former government's decisions, we have in this situation proposed a whole series of measures and I will now say them. First of all, every year in the past 3.4 years, the last three years have at least increased by about 10 billion kuna. He's grown up. Thank God he grew up because we had growth in the economy, we had income and we could cover all of these projects that some of you were for. Now, this year has also been a proposal from various cabinets of our fellow ministers, and in agreement with local communities to go again with about 10, even up to 15 billion. It was a projection of the budget somewhere in September two months ago. From September to today, there's been a collapse of financial markets and we cut those demands and we try, and that's what we're working on right now, so I'll come to pay. So, all these projects that are in principle good, but we don't have to do them in 2009, we don't have to do it in 2010, we can go out in 2011, if what Mr. Cain is saying is true, and others say it won't be just in 2009, but it might be '10. A crisis year. So, we cut budget projections for about 15 billion kuna at the very beginning, and now we're here to keep in a situation where we have to keep on one side, and there's an absolute waist agreement, public works, infrastructure works that can be a blocker engine that grows at least 2%, and that's our projection of 2% to 2.5% in 2009, to say, with all the other austerity measures, that those who signed the agreement with us two years ago, that we can see if we can at some point this last raise, because we've already raised 6% in accordance with that agreement, can we postpone that last raise for a while with the proposal, and that's what we're going to talk to the public and state service unions this afternoon, with a proposal that in the fall, but in September conversation, not to compensate for those third and last year's increase of 6%, but to go back at another 3 years. That's our proposal. This data, this after the score came nobody quoted in public, but it's since the beginning of our proposal that I proposed to 250 members of the union, all the border unions of cities, municipalities, employers, etc. Therefore, I am also in favour of not being one measure, but to be a measure when it comes to cities, and I am glad that some of the mayors of other parties supported it from Zagreb to Kutina, that it was supported by the mayors, that it was also supported by the mayors of municipalities not to go with municipal services up there, because the question is how our population will not talk about it. Why does no one talk about how many municipal services went around Croatia at the beginning of the year from cities where HDZ mayors, to cities where SDP mayors, or HNS, or HSPs, HSS, etc., HSLS. So it's our suggestion that at this point in time if there's no deal, we always have a variant to go into the deficit. Let's go to the deficit. But the deficit means new government debt 1% of the deficit is somewhere around 2 billion and 900 million kuna. I ask you, if we decide to rule, most, the parliamentary majority for the deficit where we find that money, under what conditions will we find that money? Therefore, when we proposed this whole package of measures, it also includes removing some benefits for both ministers and parliamentarians from free parking to possibly a debate on pensions, possibly discussing some other things that we might have thought differently yesterday because they were different times. So, all this stuff I've been talking about will be discussed at the Parliament. Previously, we will come up with a draft budget before the Croatian Parliament after we agree with the coalition partners and with the social partners. But at this point, there is no right to deny that the crisis is coming, that it is coming to Croatia and we will be the first in the government that will not allow the crisis to break over those who are most difficult, and that is why we saved the deposits in the banks and that is why we paid the pensioners back and that is why we have passed the law on new pensioners, and that is why we will discuss with HSU and Christmas with HSU, we will also talk about those pensioners who come from the countries of the former state who have small pensions, etc., but all in accordance with the financial opportunities in which the state is located. Because what we can use if the entire financial system fails, then we're all ruined.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19940	Thank you, Prime Minister. It's hard to answer in four minutes on this broad issue, etc. Well, there may be an opportunity to explain it, but we're holding on to it in a way... Here you go, Mr. Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19941	Mr. Prime Minister, I consider myself a man of tolerance and can agree with most of your response, but I cannot agree that all the troubles of Croatian society are always blamed by the coalition government. It's incorrect, it's incorrect, it's even tasteless.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19942	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Ivan Chehok's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19943	Mr. President, I'm asking my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. You yourself have published in a meeting with social partners and this is said in public that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has failed to sell bonds and commit to other state institutions. We all know, we have witnessed it, we have heard that they have agreed with this and economic experts in Opatija, that it is said by entrepreneurs themselves, that in such crisis situations the only thing that can sustain the growth of the economy is production and export. I'm afraid if the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development will not be able to reprogram the loans and if it will not be able to place new loans and new funds for the preparation of exports, which I must say very successfully thanks to the government's support it did, I'm afraid the Croatian export economy will stop. Since some of these export-preparation loans are already on the charge and as so far, they are not automatically prolonging is about 3.5.4 billion kuna. If this is withdrawn, I repeat the Croatian export economy could stop, and then a well-designed government export strategy will come into question. I ask you, is there any possibility, even if in the budget, even if everyone here in the Parliament together, and we support a change of priorities to help Croatian exporters, to find funds either on the domestic banking market, which is aware that I am difficult or somewhere else or partly from the budget and that we still strengthen Croatian exporters. I am also saying this from very concrete examples of the city and county and the region that is most exporting in Croatia and I must tell you that for the time being, the crisis may not feel the most, but it is the exporters that are afraid, and we all know that those people who see one possibility or a new possibility in every crisis and those who see only the crisis are taken. I think that in this crisis we can see the possibility of still maintaining the Croatian export economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19944	Thank you. I'm warning all MPs and ministers to pay attention when they start blinking this one. Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19945	Okay. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I agree with you, and it is indeed true that HABOR tried to get a loan out there and that this attempt failed. But it is also true that much larger banking institutions than HABOR are, for example, German KFV in even worse problems. So what's going on with HABOR, and we'll do everything we can to prevent the economic activities that go out of its financing and lending from stopping, so my answer to your question right now will do everything we can to make it happen, I just want to put in a wider context. What's going on is happening to everyone, much bigger and much stronger than HABOR. Its equivalent in Germany KFV, as you know, is in great difficulty. We have this year in the budget for HABOR somewhere around 480 million kuna from the budget. This year's gonna be about 500 million. So we're not going to cut that part of the budget going to HABOR, but maybe we'll increase it by some minimum. But what's important, if all these measures come to life that I've been talking about in answer to the question of Mr. Representatives Doric and Cain, if all these measures are in place, then we'll be able to help HABOR and that HABOR can help the economy. And I really want to go back to that, because I don't want to pollemize. The former coalition government with this crisis has nothing to do with it, but it's not the government, either. The situation is such that the issue of recession in Europe is the world's leading countries, today it is up to date that the recession in Germany, that the recession in Italy, is the recession in Japan. So the world's leading industrial powers. So we're here, we're good at sailing for now, but I'm sure we're going to have to, we're going to have to implement these measures in order to be able to talk in about both HABOR and help the economy out of what we talked about earlier, this one fund, help the population, etc. And that's why I, regardless of the difficult situation, can't look forward to pessimism or look at it, I look at it with one real optimism that if Croatia had all this together and if the whole society were to be here together and show commonity, then we would be able to get out of the crisis, we would be able to cross over, but not like some other countries. In this sense and HABOR should not spread any pessimism around HABOR, HABOR is in trouble and HAC is also, we have already said this publicly and this, HAC could not also get in two public tenders, in two calls the international failed to get certain loans. The situation is that banks no longer lend loans, and if they do, they give them on very high terms, very high interest rates. This is the current situation and we are trying with the state budget, with the public finances that we have put into order, we are trying to respond to this challenge and we hope then, of course, we assume that the tourist season will be held at some level or something less than it has been in recent years. If that happens then I think we're going to be in a much better situation in the fall than we are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19946	Thank you. Mr. Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19947	Well, I agree, and I'm aware that you have well cited the example of Germany, but you also know that Angels Merkel have also taken special measures that German banks subsidize just those entrepreneurs, so not public spending and loans on public consumption, but small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, something like this intervention fund that is proposed, so I think I read from your words that the government is also thinking about such an intervention fund. I think that would be at least some compensation for these troubles that the exporters will encounter.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19948	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19949	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will ask Mr Jandrokovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations, and I think that regardless of this financial crisis and the crisis in the world at all, that what is said here today about the crisis, that Croatian foreign policy must go further and that our ministry, our negotiators are working full steam to prepare for Croatia's entry into the European Union. And my question would be, since the European Commission adopted a report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of this month in 2008, I would ask the Minister to tell us that he is assessing the content of this document, whether it is possible and realistic to conclude accession negotiations next year and what it means to us is that the European Commission also spoke for the first time about the date of the negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19950	Thank you. Minister Jandrokovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19951	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respect, Mr. Representative. The Croatian Government is very pleased with the European Commission's report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia for the reason that this report records the progress of the Republic of Croatia in all areas, in all the chapters that are being negotiated. Therefore, Croatia's progress has been recognised, the effort that the Republic of Croatia is making to achieve the criteria needed for full membership has been recognised. And what is particularly important to highlight, in all the chapters negotiated by the European Commission, the European Commission believes that Croatia is making progress. Somewhere that progress is estimated to be great, it's estimated to be good, somewhere in the middle, but in all chapters there's progress. I also want to draw attention to an important element that we may have under-emerged in public. In addition to getting a map of the road that allows us to complete negotiations in 2009, this European Commission document mentions that a financial package should be prepared for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union over the next year. And also, during the Czech Presidency, so in the first half of 2009, a treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union would be joined. So it is two very specific technical documents that just confirm our intention, the European Commission's intention to complete the negotiations during 2009. What should also be pointed out is that this map of times is indicative and conditional. The indicative means that we have received a very precise review of the period during which negotiations on certain chapters should be concluded. So we have by the end of this year how many chapters should end, how many chapters should end in the first half of next year and how many chapters should end in the second half of next year. So we have one very clear map of the road. And why is that road map conditioned? Because Croatia needs to continue and meet the criteria necessary for the completion of the negotiations and for full membership, because Croatia needs to complete the reforms that full membership also provides. In particular, the need for progress in areas such as the judiciary, public administration reform, shipbuilding privatisation, the fight against organised crime and corruption is highlighted. However, the Republic of Croatia is willing to do so, this government is willing to do so, not because of the European Union but because of ourselves, because of our citizens, because even if we are not going in the direction of the European Union, we would have to do so in order to make Croatia competitive, in order to affect the better and better life of our citizens. I would also like to point out that this report also mentioned progress in the use of pre-accession funds, that it has been found that all those shortcomings recorded in the past period, which I also consider to be a very important element, because pre-accession funds are actually excellent preparation for those much more generous funds that we will use when we become a member of the European Union, the cohesion and structural funds that are now countries that are fortunate to be able to use, are indeed numbered in billions of euros. So we can be satisfied. This report is certainly an additional motivation, an additional wind in the back, and I firmly believe that we will finish negotiations by the end of 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19952	Thank you. Mr. Zubovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19953	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I thank you for this exhaustive and positive report of yours, and I can only say that in the Croatian Parliament it means here we have passed laws, over a hundred laws, by the end of the year there may be 120 of them, that we have done the same in the same goal of making the job for Croatia's entry into the European Union as quickly as possible. And surely the Croatian Parliament will not be a narrow throat in all this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19954	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19955	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer the matter to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Bozidar Kalmeta. I better put forward a question of several tens of thousands of citizens along the road, a state road D26 from Vrbovac, Dubrava, Chaze and Garesnica. During the construction of the D41 state road due to excessive use and transport of heavy trucks, significant damage occurred on the D26 state road from Vrbovac towards Chazma and further towards Gareshnica. The damages are such as to endanger the safety of road traffic, but also to make everyday life difficult in the area along the road. Croatian roads were obvious in May 2007 that the contractor, the company Štrabad, started working on the recovery of the damaged stock, so that in October 2007, the Croatian road would give a written reply that the work on the recovery was interrupted for technical reasons. It is better to break up at the border of Zagreb County and Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County and clearly, to date this recovery, this repair and the section in Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County has not continued. Since it was promised last year, and the restoration of the D 26 road in the area of Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County is not even started until the Zagreb County is completed, which we also see from the ministry's written reply that there is a lack of financial resources, the question is whether citizens and units of local self-government can be made by that road, means in that part of the Bjelovar-Bilogorina County, i.e. Moslavina, hope that the resolution of direction D 26 as well as the paveding of that direction to the end, means to Gareshnica because it is the only part of the state road which is the macadam road in this area of northwestern Croatia as well as the bypass around the city of Chazema in the planning documents for the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19956	Thank you. Mr. Calmett's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19957	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Honorable Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The fact is that what Mr. MP said is that when building or maintaining state roads, then because of the excessive use of heavy trucks that must be used when building state roads or highways, there is damage to other roads, whether national or county roads, and even local ones that they use to be in the function of building a particular section of some of the roads. This was the case, and here is Mr. MP speaking, on this road D 26 of Vrbovac towards Chazma, and the damages occurred when building a fast road from Vrbovac to Gradec and after that is a lot of things and rehabilitated and practice is always and when it comes to Croatian highways, so the construction of highways, but also when it comes to building state highways, it is a practice and it is calculated into cost, to resuscitate those roads used, which trucks used, this heavy machinery to build these other some roads. Therefore, when the construction of the fast road Vrbovac-Gradac came about what Mr. MP is talking about and Croatia's roads have already been rehabilitated and will certainly continue. I must say that already next year, the construction of this Bilogor-Podravska Ipsilon will begin from Gradec further towards Virovitica in one direction and towards Koprivnica in the other, and your question, Mr. MP, can be answered that citizens can hope and that next year the resolution will start and D 26 of Virovitica towards Chazma will continue towards Gareshnica with this second section of the project documentation being made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19958	Thank you. Mr. Greek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19959	I thank the Minister for the answer given, and I hope that here the necessary papers will begin according to your answer, i.e. according to the planned documents that I believe we will bring. But what I'm sure the people of this area are looking forward to is that here will be respected and planned deadlines that will be passed on to the planning documents, because in several such planning documents these directions were then lagging behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19960	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19961	The question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Mr. President today but these days you have announced austerity measures, you have announced today that the budget of the state will be slightly higher than this for next year. The possibility of freezing wages has also been announced. Some of your ministers announce the management of health contributions to pensions, participations for health services, an increase in the price of health insurance policies, and others the possibility of an increase in gas prices. You have announced the need to tighten the belt and those who do not have a belt, and you have already formalized one of the austerity measures with the government's decision. This is the one the media specifically interpreted or asked: "Who stole Christmas for the Croats?" In order to review what can be rationalised and reduced, I ask you, are you going to take credit cards from the government tomorrow at a session or next week to make a decision for government members, ministers and governmental leaders, institutions and agencies to take away business credit cards as one contribution to savings, or are you going to ban the sponsorship of sports clubs, because HEP, instead of building centrals, is sponsoring sports clubs? And can you answer me now whether that 2005 group of experts you've formed that she's been studying, here for four years now, my proposal for the Law on Preferred Pensions, gave you the answer and what is their answer to that bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19962	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19963	Mr. Representative, we didn't announce anything by tightening the belt. You haven't heard that word from me. You may have heard that from someone else. What we have announced is that the state will cut the budget for 15 billion kunas as was the original projection for 2009, and that we will agree with the social partners eventually other measures, not by freezing wages, because the salaries and that's what I have to say to the public for the part up there, for example, which is 0.5%, that's regression, Christmas and everything that goes with it. All together somewhere around 2 whole or 590 million, two wholes and something. So this one package we're talking about with the social partners, very responsible, very open, where we've presented the situation, it's not true that it refers to what you said. And certainly there will be a measure among some of which you mentioned, but also some that I mentioned in the previous answers not to repeat them now. We are thinking about everything, about rationalisation and in the state administration, but don't forget that this state administration, that's what MP Doric said, must finish negotiations with the European Union in this year 2009. And that we can't just ignore the fact that this job is someone's particular work. Therefore, there is no point in saying that in a situation where we must also reform the public administration, etc. We're going down on public and public services. We're not gonna do that. We ask them to do a big job, a historic job for Croatia, and then we have to treat them that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19964	Thank you. Mr. Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19965	I'm going to ask Mr. President for a written answer because the last part of my question you obviously didn't hear because someone was distracting you as it usually is, so I'm asking you to answer in writing because I wasn't talking about government services here, I was not even talking about officials. But in your written reply, you have certainly answered whether you have received a response from a group of experts that you formed in 2005 to study my proposal for a law on preferential pensions and what their opinion is.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19966	Thank you. Ms. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19967	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I refer my question to Justice Minister Dr Ivan Šimonovic. Dear Ministers, what will the Ministry of Justice, together with the police and the State's Attorney's Office, do and do about bribery by calling a donation to the Commercial Court in Zagreb by the Zagreb Holding Office, is known for the approval and warrant of the current mayor, Mr. Milan Bandic?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19968	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19969	Thank you very much. I made a decision on administrative oversight and inspection on 4 November, and this hour is at the Commercial Court in Zagreb. I think we'll have her final results by November 21st. Of course it will then be announced and that the result of inspection will be known. What I can answer you right now, however, is that according to Article 151(2). The law on courts is legally possible for cities, districts, municipalities, to participate with their resources in the construction of capital facilities in the judiciary. On the basis of this legal provision, in 2005, the City of Zagreb signed a grant agreement with the Ministry of Justice for 3 million kuna for the Trade Court in Zagreb and for its new building. Under the agreement, the city of Zagreb had more payments to the trade court than was notified by the Ministry of Justice. However, the situation here is different. It is about the payment of the Holding and not about the payment of the City of Zagreb. The fact is that Holding is entirely owned by the City of Zagreb, but Holding has a separate legal personality and the payment of Holding is not in accordance with Article 151(2). I can also tell you that it was a deposit of 2 hundred thousand kuna and that money has not yet been spent. I can also tell you that it turns out that the Commercial Court in Zagreb has made two mistakes. The first mistake is that he actually made a donation with Holding. The second is that on the occasion of reporting to the Ministry of Justice as a source of donation, he indicated the City of Zagreb rather than Holding. So the Justice Department didn't know who the source of that donation was. I don't think there's any reason after Mayor Bandic's statement to suspect he wasn't informed. He was informed, but in fact, the whole donation agreement did not respect the conditions that only the cities, municipalities or counties could be donors. It's about the current state of administrative oversight and its results.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19970	Mrs. Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19971	Thank you very much. Here, I am pleased with your response from the Minister, including the measures you've taken so far. However, I must tell you that the citizens of the city of Zagreb and the general public are interested in this case, precisely because it is also the person of the mayor, which is known to everyone who now has more criminal charges. Therefore, it is important that the public knows that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19972	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19973	Minister Jandrokovic's question. But it's not about foreign policy. It's about corruption at the Foreign Ministry. What's this about? All our embassies have the cost of carrying out information. It's usually about less money to buy newspapers and things like that. However, the two embassies account for millions. It's about the embassy in Washington and the embassy in London. In Washington, between 2000 and the sixth month of this year, when I had data for promotion and information, it spent 7 million 129 thousand 965 kuna. But you see, even 83% of that cost lobbying. The Embassy in London spent 4 million 340 kunas in the same period for promotion and information. But interestingly enough, 90% of that amount is lobbying costs. During the 2000-2004 period, no embassy has, either of these two in their accounting cards, registered lobbying costs. This phenomenon occurs with HDZ coming to power. According to what I've heard about the lobby companies that have paid off this great money, they're doing the daughters of a prominent and highly-positioned HDZ colleague of your former colleague. My question is what's the name of a prominent HDZ man who managed to figure out how to disappear 10 million kuna from the state budget this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19974	Thank you. Mr. Minister Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19975	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Representative Stazic, I thank you for your question. You opened it up in words that it was corruption at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. So it's about a very difficult accusation that you're going to have to prove. I don't know where you get the information you presented here to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. We can talk about this later so I can see that data, check it out with that data we have at the Foreign Ministry, see if it's true. I can tell you what I told the Croatian public several times already, and these are the costs that are recorded, which are transparent and concerning lobbying services from 2004 to 2008. And they're moving, I can't say it by heart right now, but if I have to, I'll give them to you in writing, about EUR 1.1 million in four years. So from 2004 to 2008. One part of these costs was paid to lobbying companies in the United States and one part was spent on some companies here in Europe in the United Kingdom. There's nothing questionable about that. The statements are therefore clear, transparent. You can see it in the budget. It's not a secret. Contracts have been signed which have also been published by the Croatian public, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there are those items and none of them escape because it is not about the money thrown away, but about the money spent on the welfare of the Republic of Croatia and for the benefit of its citizens. As can be seen today, the foreign policy position of the Republic of Croatia is better than ever. We're at the door of the NATO Alliance. We will conclude negotiations with the European Union by the end of 2009. We're a regional leader. We are a member of the Security Council of the United Nations and, of course, the assistance was used by lobbying companies in countries whose political system works in a way that also uses lobbying companies, and that is not strange. And as for the 2000-2004 period, you invested 0 kunas in lobbying but the result was zero especially in the United States. And the easiest thing is, it's the easiest thing not to spend anything and do nothing. [[Applause.]] And we're still going to be spending our resources rationally. We will continue to spend our resources rationally. In this year, we cut Mr. Stajic if you'd like to hear it, we've cut the budget costs by 45 million kuna. Next year, we'll also keep expenses at the level of this year, and we're not ashamed of it. Anything you want to see, we'll show you everything. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19976	Thank you. Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19977	You tell ministers that from 2000 to 2004, zero kuna was spent on lobbying costs, but that the result was also in foreign policy. Yeah, there were zero kunas in private pockets. You haven't answered my question about which high-ranking HDZ is for whose daughters work in these lobbyist companies you've paid 10 million kuna. You don't know it or you don't know it. You say you don't know about this data. You either don't know it or you don't want to say it. It's awkward for both of you. If you don't know, then you don't control the corridor you control, so you'd better leave it to someone else. If you don't want to say it, then you're covering up an incredible corruption affair at the top of power. So I ask the Minister one written answer, and he will be a witness to how personally you are involved in this affair or not involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19978	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19979	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I refer my question to the Minister of Culture Mr. Bozi Bishop and refers to another area or is related to the book and those who sell the book. Lately, we have seen a problem in the area of library, especially among small and medium-sized book sellers and distributors and activities. So small and medium bookstores. What does the Ministry of Ministers do besides having a book subsidy programme but so important for this area for Croatian society?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19980	Thank you. Mr. Bishop, Minister Bishop, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19981	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. That problem isn't newer. It's an old problem. In fact, at the time of the Homeland War, the system of bookstores died. And for a number of reasons. On the one hand there was a war, on the other hand very few books were published. And on the third side in large cities, one part of the space is on that return, and in this way in some places the bookstores have completely disappeared, let's say the scientific bookstores in Zagreb in Preradović Square. This, in fact, from that problem during the war, where we were able to help ourselves, I had already, and at that moment after the war, appealed to mayors and mayors, to local self-government to help in some way and to stimulate the opening of bookstores because bookstores are the points of culture. They are, especially in places where there are no others or there are not many other places also precious spaces, they are not just shops, I don't know, shoes or diets, they are dapacts of culture where people are interested in the book, people who love the book gather, talk about it and buy the book. But lately, the situation has actually improved. We are not only because of these measures that the Ministry is taking now but of course because it has improved in the overall situation in the economy, publishing, publishing is growing which of course the state subsidizes and helps some, in the area of culture with some 60 million kuna, and from, this science and education far more. But also because we took some measures, in 2007, we began to stimulate in bookstores, in those bookstores that have certain programs to encourage, to read magazines and books and to encourage real interest in the book, to support and co-finance these programs. However, perhaps the most interesting actually is this new, new joint programme of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Culture, which can include bookstores that are relatively modest this year, only 2 million kunas, but which in the future and will grow because it has proved only in this short time after the opening of the competitions that 453 are interested not only in bookstores but of course artists and art organizations, interested in the loan or grants that are given up to 100 thousand kuna. So we think that it will also help bookstores but I'm still appealing to local self-government, to cities and municipalities, those that can somehow, in some ways, stimulate the bookshop into space and that these spaces don't cost as much as they cost, say, shoe stores and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19982	Mr. Shetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19983	So here I believe that this programme of entrepreneurship in culture and the Croatian periphery will profit more from where library is even harder and difficult to circulate all the books in it. Here, thanks for asking. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19984	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic asked a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19985	The question is for the president of the Croatian government. Mr President, in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for this term, inter alia, in point 18 of pension insurance and social care, there is the introduction of a state support institute. I quote: “By defining criteria and legal framework, we will create preconditions for introducing a state - support institute. The right to state support would result in older and powerless persons without any income. Croatian citizens with more than 65 years of life who live continuously in Croatia for more than 40 years or with an interruption of more than 50 years. The amount of State support would be at the level of permanent maintenance aid. The deadline of the first half of 2008." As we see the first half of 2008 has long expired and the end is approaching, but the state budget is approaching, and in Croatia lives 120,000 people over 65 who do not have pensions, of which 60,000 are somewhere around half of them not only have pensions, but they have no property and no income. No, no, half of those 120,000 have nothing, they don't have anything, Mr. Prime Minister. I ask what we are going to do about this, or what you are going to do, whether this category of these fellow citizens of ours, who are going to live in an argument, are going to be the most difficult position in Croatia. Will there be room for them in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19986	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19987	Mr. Representative, you're right about this issue and it's really our agreement and a coalition proposal and a government programme. What we need to know is that without economic activity, there is no revenue in the budget. We can only cover ourselves with as many blankets as we can right now. Therefore, that obligation of ours remains and my answer to your question is yes, that's what we'll do. If we're gonna do it now, probably hard. I could be selling demagogue here right now, maybe we will, maybe we won't. But it's a tough situation. One way we all hang together on a thread, stick to that thread. What we're trying to do is make a rope as thick as possible to get through the situation as little as possible. So, this obligation of ours remains, and it's certain we'll get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19988	Thank you. Mr. Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19989	I can hardly say I'm unhappy with the answer, Mr. President. I can understand you in principle, but I'm disappointed. Here's one more time to tell you I can't accept logic and I hope none of us here that the economic crisis is global, our domestic, etc. That it could be an alibi, an excuse not to do what we have to do here. The lack of elemental social solidarity is not a financial issue. Mr. President, it's about people you, me, and the people sitting in this hall that we don't even see. These are people who live on the edges of society. They don't have their own political associations. They don't have unions. No one will represent them today at this meeting. They're people who don't even go to the polls because they don't have political commitment. They're people from the edges of society. Don't let them be people with the edges of our conscience. Believe me, 30,000 of these people don't even receive social assistance. They're existentially compromised. The crisis and the lack of money and the deterioration of the existence of all our citizens are particularly difficult to hit. On the contrary, that's exactly why we need to find a way for these people to degrade them. I think elemental solidarity is also at stake here, in action, violence, corruption that we have in Croatia. I think this crisis of morality and compassion, solidarity is a bigger problem than the current financial crisis we have. I'm asking you to consider that when you're doing the program. It's not too much money.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19990	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Davor Huška's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19991	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, respected members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to ask the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Mr. Bozidar Pankretić. As I come from the Pakrac and Lipika area where freshwater fishing is developed, as well as in many parts of Croatia's mainland, I will continue to ask a question about the problem of freshwater fishing. The state and problems of freshwater fishing are being monitored from the beginning of the independent Republic of Croatia. The main problems are resolving the legal status of ponds, which will be resolved by the adoption of a new Agricultural Land Act. Then the problem of financial consolidation of the freshwater fisheries sector, and the high water compensation which is also being addressed. The objective problem and the problem of fished birds on fish stocks that are protected as well as other protected animals, the connection and symbiosis of fish and fishbirds, and, in particular, a small and large black crow known as cormorant and other protected species, with about 160 protected bird species being an unbreakable link regardless of whether the area concerned is a protected or unprotected part of nature. Of course it doesn't mean anything to the birds. It is known that during the past term, the Ministry of Agriculture, during Minister Cobankovic, has partially suffered damage from nature protection funds, as fish-eating birds have been inflicted on fishermen, but the problem has not been solved in the long term. So again, complaints from freshwater fish owners about the damage caused by fished birds are repeated. I'm asking a question. What has been done to reduce their costs and to introduce a model for the conservation of ponds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19992	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19993	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, here, I'll use at the beginning just to say one sentence about today's state of freshwater fishing, where I'm going to say that today's current production of 4000 tonnes per year is unsatisfactory, since we know that our potentials are almost 12000 tonnes or three times larger and that we have also developed infrastructure, that we have genetics, that we have professional people, and most importantly we have a market. In any case, this problem of fish-eating birds is, of course, a debt almost I would say for 18 years and make it very difficult. Realizing these problems, we said, this year I would definitely solve this problem by introducing a support called the maintenance of the pond ecosystem where, in agreement with all breeders, we have defined to help them in the most concrete way with support per hectare, in a way to mitigate the consequences they have in that part, but to in some way and to preserve and protect nature as far as that part is concerned. Therefore, this problem has been solved and I believe and according to the agreement, those problems that the state had in view of the lawsuits that were brought directly against the Republic of Croatia itself have been solved. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19994	Thank you. Mr. Hushka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19995	I thank you for your answer. I'm pleased with him, and I'm sure he'll be happy to own the freshwater ponds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19996	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. He's gone. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19997	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government with members of the government. I will refer my question to the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Djurji Adlesic. In fact, Mrs Adlesic, who was prompted by a conversation with a member of the Croatian Army and a mission, decided to ask you this question. You've been staying this year, this summer in Afghanistan, visiting our soldiers in Kabul, meeting them, talking and seeing the situation they live in. Our soldiers there are indeed responsible and professionally doing their job, but daily they are truly in a perilous and serious situation. After visiting the 11th Contingent of the Croatian Army in Kabul, you saw the need to provide military psychologists in the mission who would certainly believe them with the help of adapting and living and working under these specific conditions. Are these military psychologists sent on missions and will they be permanent members of the Croatian military contingent in the mission to Afghanistan, I believe in our next missions if there are?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19998	Thank you. Vice President, Mrs. Adlesich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u19999	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, I will be happy to answer your question. You are indeed right, our soldiers there defend the honor of the country, they are praised by the generals both American and German, and what can especially touch any of us who has a chance to meet and see how they do their job is the attitude of the civilian population towards them and, of course, vice versa. They may be the only soldiers who, in their spare time, dig wells, build kindergartens, share children’s water, and thus show that soldiers who came from the homeland war and who understand war and foreign armies in a different way. True, they do work under difficult conditions and need them except adequate equipment and professional assistance. Psychologists were already this summer and after one expert group that was staying this summer, a decision was made that the departure of psychologists would become a rule, not more of an exception than the next contingent. This year, it will be 295 soldiers the maximum of which is the Parliament, brought 300 soldiers, but our soldiers should be prepared for return from Afghanistan and similar countries for resociation. It's a process that starts over and just these days there's a group of experts in Minnesota who are going to propose the best American models for our soldiers. I think I should mention one procedure that's going on right now. In fact, in the 7th month, the government sent a proposal to the Supreme Commander to establish a special medal for peacekeeping missions because soldiers are paid as much as all of us, but also the honor they truly deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20000	Thank you. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20001	Thank you. Madam Vice President, so I told you that I was moved to this issue by talking to a member of Sisak who was a police officer, a member of the police force, but was seen as an exceptional soldier, as an exceptional member and representative of Croatia in these missions, and he received just one side of the prize. So it's a good thing you just said that we started thinking about rewarding these soldiers and giving one confession, here's to what they're doing, not only here, but also outside Croatia on missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20002	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20003	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, MPs and MPs, gentlemen and Madam Ministers. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Bozidar Pankretić. Mr. Minister, for the past week I have met representatives of rural associations and family economies from Sisak-Moslavina County, Zagreb County, Brod-Posavia County, Osijek-Baranja County and Vukovar-Srijem County. I've been briefed on a deal they made with you and your co-workers in the ministry regarding the purchase of corn. They told me they were satisfied with the deal they made with you, and the deal was that it would be a market price for corn, but it would increase the incentive by 1,000 kuna per hectare, it would be 2 250 kuna per hectare. The peasants were happy to go home, hand over their corn in silos to the great redeemers, and then they were welcomed by a cold shower. Instead of EUR 0,80 per kilogram, as much as the market price at the time of the deal, the buyers offered them a half-price for their corn, which is not enough for them to cover the cost of repromation, let alone earn something on their work. It's absurd that these same corn buyers sell at three times the price and export it. Mr. Minister, I'd like to know if you consider this kind of behavior to be a redeemer, among which, I must say, an open front to Agrokor, correct towards the peasants? I wonder if there are instruments, whether this government has the instruments to prevent it and how when the ransom price is not real, it is determined by well-known players who, thinking only of their own benefit, deprive the peasants of their work, pain and effort and ultimately harm the entire Croatian society, and the positive measures you are implementing are falling into the shadows.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20004	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20005	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. I will say as I have already mentioned today that this year, apart from the wheat, we have an extremely good harvest of corn. The record offerings of nearly 2 million and 500 thousand tonnes certainly tell us that we will be able to welcome much better what is ahead of us, and that is what I would say the food prices that will be tied to this business part, which is corn. The problems we faced, I would say, were solved in the way we solve almost all the problems in the ministry, which is to sit together with our producers, along with those who are most directly interested and come from a common conclusion. And as you said, that meeting offered two options and after a lot of talks our agricultural producer said we would stick to that agreement that was discussed by the previously respected representative, to consult with the representatives, the ones they represent today. I will point out that Mr Slavko Novakovic, the Association of Agricultural Family Economics, attended the meeting. Velimir Miksec, Association of Agricultural Producers of Central Croatia. Stjepan Brcković, Association of Agricultural Producers of Central Croatia. Darko Grivicic, The Peasant Union. Mouse Sklempe, The Peasant Alliance. Stanko Zdravčević, Association of peasants. Antun Laslo and Mato Mlinaric. I just want to point out that it's still representative, they've all come and they've decided and they've defined and they've said, give us European terms, so 300 euros for corn incentive, which I have to say, that an additional 300 million kuna is in the budget, which is huge money, we all have to respect the current situation, and they said we'll define ourselves on the market and agree on it. We know there are 250 buyers, there are bigger ones, there are smaller ones, and of course we've done this whole job maximumly in agreement with agricultural producers and their representatives. What is currently happening on the market is unfortunately the fact and reflection of the market that surrounds us, primarily the market in Budapest, unfortunately where the price is now and below the price offered by some buyers. However, I think we can deal with that competition in that part too. I have to say that most of the corn in our agricultural producers is secured for their own needs and for livestock production and that is what confirms that the justification for investment in livestock production that we did in the first quarter of this year opened up the possibility and the use of extremely good births of corn. I believe that in that part it will be presented as is said in the price. And I honestly expect that definitely prices and livestock food, and then definitely meat, will follow the relatively low world and our price of corn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20006	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20007	Mr. Minister, I appreciate the positive measures you've taken, these prices and peasant associations, because wheat and corn have enough and there's no reason to collect food. I also appreciate the partnership you're developing with the peasant organizations. I'm worried that there is an incorrect behaviour of a buyer on the market and large companies that are damaging to agricultural producers by their behaviour. I believe that this crisis that we are in today can be used as our own chance exactly in a way to place a Croatian peasant product on the market and to get an adequate price. I'm afraid that games without borders run by these great players that I've already mentioned reduce our objective chances and reduce in some way and overshadow the measures that are good and that you are implementing and I think that such behaviour should finally end.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20008	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20009	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My question concerns the setting up of judicial departments for the handling of criminal offences in the jurisdiction of the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, popularly called "USKOK-Courts" and I refer it to the Minister of Justice, Dr. Shimonovic. I am interested, and I am also convinced of the Croatian public, at which stage you are facing problems in forming these "USKOK courts" and that it is also according to what criteria the choice of judges of these courts will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20010	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20011	Thank you very much. At the end of last month, I brought in the Rules of Procedure, which is in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice, which established the establishment of the "USKOK departments". They are established in four county courts, so Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, with the establishment of USKOK departments of municipal courts in the same centres as needed. Because why these municipal courts? It's simply in order for minor cases to be left to these actually lower courts, and for these USKOK-based stakes to be dealt with at the county level in those most difficult cases. What's the status? I promised, and I will try to keep my promise that on 1 January 2009, we have operational USKOK departments. This does not mean that not the normative solution, but that the USKOK departments begin to work with January 1. Of course, in order to accomplish that, there's a lot to go on. I am taking the opportunity to thank the President of the Supreme Court of Croatia and the presidents of the county courts with whom a number of meetings were held. We already have a list of judges who are candidates for the judges of the USKOK department. I'm saying they're candidates, because they have to pass the security clearance. This security check under the law takes a minimum month, so there's really not much time. We'll parallel with running checks, making other assumptions about the operation of USKOK departments. I can't, of course, talk about the names of those candidates because I need to wait for them to pass the checks, although I am very confident that they will all pass those checks successfully. What I can say about candidates is that a pleasant surprise was the response of the judges and their willingness to participate in USKOK departments. Apparently the judges are ready to plant their backs. So we managed to get volunteers from those most experienced judges, those whose work has been qualified to conduct the most difficult and most sensitive procedures. What I'd just like to mention is that we're going to need some normative changes to be able to carry that out. That means you're going to have to go to change the Law on Courts. Namely, judges in the jumping departments will also have a higher salary in which those working in the USKOK as part of the state's attorney's office. So, we're going to follow the state's attorney's model and the USKOK, and by analogy, we're actually going to reward the judges of these departments further. To this end, I also count on the support of the Parliament, which means that we are changing the Law on Judges' Payments in this direction according to an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20012	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sesvetan.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20013	Well, first of all, I will say that I am certainly satisfied with the answer, but also repeat the expectations of the public and the desire to make those jumping courts work as soon as possible because I say of them great expectations regarding the prevention of corruption and organised crime, primarily through their greater efficiency and faster judgments in these cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20014	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Boris Shmrem's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20015	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government, members of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The question is for Mr. Prime Minister. General Gordan Cacic, 17.7 this year, was appointed as State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. According to the information available to me, he remains in the status of the active military. The question for Mr. Prime Minister is: Is it true that Mr. Cacic is still in active military status today, although this must not be under the Armed Forces Act. There was plenty of time to solve this issue. And secondly, does the Government of the Republic of Croatia support that generals as active military personnel perform state political duties.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20016	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20017	Mr. Representative, not that the government does not support this, but it is simply not a democratic practice and it will not be in Croatia. In this particular case, it would be better if you'd referred the matter to the Secretary of Defense. Now I've asked him, all his rights are at rest. So he doesn't have that right, not now. This was also agreed with the President of the Republic and with the Commander-in-chief, and I think that this particular case will have already been resolved in this way for all his rights to rest. If further measures are to be taken, they will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20018	Thank you. Mr. Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20019	Mr. Prime Minister, the fact is it's Article 190. The Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed, and I quote: "The active military person rests the service in the event that it is appointed to public or administrative duty outside the Ministry of Defence." As Mr. Cacic was appointed to the Ministry of Defence, then the only way out is to stop him from being an active military person, otherwise he cannot perform that political duty. One of those two things. The law is clear here. This interpretation, unfortunately, cannot stand. I can understand that you may have gotten such an interpretation, but it's not accurate, and what I said is certainly accurate. Besides, I wouldn't want to, and we wouldn't want to, I hope, that what we left deep behind, that, as a practice between the military and politics, is worth it. I hope that you, in agreement with the President of the Republic, will resolve the issue so that everyone is satisfied and in that sense I believe that you will do so and I do not ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20020	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20021	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Mr. Milinovic, Minister of Health. Mr Milinović, to our multiple warnings that the health system is in collapse and that neither you nor you know how to solve the accumulated problems of Croatian health care, without violating the Constitution guaranteeing the right to a solidarity, comprehensive and all equally accessible health care, you regularly responded that everything was fine. Just ten days ago, you even said, quote: "Croatian health care system is the best in Europe." We saw last week how true it was. You have rejected all our warnings, as Prime Minister Sanader has rejected warnings that security is at risk, that Minister Roncevic is not doing his job. However, we were right and Minister Roncevic left. You haven't yet. However, you complete the debacle of your health policy by announcing new duties. Just a few months ago, you lifted a 10 kuna fee admitting it was a mistake. And now your entire reform, which by definition would have to be a correction of mistakes, build on even bigger mistakes and introduce 15 kuna participation. The sick and powerless will have to pay again every prescription, every manual, every review, every departure to their family doctor. Where did the poor Croatian citizens come from? You say, if they find it expensive, they pay extra health care. But, Mr. Minister, they don't have any money for that either. Because of the lack of concern of the current government, they are completely poor, no longer for food. You're obviously not interested in that at all. You are more interested in how to enable private insurance companies to profit from health money. In particular, you've come down on pensioners, all those who are old and sick. Now you're imposing on them some other medical contribution that they've never had to pay before. Isn't it possible that you don't realize that they don't have the money for those accusations? So when they don't, they won't be able to pay. If they don't pay, they'll lose their right to treatment. Too late in Roncevic's shift, unfortunately, we had to pay dearly. Mr. Minister, what will be the cost of missing your reform?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20022	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Darko Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20023	I've been a few times... I thank you for asking, Mr. President. I've said it a few times, let's rise above the scrawny interests. I was in the river about 4.5 days ago. You received that invitation to participate in a public debate. I've held a public debate on the health system reform proposal before more than 3,000. When I came to Rijeka, I heard a song coming into the hall. I thought, I was watching you might be with me because you're there domestic, so maybe I'll give you a round. I didn't see you. They were colleagues, they were mayors, they were primarys. The great journalists are thousands of people, I'm modest, so I say about 800. So the public presentation of the Reform Proposal ended. And I also went to President Mesic and accepted some good suggestions, so President Mesic said... I asked the president I can say that you accepted part of the reform, not part but a large part. Then, when we finished the public presentation, I asked why I got a round of applause when I came in. Because we broke that first wall of demagogy like you just said. We've reached the ears of people, so the state pays for the participation of a million and 800 thousand people, 355,000 pensioners, 170 thousand students. You're even saying that students will have to pay for participation. 300, 220 thousand unemployed, 230 thousand social categories, 550,000 others. So, in a million and 800 thousand states will pay for the participation. Since you didn't have time to get to a public meeting, in front of a thousand people in Rijeka. I don't know why. So you haven't had time to read a full report from the European Commission that says that the Health Care Act is well established in Croatia, access to your own medical records, participation of patients in decision-making, right. That's at the end of that report. But you were actually reading the beginning where we were a little criticized. And they said this, in the Republic of Croatia, we couldn't come and it was a mistake of the Croatian Institute of Public Health and others, to complete the data, but that they were all collected, read this report to the end. Croatia would be the leader of the region and it is the leader of the region and in the health system, and I said we are not the best that we are one of the best organised systems in Europe. Where they call us, they're recipes. That's what we'll have at the end of next year primary health care without paper. I'm sorry that you haven't experienced it and I recommend myself once again, I will come to you personally to present to you a proposal for reform which is a large part. Here's your thousand Rivers and my thousand River Friends, my colleague accepted it as I accepted some good suggestions from the president of state and union. Imagine, and they're mostly there, is reform mostly part of structural nature? But don't scare people, we're doing a generally acceptable social project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20024	Mr. Representative Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20025	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I wasn't present, but I was in the Assembly's second position, but if I hadn't been to give you a round of applause, like Dr. Andrija Stamper wouldn't. He's turning around in the grave before right now, because you're giving the final blow to public health with your reform. You said you were looking for a consensus. You really did it. I congratulate you. You have created the widest consensus against you, against HDZ, against your health policy, against your decision... and the powerless. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The unions and the doctors and the pensioners, even your coalition partners, stood up. Mr. Minister, I'll repeat what I've already said. The Grimm brothers got a decent competition for you. You're talking fairy tales. But this story about health reform, it's particularly tragic, we can also call it a fairy tale howler for wages and pensions. Mr. Prime Minister, the fairy tale was transmitted by oral surrender. Just write that reform of yours once, so we can read it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20026	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20027	Your Honor. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Dr Ivo Sanader why you think the Director of Police is not the place to discuss measures, how to reduce corruption and crime, but to place him on the street. At the same time, you believe that it is the place in these discussions, for example to a state lawyer who should be prosecuted by criminals or the President of the Supreme Court to be tried. My question is, will you ban the Head of Police from speaking at the invitation of the parliamentary working bodies about what the whole of Croatia is buzzing about?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20028	Thank you. Prime Minister Mr. Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20029	Mr. Agent, I can see from this question of yours that I had full support when I appointed the Director of Police to the post. And nice to meet you. Since I appointed him, and you gave him support, not by voting, so it can be called a little bit of a hypocritical approach, because now you're defending him for God's sake, and when he had to be supported by the whole team, he wasn't voted on but on the whole team of ministers, etc., then we didn't have that support, but I'm glad that you support him and I'm glad that the results are achieved. But what will allow you to as Prime Minister who is most responsible for executive power, and the police are in the executive system that I decide what is in line with European practice as Prime Minister, when you are Prime Minister, if you ever do, then you will decide and you will have public support for it or you will not have public support. I can tell you this, come forward on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior can the Minister, the Secretary of State can have them several, can in certain situations and the Director. What the Director of Police can't do is politicize. The Director of Police can't come to the round table and say and lower fire on everything that was before him, and he himself was also part of that system and that's what I said he didn't belong there. There was a place in Karamarku, there was a secretary of state, and that's the government I run. When you are and if you are in a position to lead the government, then perhaps you will behave differently. But even then and today definitely a place for the police director, I didn't tell you on the street, you only took one piece. That's your practice, by the way. I said at the desk, with cops and on the street. Therefore, there is his place, and it is not to say what was before and to perform on a round table, to perform certain true and rhetorical figures which are being brought down upon those who were before him. Or let me finish. The Chief Director of Police has my full support, and I have proved this by having him at the same cabinet session, calling that he should not have been on that district table, but to solve these cases that the whole of Croatia is buzzing about, and so are you, but in the same session of the government I appointed him and signed his appointment as head of police. Therefore, this team has full support, but I am asking them as Prime Minister and most responsible for the executive power in this country to solve these cases, not to politicize, but to find not only the murderers, but also those who ordered them.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20030	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20031	Yeah. So, there's no problem with where he was or should have been head of police, the problem is that the police director was saying or what the police director was saying and what he was doing. And he said what the citizens think, and the citizens think that for five years the eyes have been closed to problems and that for five years he has not faced crime and corruption, but has created a false image of security in Croatia. It's not the one who brings the bad news and doesn't need to kill the messenger of bad news, it's the one who didn't do everything to make the state better. It's not a problem with the Director of Police, the problem is that the Prime Minister has no one left to write his praises and that there has been an accidental vote on the Director of Police in this House, I would support that decision, as we support you for calling Faber the Director of Police.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20032	Thank you. It's nice to hear that to support. It's Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20033	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government. I'd like to ask the prime minister a question. Namely, the General County Hospital in Pakrac is in a thick minus, the heating is 27 years old and on the exhale, the kitchen is in extremely poor condition, the laundry room has a temperature or does not go down below 40 degrees, there is no emergency reception. That's why we have a recent hospital director in Pacrac, and according to final judgments, the court has determined a payment of 2.6 million kuna for the death of a 30-year-old mother of two children, and the other because of the heavy disability of a six-year-old boy who lost his hand. The hospital has no money and 5.11. the minister directs the hospital to the Požega-Slavon County budget. Also, let me tell you. Director of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Požega since he was rewarded by the family center's directorship, for this, but he did a million-dollar damage that the court ruled by such and determined by the final verdict and we are at the expense of that home. Home has no money except that 150 people don't eat and 50 employees don't get paid. The minister also heads home to Požega-Slavon County or its budget. So, Mr. Prime Minister County is really willing to help, that's true, but we have one problem. Not guilty or indemnity... We've fed banks and creditors, so far it's some 40 million kunas, of course they've sat down behind our necks and that's from the damage 300 million kuna in which she participated or which was made with the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have money presidents for these directions from our ministry, so I'm cordially giving you one correct question. When will you finally get involved in the settlement of this damage?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20034	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20035	Here, I'm going to invite you to come back and talk to the Minister of Finance again, and let's see again because you're not only earnestly suggesting that we get involved, but you're also constantly talking about the damage of 300 million kuna and persistently. The finance minister has other information, and he put them out in public. I'm up for it, let's sit down once but seriously come to the ministry with your associates, bring all the documents to finally see where this damage is and what damage it is and see what the state can really help you not only but any other county. We're open to helping the county but not in a way to say that 300 million kuna damage has been done with the government's influence or how you've already formulated it. Therefore, come to the Ministry of Finance. We're ready to sit down, see. Bring out all the documents, the argument. We will see and study how much damage that damage has been and what the state can help. I can't answer anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20036	Thank you. Mr. Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20037	Thank you very much for your answer. But of course I'm not happy because we've been to Minister Shuker's several times. First of all, he misbehaved when it comes to numbers and I'd like you to find me another spokeswoman. Besides, I've begged you about a dozen times to contact us so we can sit down with you because it's not worth it, I'm telling you loud and clear. Now, if we're going to make such a deal that we can sit down my team and yours, yes, but it's no use to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20038	Thank you. And before the break, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20039	Thank you, Mr. President. My question goes to the Deputy Prime Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and what is most important to the guardian of the coalition agreement and reads. I read the government program in detail. It says the coalition will work for the development and prosperity of Croatia. Nowhere in this agreement have I found the following items of 50,000 workers to fire, to reduce tourist appetites, salaries frozen, taxes to increase, shipyards to sell out. My question is, is there another secret government programme that provides for the layoff of 50,000 workers, the freezing of salaries and the increase of taxes and which is unknown to the public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20040	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20041	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I'm glad you're reading the government program because you have a lot to learn from this program. Since your question can't be considered too serious I'll still try to answer seriously and tell you next. So despite the fact that in Croatia too, the effects of the financial crisis are felt, above all in the real sector, the financial crisis which was not caused by either this, or the former, or any other government, but is definitely the result of global movements that come primarily from the US market, despite the fact that the crisis is very much felt and will be felt in front of us with indicators of the situation in the Croatian economy, you may be unsatisfactory and I will say the unemployment rate, for example, speaks in favour of the fact that at the end of the 10th month this year, 23 thousand 610 persons are less unemployed in Croatia than in the same month of 2007, that our rate of economic growth is naturally reduced by far more than the rate of economic growth in countries with which we most want to compare and love to compare. I mean Central European countries. And despite the fact that there is a crisis, we are still talking today about believing that the trend will eventually be reduced, or the rate of unemployment decline, but we're not talking, and you've never heard from any government member that's going to come up with the big layoffs that you're calling for and that you're talking about here. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, read the government program one more time. Like I said, you'll have something to learn from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20042	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20043	Thank you, Mr. President. They're listening to Mr. Vice President's response. I've gotten the impression that we're not living in the same country. All of this I've listed could only be found in one number of any daily newspapers in the last week. But I was hoping that at least if you haven't already published you have some kind of program to get out of this situation, that was my question, and that's why I'm worried because it seems to me that all the measures that are being pulled depend on the current inspiration of the members of the government, so in that inspiration, we're playing a little bit, so what happens to us is that because of that Christmas, we're laughing at the whole world. And unfortunately, I don't think we're going to have that much more reason to laugh than to worry. That's why I'm not even satisfied and I'm worried about the answer to my question. And the coalition program I'll do, don't be afraid to keep reading because there's a lot of things that aren't being written, don't be afraid for it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20044	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Committee for European Integration has scheduled a meeting today at 14 o'clock in the hall of Josip Šokčević and the Committee for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development tomorrow at 8:30 am in Janko Draskovic's hall. And now break to 12 and 20 when we continue to ask parliamentary questions. 12 and 20. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the parliament and counsel, we continue to ask questions. The first is Mr. Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20046	President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We see that an increasing number of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War decide with the help of the Ministry of Defence to establish defence cooperatives. If I'm not mistaken, they've been founded around 260 so far. My question is to the Secretary of Defense, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. What does the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity do to promote the activities of Croatian defenders' cooperatives, and how can the ministry assist defence cooperatives in a joint market performance in order to make them as successful as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20047	Thank you. Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20048	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, thank you very much for asking that question. I have talked in this House several times about programmes and measures for the employment of Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders who are ours as we call it the targeted employment group, i.e. for the implementation of the programme. As for the cooperative employment programme and I said I will repeat it several times today, it is one of the programs that gives absolutely the best results and by the number of Croatian defenders that are covered by this measure, here at this time we have managed to employ more than 10 thousand Croatian defenders and children of the dead, imprisoned and missing, but right now through the cooperative programmes I think that at this point we employ up to 4 thousand Croatian defenders. The measure that is absolutely in expansion, we have so far spent more than 10 million kunas this year, namely 10.5 million kuna, but we also have a new measure to encourage cooperatives that do particularly well. Your question is excellent also because of the need to popularise this measure, but we are now in one phase when we can no longer be alone as a ministry, so when without support from here I will say trade chains that could place the products of Croatian defenses' associations to cities, municipalities, counties that can help to realize other important projects such as getting space, land, etc. So we can't do it alone. We had a cooperative fair this year in Vodice a few days ago, about 200 cooperatives were presented there from a total of 267 so far as it was established and worked. The main conclusions among other things and the round table held there is that it is necessary to look for ways to first and foremost unify cooperatives, i.e. a joint appearance on the market, but also to support the repeat from trade chains to all others who can place, for example, tourism that can place the products of Croatian defenders' cooperatives. So if I could also use this opportunity, invite for example large hotels, hotel complexes which, of course, need organically grown food, to report to try to unite, round cooperatives, try to place products, so fruits, vegetables and other products in tourist complexes, because I think that would be one maybe even a new brand, so in tourism that must look for quite certain new spaces. So in the morning collected, for example, peppers, tomatoes in one of the Croatian defenders' cooperatives that can be served at noon or at night in large hotels, hotel chains. Otherwise, I have to say, here's the fact that we participated in that fourth cooperative fair, about 200 cooperatives, or about 500 cooperatives. That the echo in the media was weak, almost nothing, so nobody was particularly interested in the media. The fact that defenders work, that defenders produce, that defenders export, that defenders join together, that they have excellent business results, obviously for no one in particular was news, is that when a defender has a problem which is bad when he has problems with himself, with his illness, I personally think that things should change that the Croatian public should be very interested in these successes of Croatian defenders. So, finally, we will have yet to complete another competition to support cooperatives that are particularly good at business and we will spend an additional 2.5 million kuna for this project by the end of the year, and I call on everyone who can help us, of course, to report to us and to get involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20049	Thank you. Mr. Culjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20050	Thanks for the answer. I'm the one who asked this question and asked for the affirmation of cooperativeism among the defense attorneys. I am convinced that your answer will encourage an even greater number of defenders to join in this commendable project of the ministry and in which the ministry is involved and assists defenders in the establishment and, of course, this is the best way our Croatian defenders can reintegrate into society through entrepreneurship, through the economy and show that they are useful to our society in the coming time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20051	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20052	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's my question to Mr. Shucker. Mr. Minister, you are probably aware that Croatia is in the latest report... European institutions for the fight against money laundering declared literally, I quote: "with dirty money, which is financed among other things by criminal organisations". [[You don't understand.]] No need to be surprised because we have smaller amounts, smaller financial transactions processing, checking, but millions of transactions are not controlled alive. That's why my question is very brief and very specific. Do you know, Mr. Minister, another country other than Croatia in Europe, in which it is possible to buy one port and that our institutions, such as the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which has been existing for 10 years, have not said a word about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20053	Thank you. Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20054	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And thank you, Madam Representative, for this question, because I think it's time that we both go before this House of Commons, and also in front of the Croatian public, we download something that is imaginaryly spoken, and we're not going to talk about concrete facts. First, it is simply not true that Manival rated the business of the Croatian Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. That's one thing. The second thing, you know well that under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, and also by the internal direction of the Minister of Finance in the Tax Administration, no traffic on real estate or the purchase of a larger movable property can be made in order not to verify the source of financing. And you say if you're buying an apartment or a house, you have to specify exactly where you're coming from and how the money's coming from, and now it's still a matter of tax reference if you suspect that you're looking into it. As far as other transactions are concerned, be assured, Madam MPs, that every transaction that the bank reports has refused in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether the money is on the outside or whether it is within the payment traffic of the Republic of Croatia, that the Office for the Prevention of Money is checking. If there is any indication that unclear transactions are therefore their findings, their knowledge shall be forwarded either to the Tax Administration or to the State Attorney's Office or to the MUP for further action. If you had taken a closer look at these things as justice minister in your term, then you would have seen how many such cases have come to these judicial parts that we as executive power cannot even interfere with. And what I'd also like to tell you, one upgrade to all of this is the final Law on Personal Identification. You didn't have the political power to pass one such law. And now there are some stories that won't work out the law. They want to make the law work with great sadness for those who are afraid of something. But this government had the political power to bring in an instrument that would network the IRS, which would clearly record the flow of money, and also acquire and sell real estate and will normally be able to ask every question, well from which funds you bought it, from which you sold it. However, I am personally saddened when you, as a parliamentary representative, speak publicly of a state institution without a single argument. If you have any knowledge, I ask you nicely as a resolution minister, to deliver it or to request information as a parliamentary representative in accordance with the Labour Act of the State Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Look, if you're saying buying is a port, no one checked. That's just not true. If the business bank submitted a report to the State Office for the Prevention of Money, they must have processed the case as they handled hundreds of cases. Now we have one question that's open, and that's an illegal transfer of money. However, it is quite different, and it belongs to a whole other sphere that some other institutions are dealing with. But I ask you nicely, don't if you respect your country, don't say that Croatia is a money launderer, that money can be laundered in Croatia, that I don't think anyone can afford it and give the right and such an assessment without argument. I'm asking you nicely not to do this, because you've already done it several times in your public appearances, and according to the law I can do, I'm simply going to prove that it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20055	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20056	Mr Minister, you should have done your protest to this distinguished European institution, and not to yell at me here what the MONEWOL report is, quote, "The MONEWOL report has declared Croatia a money launderer. He says that whoever can finance criminal organizations amongst other things." That's what the report says. The second thing I'm saying is, my question was so very specific, and that's not why you have to turn on me. I'm just asking you to check who owns it. Because there was a speech here with the most instance, and it seems to me that once the prime minister also told me that it could not be found out whether it was bought on the stock market or not. I'm asking you very specifically now. Who owns the port and who gave him the money for it? Zadar ports. So more ports are so sold obvious. I still want to remind you here, which is very important. The fight against corruption and organised crime does not begin at the Ministry of Justice, but at the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, it should also be seen what is the final report of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. I believe here that the vast majority, I don't know which promiscuity to find out which address is at all the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. And another thing that is most devastating, that citizens, in particular, who report critical statements to the businesses that pointed to corruption, have caused a tax administration reaction, have been financial inspections in their companies for several months, several years. Are you saying it's an accident?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20057	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20058	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Damir Polancec. Mr. Minister, Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has repeatedly said that in the privatisation process of our shipyards, he will not lose a single job. It even guaranteed representatives of this Parliament, so also to the Croatian public, with his reputation and his prime authority. But these days you, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, say the government will not be able to protect all jobs in Croatian shipbuilding. After that, you spread optimism, providing a projection of economic growth in Croatia in the following year, ranging from 3.8 to 4.5%. And Prime Minister Sanader only two days later, and this is what he reiterated here in the Croatian Parliament today, says we can be happy if that economic growth is modest two or two or two percent as the Croatian Prime Minister said with God's help. I ask you, who in this bidding the percentages of economic growth deceives the Croatian public and why? Based on which expert and scientific analysis, which the scientific institutions or institutions of the Croatian Government project economic work and economic policy in the following year. In other words, I would like to know who is responsible for the state and social situation of Croatian citizens? And not to forget, what kind of apology and justification will you give to smugglers and all the others who, because of your wandering in economic policy and political irresponsibility, will lose their jobs in privatising the circus?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20059	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Damir Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20060	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear parliamentary representative, privatization of Croatian shipyards is a tool, a tool for conducting the restructuring that is absolutely necessary in every Croatian shipyard. It is necessary because of the fact that for many years, when I say for many years, I do not think of the period in the last three, four years or since 2000, nor of the period from Croatian independence to the present but a whole long number of years, so even during the time of socialism, Croatian shipyards unfortunately did not operate profitablely and could only survive at a higher level of subsidies than their competing companies whose headquarters is located in other European Union countries. It is precisely because of this fact that we have to go into restructuring and we have decided, together with the European Commission, that this restructuring is best and most efficient through privatisation, which is only a tool in the restructuring process. The aim is to get into a situation where, with a lower level of support and forms of support that are acceptable to the European Union and to the European Commission, any of our Croatian shipyards can exist, they can operate. So we have to provide him with long-term survival. In this privatisation process, daily work is done and consults with social partners primarily unions, but of course we also talk to management of each individual company because this process is neither easy nor easy and especially when we spend it in such a time that is characterized by a major financial crisis, the lack of liquid assets on the European and world markets. So every day brings some new knowledge, some new information that we perceive and adapt our privatisation model. I am convinced of the success of privatisation and I am convinced of the success of restructuring Croatian shipyards and I am convinced of something else. That Croatian shipyards will have more employees than they have today over a period of 3.4 years from today, and that perhaps in a shipyard right after the privatisation itself, there will be a surplus that exists as a possibility. But in that case, together with the unions, the social partners will take care of such situations and worry. The projections of economic growth as I was saying about shipbuilding and now I have to say in the last 2, 3 weeks, so every day we receive some new analyses, some new information that we accept and build into our recommendations and our predictions. The Governor of the Croatian National Bank said that by means of a conservative methodology, it assesses the potential for economic growth at 2... After all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At one conference, I said that there are also very optimistic analyses, and I quoted what these optimistic analyses thus speak of the potential for economic growth. So it wasn't my arbitrary expectations, it was really something that was based on very optimistic scenarios that I had on the table the day before and studied. Reality is always somewhere between optimism and conservative approach. So reality isn't two or two figures that I've been up to but two and a half percent, which is the official position of the government. This has entered our forecasts and therefore we enter into the definition of our budget. With expectations of economic growth in 2009 up to 2 and a half percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20061	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20062	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government you were partially answering, so I would like you to answer the rest of the questions in writing, but instead of being lectured here with percentages of economic growth as was the case, I now stress the social crisis in Croatian society rather than financial ones. Not only financially, we in the Croatian Parliament have partially been financial crisis, and in your words we have been rehabilitating those who have something. Up to 50 thousand euros, not taking care of those who have nothing or very little. That's why I'm stressing. It's a social crisis, not just a financial crisis. I therefore warn and pray that the management of this crisis is used by the Croatian mind and Croatian science in the protection of national interests and that the government is not headed by the crisis, that the crisis is managed by the Government, but that Croatia manages the crisis in the interests of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20063	Thank you. Madam Representative Nadica Jelash will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20064	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, members and members of the government, fellow MPs and MPs. I'm asking Prime Minister Sanader. A few days ago, you showed your concern to the Croatian public by knowing that Croatia unfortunately did not bypass the global financial crisis even though you had assured us otherwise. And of course you immediately announced the austerity measures. Among other things, one rescue solution is the freezing of salaries to officials and tenants. It is clear that this move would give you a heavy blow to a large number of Croatian citizens. It's about more than 220 thousand workers, so cops, teachers, nurses, clerks, cooks, cleaning girls, not to count further whose salaries are already far below the national average. There is no doubt that this decision of yours under high inflation conditions, in which you are unfortunately much less effective than in tightening the belt to the citizens, will further impoverish this part of Croatian labour and turn their everyday survival battle into an impossible mission. Instead of taking measures to increase economic growth, and by doing so, the growth pays the citizens' standards, you hate what little they live in conditions where the cost of living is growing daily. My question, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, tell me as accurately as possible how a worker with a salary of three to three and a half thousand kuna will survive? How will he feed his family and educate his children if you freeze his salary in the coming years and the cost of life will continue to grow unsustainably?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20065	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20066	Madam representative, thank you for this question. Why do I thank you for this question? Because it's another opportunity to tell the truth unlike what you said. You were only talking about demagogical semi-information. I didn't convince the public so neither did you until a few days ago that everything would be great. Even more so, we warned all with whom we had spoken that we had to prepare well, and that is what our works bear witness. You yourself voted in favour of what I have already stated several times this morning, which is that we guarantee Croatian savings with 100,000 to the guaranteed amount of $400,000. These are concrete measures. When you talk about wages, I'm glad you became socially sensitive because in the last term, or the previous government where you were reduced wages, you didn't freeze, you cut 20%. It is so much about social sensitivity, all in Croatia cut 20% of the salary. It wasn't that long ago. We all remember that well. After that, the courts annulled those decisions of yours and this government, or these taxpayers, in the term of office of this government, had to pay for cutting people off from what they lived on. Not that we haven't cut our wages, but we're raising them 6% in three years. That's the difference between you and us. And today when we propose not to freeze wages, but when we propose a one-year delay, we immediately offer another agreement for 2. That's what we're gonna do this afternoon and what we've been talking to the unions these days. It's a socially sensitive policy, so don't be in demagogy about how he's going to survive this one or that one. Ask yourself how the survivors were when you took down 20% of their salaries, not frozen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20067	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20068	We, Mr. Prime Minister, have not become socially sensitive, we fall socially sensitive, and it is true that we have reduced the salaries of civil servants and it has not been good and we have paid it by losing power, but you are repeating a mistake, and that is much worse. It is important to stress that we then reduced our salaries primarily to ourselves, therefore to government members and MPs, in order to expand our space for economic growth and we then achieved economic growth, which was the largest of the transition countries, on average over 5%. Where's your growth? There's only inflation. We are now and today, so for the reduction of salaries to both ministers and state secretaries to reduce and pay MPs and pensions to MPs, just don't touch workers' salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20069	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic will ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20070	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Mr Jandrokovic. Mr. Minister, in two days, it will be 13 years from the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, an agreement that stopped the war, and that's his good side. The realisation of Dayton, and through a crawling revision, has put the national rights of the Croatian people at risk because it is the fewth in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the absolute domination of one nation in a space called Republika Srpska and the revote of other people's political representatives in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there has been no parity and consensus in decision-making for a long time, and this is the case with parliaments at all levels, and unfortunately the Constitutional Court. Except for the fact that the position of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not good. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not well on its European path. It reaches consciousness in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in the international community, that new and better solutions should be sought in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My question to you is what are the views and contributions of the Republic of Croatia in the context of the need to regain attention and stronger engagement of the International Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what are we witnessing these days?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20071	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20072	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, I thank you for the question, and I would like to point out at first that Croatia is very closely following everything that is going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we have clearly stated in our foreign and political priorities that, in addition to joining the European Union and NATO, we want as much as possible, the stronger the role of the Republic of Croatia in the area of Southeast Europe, and of course we are following with special care exactly what is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is a country that is neighbouring, because it is the country with which we have the longest border and of course, because it is a country where representatives of the Croatian people live. I also want to tell you that the attention of the international community, which is currently again focused on Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that this Croatian government and Croatian diplomacy also has great merit, because it is using every opportunity to talk to our partners from the United States through our partners in NATO alliances, from the European Union exactly about Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we have been insisting over the past few months, and we are asking that the focus of the International Community be restored to Bosnia and Herzegovina. It seems to me that we have succeeded, it seems to me that the International Community is again very closely following what is happening in that neighbouring country, and we will move on. We'll insist on four principles. These are the four principles on which Croatia's foreign policy rests towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is primarily the territorial integrity and integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second equality of all three constituent nations, the third functioning institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the fourth, the Euro-Atlantic perspective of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would especially like to highlight this second element concerning the equality of all three constituent nations. It is not good and enough that this equality is guaranteed only on paper. It must be both real and on the one hand we see trends that call ultimately perhaps for some new division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, we see the tendencies of the largest people who are trying to dominate, especially the Croats in the Federation, and we find these tendencies unacceptable and we constantly talk about them to representatives of the international community and our partners. The Croats are the smallest people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the Constitution has guaranteed them the same rights as the other two constituent nations, and they should insist on that. Not only paper, not only in documents, but also in reality and all future solutions that will be addressed must be taken into account. We believe that in future solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the three constituent nations need to agree that those who can find solutions that are good and functional for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but if there is a solution that will not satisfy one of the constituent peoples, then both Bosnia and Herzegovina is at stake, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is like one table that rests on three legs and if one of these legs does not work, if it is broken, if it falls off, then Bosnia and Herzegovina is as it is not. It is our firm interest that Bosnia and Herzegovina remain as it is, that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina feel at home, as in their home, as in the same legal people, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is going firmly in the direction of Euro-Atlantic integration. We support therefore and with our knowledge, with experience we help our Bosnian Herzegovina partners and we believe that ultimately we will all have success on this road together. We will continue with this policy and I believe that ultimately it will be positive and good for both Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I am stressing again, and for the Croats who live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20073	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20074	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your answer. I am pleased with the answer, and I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia once again for all the good it does for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20075	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Vesna Buterin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20076	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Damir Polancec. Dear Minister, as I come from Rijeka, I will ask you a question that is extremely important for the citizens of Rijeka, but not only for the people of Rijeka, but also for the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County. The 3 May shipyard employs about 4.5 thousand people, which means that about 12,000 people in Rijeka and the surrounding area depend directly on the Shipyard on May 3rd. Also, I would like to stress that the Rijeka economy, and especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, depend largely on May 3rd. Since a new three-member administration was recently elected at the Shipyard on May 3rd, can you please answer how pleased you were with the work of the former administration, what do you expect from the new administration and in light of the circumstances in the context of the future of the Shipyard on May 3rd? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20077	Thank you. Mr. Polancec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20078	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, I thank you for this question. As you said yourself, the size and significance of May 3rd is, I could say, crossing the border of the Primorje-Gorski County and the city of Rijeka. Of course, May 3rd is of exceptional importance for all Croatian economies. On May 3rd, unfortunately with inadequate work and access above all management, it was brought into a situation that the book of order was empty on May 3rd, or we can still say it is empty. Of course that shouldn't have happened. It was precisely the basic reason for launching the procedure of changing management and looking for new, better solutions to the Employment Council and trade union initiative, and I must say that I had already had all relevant information. We're in that direction and we're on our way. Changes in management have happened in the way that I think is right, in a way that we choose a man to trust to run the company in the next period and give him the opportunity to propose his own team with which he will perform the 3rd of May on a better path. That's how it's done. Since the situation is burdensome in May 3rd, we felt that it was best to choose the man who knows the situation best and comes from the company itself and therefore we trusted Mr. Zeljko Starčević. When I say do you trust, then I must say that this is, of course, in line with all the members of the Supervisory Board, with all the unions operating in May 3rd and with the Labour Council. Mr. Starcevic has proposed a team of people to continue to lead the Brodyard on 3 May d.o.o. and the stock company, or holding company. We accepted his suggestions and I believe that it is people who know the situation very well in the company itself and can change the situation with our help. I am also pleased with the fact that the Economic and Social Council of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County discussed the issue and agreed with our position and supported the new administration. They are tasked with providing with our help under the number 1st liquidity of the shipyard until the privatisation process is completed, and under number 2 to finally contract new ships. And I'm going to say one more time, it was an inappropriate statement by some members of the former administration that it's for privatisation and it's better if the order book is empty. Of course it's not, of course it's unacceptable to interpret and reject it. We believe that Mr. Starcevic, with our help, will be able to complete the negotiations very soon, arrange new ships, and we will make sure to provide him with the liquidity on 3 May and thus give him a chance to secure his way into privatisation, and after privatisation, I am convinced of the better days of this shipbuilding industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20079	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Buterin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20080	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am pleased with your response, but I am also convinced that your response will satisfy the workers in May 3rd, as well as citizens of the town of Rijeka Primorje-Gorski Kotar County.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20081	Thank you. It's Mr. MP Vedran Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20082	I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Milinovic. Have the current waiting lists for diagnostic tests and other agreed medical care facilities decreased, i.e. what are the results of the package of measures to reduce the waiting list brought by the Ministry of Health and Social Care?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20083	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20084	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the MP for asking. I've said it a hundred times, and I'm going to say it again, that I don't agree as a minister of health and social care to this perception of corruption in the health system. And I invited all health care professionals, them or us 70,000, but all the other political parties, to fight that kind of perception because I believe that real perception in the health system isn't what perception is. Then we analyzed at the Ministry of Health why the perception of corruption is like that in the health system, and we said, we came to the conclusion that exactly the long waiting lists are one space that gives such perception of corruption in the health system. So when I resisted me a month and a half ago on an "Open" show and told me why the Ministry of Health is setting up an office for the national waiting list and why it has to be in the Ministry of Health. So here's what I'm using this opportunity to say now a few words about what we've done in this month and a half about it. Tomorrow, I think tomorrow at 9:00 I'm opening a central central ordering unit in the I'm going to say that to a third of the health care unit in Croatia, it's at the Clinical Hospital Center of Rebro and Zagreb. The Office for National Waiting Lists at the Ministry of Health in these months and a half has personally called 2 thousand 130 patients and directed either to other institutions or given them an exact term, name and last name, the exact clock and the exact name and last name of the doctor or nurse to whom they must contact. So far, such central units have already been formed in Split, Slavonski Brod, Sisters of Mercy, KB Dubrava, tomorrow they will be in the Clinical Hospital Center of Zagreb. What did we get? I said by New Year's Eve, we'd even cancel some waiting lists. And what we got, here's what I'm going to say. The thousands and 200 patients who were waiting for the knee surgery are now waiting for 750. In the river for stent waiting for 850 people now waiting for them 400, we cut by 50%. For the CT and magnet where they waited six months now to wait a month. The Split Clinical Hospital Centre has solved 3 thousand 284 patients who were on waiting lists. At Zadar General Hospital, we cut the waiting lists for the magnet in a month. The General Hospital of Vukovar with the introduction of shift work and that was my message to the directors, break through the limits because it is also a proposal for reforming the health system and proof that we have been doing the reform for the past eight months. There's no waiting for a CT in Vukovar anymore. The clinic Dubrava has reduced waiting lists by 20% and the General Hospital Holy Spirit has reduced the waiting list for the endoprothesis of hips by opening additional capacities and shifting work. We did it all in a month and a half to two. I also announce a further sharp struggle with large waiting lists because it is the only way we will restore trust in Croatian health and reduce the perception of corruption. And once again, I don't admit that corruption in the health system is what perception is. This is the best example of how and how to fight it. And the best example that the health system reform has lasted these eight months and this proposal where we have received extraordinary suggestions and our coalition partners that we will calculate in this proposal is another step forward patient in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20085	Thank you. Mr. Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20086	I thank the Minister for this answer. I believe that this reform will succeed because only in this way as you explain to the public I believe that this health reform will succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20087	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20088	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to ask the vice-presidents of the government and the minister of the family, the defenders and the intergenerational solidarity of Mrs. Kosor. Madam Vice President, you held a campaign in the Council of Europe in June this year against physical abuse, physical abuse of children. We could all see that this campaign was very successful, noticeable. Here, my question to you would be whether this same campaign, or national campaign, will you spend in the Republic of Croatia and if we can expect it when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20089	Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20090	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Madam Representative. Here, I could answer your question in one sentence. Yes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will launch its own national campaign to fight the physical abuse of children within a few days through the programmes of the Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. As you pointed out yourself in June is in Zagreb, and I think I can say that we have had and that we have been given as a member of the Council of Europe the honor to do so in Croatia, so a campaign has been launched in cooperation with the Council of Europe, a Council of Europe campaign against physical abuse of children, and we have then decided on our own campaign based on good experiences in the campaign against violence against women, so domestic violence and violence against women. It was also a Council of Europe campaign for which Croatia had its own campaign and gave excellent results. So here we go in a few days. Tomorrow November 20 is marked as the day that we record, or which we link to the signing of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And here, very quickly we're starting our own campaign. It will, of course, be a special and small ceremony. I am only now not going to reveal everything that will be a national campaign but I can say that it will be a solemn presentation, that all those who have something to say in general about child welfare in the Republic of Croatia will be invited to this solemn presentation and that it will be comprehensive. It will also be conducted locally but primarily through our family centers, since we have established family centers that must, of course, promote all that is good for children. We will, of course, remind ourselves of the fact that Croatia is among the few countries that have fully through the laws from the Penal Code to the Family Law prohibiting physical or any other punishment of children, but the laws are one and the practice is another. So let's go to a wide public awareness of how bad it is and how harmful it would be. He has just completed a tender for the production of posters, campaign logos, pencils, promotional material that we will also share. We also expect media support in this regard. And here, I think it will be another campaign in cooperation with the Council of Europe that will be noticed. We will try to include all celebrities in Croatia as we are in the campaign to fight violence against women. Of course, I'm asking you MPs and MPs to join in and help with that campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20091	Thank you. Mrs. Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20092	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and Minister Kosor. In any case, here I am truly very pleased with your response, but at the same time not only to us personally who are involved in the work of the Croatian Parliament but also to the units of local self-government, as well as to the regional authorities, so that we are strongly involved in this campaign in order to achieve the best possible results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20093	Thank you. It is up to representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20094	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Minister Primorac, in Novska, where one 14-year-old daily harassed another and extorted money from him, and on November 3rd, physically attacked him in the classroom asking for 15 kn. He threatened him with a baseball bat then. A few days after that, a 9-year-old in Visevac was hit by a classmate with a leg in his stomach with threats of killing him. It's not the first time. That bully threatened and strangled the victim before. The next day in Metkovic, in his class, he cut two students with a 12-year-old knife. I'm not gonna pick up any more. These cases only happened in one week. But every day there are many children in schools. I repeat in schools not on the street, not in dark parks, but in schools of victims of violence of my peers and you do not react in any way. Because ministers, sending in inspections and questioning what happened is not an adequate reaction, and at least the necessary prevention. Namely, we don't have preventive programs. There aren't enough psychologists and educators in schools. A programme to prevent violence between children and young people has been a dead letter on paper for years, and there is no such thing as raising peace and non-violence for democracy. However, in that same week when these cases that I mention occurred, you raised your hand in the Government to decide on the redistribution of the funds planned in the state budget for this year, after which you reduced the funds to prevent school violence by a third. Not symbolic, but for a third. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, if you are aware of your own responsibilities for increasing violence among young people in schools. Are you aware that every attacked student and student is actually proof of your incompetence and proof that you are not doing your job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20095	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20096	Thank you very much, Miss Representative, thank you very much for your interest in the education system. I appreciate it very much. As far as violence is concerned, you are absolutely right that there is a certain increase in violence and I will briefly answer what measures are. It is clear to each of us who sits here or who follows this program that violence is also related to the family, to education and it is clear that school as an institution of education is one in a series that helps children to go through a period of life of education or education. If you look at our documents, and you are already familiar with them, because some of the strongest people who create the education strategy are and your former professors participated in the construction of these documents where the key component is precisely a component of education that has never been in Croatian schools. The Ministry will also confirm this to you, and Mr. Semlac, in the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, has made an extremely large step, and this is that he does not allow children any more after the problems you have cited simply abandoning school. Because if that kid leaves school, the street ties him up and the street runs that kid. As for the measures we have taken at this time, I can tell you that there is finally no school in the Republic of Croatia, no elementary school, no high school that has no least teaching or psychologist. When I became a minister, then it was an art to find a school that had one, another or even a defector. The Croatian Government in five years and I want to say this very clearly has made the biggest employment in this entire vertical system of education and education. That's exactly 9200 people in primary, middle and high education. That's true. It is also true that at least 5 Croatian counties are systematically implementing measures to prevent violence. So preventive, not curative. I'll tell you one more piece of information that we're extremely pushing. At the moment five years ago, when I became Minister of Science, Education and Sports, about 100,000 children were involved in sports. Today through the Croatian School Sports Union, which is also one of the civilization's steps in the fight against violence, that children spend their negative energy is involved almost 400,000 children today in the Republic of Croatia. Besides, I want to make it very clear. One of the priorities that this Croatian government has made, but also with cities and counties, is the agreement to set up and security cameras around schools, because you know that we have allocated funds to the next budget so that schools are also lit, we have security cameras, and you know that this project is being launched and that it is now in the stage of the competition. So the minister can't run away from responsibility. You can't run from responsibility either. No one in Croatia can run away from responsibility, because if one child is unhappy, that is the problem for all of us. And what I can tell you is that tolerance to violence no matter who I came from, while I'm the minister will be zero. If an individual case happens, then you can't expect the minister to react for each one. There's also a teacher, there's a parent, there's a school principal, there's local self-government units and what's most important. Today, violence in Croatia is condemned by absolutely everyone. There was violence in both your and my time. It wasn't so media-accompanied, it wasn't so much known for him. But today, at this point, a decision has been made that we want schools to be completely free from any form of violence. What I can also say as a minister, here the Secretary of State that there is no case in the Republic of Croatia that any incident has happened that no educational inspection has come out and asked for responsibility. If the school was responsible, it was either the teacher or the principal. On the other hand, if the responsible parent responds to parents. In several cases, criminal charges have been filed, and in dozens of cases reports have been broken. As a minister, I advocate respect for the rule of law, and that will be while I'm a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20097	Thank you. Mrs. Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20098	Ministers deny you reality. After the law was passed yesterday, 25 children from Lucko ended up in the hospital because someone sprayed tear gas one of their classmates at school. Two weeks ago, two minors were beaten in front of an industrial-roat school. The next day at that same school for a school vacation of three students... Last week, in Zagreb, three six men attacked an eight-year-old with a metal rod of umbrellas. [[/Conversation off, you can't hear.]] In Andrijasevci, on November 4th, 16-year-old Josip Klasnic was buried who died of an attack by a group of minors from his school. All of these are cases that occurred in the first 15 days of this month, not in a year, in 15 days of one month. So I'm asking you, I'm not happy with your answer because you simply didn't answer me. I would like an additional written answer with a concrete list of measures plus your opinion on whether you think that in the European Union education ministers would still be ministers if they were to have violence at school, in the classroom, so not in general among young people. And here I hope that your answer will not cause a new conflict after this week and last week with Prime Minister Sanader, this time with Vice President Kosor since she spoke much more and less about the Youth Prevention Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20099	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20100	Dear President of the Parliament, members of the government. I'd like a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. As Croatia finally moves into the reconstruction, that is, the restructuring of the shipbuilding into which tens of billions of kunas have been invested, and yet the debts have continued to grow so that somewhere now they have risen to 8.5 billion kuna to banks. Otherwise, the government took over the shipbuilding obligation from 2001, meaning 7 years ago when it signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, when relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union were first established. Today, we are certainly in a difficult situation as regards the whole of the reconstruction and the whole situation, because this is one of our main criteria in the accession negotiations for the opening of the competition chapter. My question would be most likely to be carried out in shipbuilding by refurbishing the shipbuilding site so that under such conditions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can affect the disposal of certain traffickings, means winding down, given the European Commission's request to reduce the current capacity of the shipyard where up to 40% can be read and how it will then be taken care of precisely those workers who would have to lose their jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20101	Thank you. The answer will be given by Mr. Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. MP. So I would start with our precise conclusion that the obligation to restructure Croatian shipyards is an obligation stemming from the 2001 signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This is an obligation, among other things, in negotiation chapter 8, so if we want to conclude negotiations with the European Union, we need to restructure our shipyards, or privatise them by the end of the negotiations, and we hope that we will be successful in the negotiations and end it by autumn 2009. These are our obligations, and we, as a serious state, must also carry out our obligations. However, it is not only necessary to invoke the obligations arising from our acts that we have signed with the European Union. The restructuring obligation comes from a series of figures and indicators which I will mention here again, some of the most important and now. The obligation stems from the fact that a total of 44 billion kuna guarantees have been given to shipyards in 2000. The obligation stems from the fact that shipyards received 2.8 billion kuna of direct state subsidies during that period, that twice the shipbuilding site was rescheduled, and in these two rescue attempts additionally was invested from the state budget of 5.8 billion kuna. Therefore, because of these figures and because of the fact that today we have to think about taking over part of the shipbuilding obligation, and perhaps even 8 billion kuna, we come up with 17 billion kunas of total, hence incentives or subsidies from these figures resulting in the fact that we have to restructure. We'll do it, we'll take it through privatisation and in that privatisation we want to keep as much capacity as possible. Since shipyards have received, therefore, state support above the average support in the European Union countries, compensation measures are also required from us, primarily by cutting capacity, but nowhere is it specified that it must be as you have now said and in public it is often heard 40%. The fact is that we are referred to, for example, the restructuring of the eastern German shipbuilding that cut the capacity by 40% in the restructuring process. I believe we have an argument that this capacity-cutting thing is less than what you've said. I also believe that there is an interest that through privatisation we can be successful in restructuring, I believe that through privatisation we can also implement that all employees remain in these companies, and where there is a surplus after that, the surplus can be taken care of through the programme and we know by which Croatian laws and how the provision of any surplus is implemented and we know that this is possible only with a very active role of the union, the working council and, of course, the Croatian Employment Service which will certainly play their part if this happens and if it is necessary and necessary. I believe in future and successful privatisation, or restructuring through privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20103	Thank you. Mr. Kunst, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20104	I can only wish a lot of success in the privatisation negotiations in the course of privatisation, that as many people as possible remain to work and as few people as possible who will be exposed to the need to use Croatian laws regarding the resolution of extra people. I think with this question and finally it's going to be a question and it's going to be asked and it's going to be for those people who are waiting for their fate to be tied to that shipyard. I say I wish you a lot of success and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have seven more questions. If we all cut our questions and answers a little bit, maybe we'll be done by 2:00. Here you go, Mr. Ivo Grbic. He'll ask you a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20106	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected vice presidents, vice presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to refer the question to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Shimonovic. Mr. Ministers announces rigorous savings, as well as the rationalisation of costs at all national levels, as well as the entire society. In your opinion, how will this affect the speed of implementation of the judicial reform?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20107	Mr. Minister Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20108	Thank you very much for this question. This is indeed a serious problem, judicial reform is an expensive venture even when it comes to something that will lead to savings in the long term. For a short period of time, there should be costs to lead to savings. We say now that we're reducing the network of courts, we're bringing them together in a functional sense, but we still can't connect them physically because it requires investments, new spatial capacities, etc. We also have major problems about the prison system where about 50% of the accommodation capacity is overbooked for prisoners, which is then, of course, reflected in the situation in penitentiary and prisons. On top of that, I don't think we're gonna be able to let the financial reasons be those that make it impossible to reform the judiciary, if we want to finish negotiations on Chapter 23. Justice and human rights. I can also suggest that this leap package, in terms of setting up jumpsuits, will mean some additional costs, how we will solve as much as we can within the framework of the Ministry of Justice itself, if not the rebalancing within the Government, and if necessary, we will also address the Assembly for Aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20109	Thank you. I thank Minister Shimonovic for accepting this suggestion of my short-term response. That's what we expect from others. Mr. Ivo Grbic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20110	I thank you for your answer. Despite the problems pointed out by Mr. Minister, I am sure the government will find out, solve and very quickly implement judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20111	Thank you. It's Mr. Zivko Nenadić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20112	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. By my question, I refer to the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti. It reads, with a very short explanation, when more intensive work will continue to build planned missing stakes on the so-called so-called. Split's bypass, a 203m-euro project financed by the 60m-euro loan from the European Investment Bank, which was approved by the Parliament here in its own time. In fact, about 400 thousand inhabitants around Split and the nearest hinterland are around their lives, and of course not all of them are used daily by these roads. I'm not asking this question so that we who live downstairs would be more comfortable daily, but primarily for summer, for tourism, because then it's really a collapse and it's really from life, and I'd say the economic interest of that Split bypass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20113	Thank you. Mr. Kalmeta, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20114	Thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Representative. We all agree with you, clearly that the reconstruction and construction of the road is practically from Trogir to Omis is important and important and because of the people living downstairs, but especially in summer when it is practically impossible to pass from Split via Omis to Makarska. It is, it travels a few miles a day and sometimes more. In this sense, this activity and the reconstruction of the road from Plano was also launched and practically to Omis. And it's divided into several stages, into several shares. The first part is Plano-Kaštel Sucurac, then Stobrech-Long War and eventually the Long War to Omis. This entire section is also built in phases and each phase is located in a certain degree or preparation or construction, and one section is completed, from Kaštel Sucurca to St. Yurya, to the Stolin, which is 4.2 kilometers long. Therefore, on all the shares, from Plan to Kaštel Sucurca, from Stobrec to Long War, from Long War to Omis, the activities are, somewhere they bought land, the works started somewhere, but as soon as possible, in the next two years the project should be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20115	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20116	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I thank you and the Croatian Government that despite certain financial difficulties you will not allow us to cut the branch on which we are sitting. It is a tourist branch that is still well green and which still gives much more than it takes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20117	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Josip Djakic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20118	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Vice President, Your Honor. My question was addressed to the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Branko Vukelic. Since we have seen and had the opportunity in recent days to see that voluntary military service has started for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, what was the interest in voluntary service, as the project is under way, what are the plans of the Ministry of Defence on voluntary service in the following year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20119	Answer, Mr. Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20120	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen. So these questions are really current, respected and respected parliamentary MPs because, just in the course of the first service, voluntary military service in Croatia is the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament which suspended compulsory military service from the beginning of this year, introduced voluntarily. And that's how we actually circled the cycle of professionalization of our army. So we have a voluntary departure for the Croatian soldier's profession, we have a voluntary military service, we have future and voluntary contractual reserves, so it all comes down to volunteering and professionalism. What I can say about volunteers and this first group of 250 who are in the military in Požega, I am particularly pleased with the report of young people to volunteer for military service. In fact, we had a thousand 280 candidates, voluntary military service, of which 156 women. This year we are going practically with one first service that should be somehow behind us, in the Ministry and Armed Forces, but also for the voluntary handbooks trial, test service of the military period where we will see and program and all other conditions how we have succeeded and what conditions we create. It should be said that it lasts, so voluntary military service, 14 weeks, 6 weeks in Požega and the other 8 weeks in the Gashinci, that the fee for voluntary handbooks is 2660 kuna, that after this 250 this year we are going to a new cycle next year that will be in two times, in the spring and in the autumn with 400 voluntary handbooks. So, 400 in the spring and 400 in the fall, and I believe that this will give us a serious number of voluntary handbooks that will increase to the target size of up to 2,000 voluntary handbooks per year in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20121	Thank you. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20122	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for the specific answer. I hope that this project will be adapted to perfection and that the Republic of Croatia will indeed have the most voluntary service in this part of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20123	Thank you very much for shortening the questions and answers. It's Mr. Boro Grubisic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20124	Your Honor. I ask the question to the president of the Croatian government, Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. We are all aware that the global financial crisis is, therefore, an extraordinary factor that has also affected the situation in the Republic of Croatia. It is clearly a crisis of liberal capitalism and the rule of profit over man. That's one thing. The other thing is domestic, to say our Croatian, our Croatian failures, our mistakes, and the suspects would sometimes be said to be a convenient and criminal operation structure at all levels. When I talk about it, then I'm talking about the HIPO bank, the debt of the HIPO bank, damages, so... Well, Bechtel, I don't want to go any further because I don't have much time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these fire measures are expressed as some kind of new deal, etc. I'm afraid that in fact some kind of imposition on the citizens to manage to bring back millions of euros that we actually made to someone's mistakes, they realized someone's failures. In all this, when we look at the fiscal and economic results of our 5 Slavonsko-Baranja counties, then we see that before this crisis and the county in this fiscal sense and economically lagging behind. Now that the restrictions are coming, when what you say about public works, about works on infrastructure although the Pelješki bridge remains in your words, right, my God, how will such a financial crisis be reflected, such a stalemate in public works in the development of infrastructure in these 5 Slavonian counties of which are four per fiscal place by capacity in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20125	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20126	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, for your question. We will, as we have so far, lead a policy of even development in Croatia. In other words, both five Slavonian counties and all other Croatian counties are top priority. We do not have the right nor do we have the right to prefer anyone, any Croatian region, any Croatian county at the expense of another. Therefore, regardless of this severe crisis, I am going immediately to respond to what you finally set up after the opening part, which is that all infrastructure works in these 5 Slavonian counties are moving on. First of all, I'm going to visit a very high degree of gasification. Second, the construction of the Slavonics highway, which will be completed by spring by the time this Djakovo-Osjek section, means in a month. And after that, he's moving on to the White Manastir. Channel Danube-Sava, a channel we talked about, of course, that under these circumstances we can't invest as much as we could have different circumstances in that channel. I don't want to talk any further about the power system. Here I was at the opening ceremony of the work on this Ernestino-Pechchov power line. Croatia will do its part to the border, and Hungary from Pecuh to the border of Croatia. The irrigation project therefore all these infrastructure projects have a strong foothold and in the budget that will be proposed to the Croatian Parliament in a day or ten days. So, both Slavonia, and Dalmatia, and Zagorje, and Međimurje, and Istria, and that I do not list all Croatian parts of Lika, etc., all Croatian regions, all Croatian counties will be equally represented in this budget. And we'll try to make that budget happen. You mentioned some infrastructure business. The Peles Bridge, some others. It is likely that I also said there in these infrastructure works that must go further, perhaps in 2009 there is less money than was planned. It means the construction can be expanded. Some other infrastructure jobs will not be financed by state money, but will go to concessions. I was already talking about "Airport" Zagreb, which would come between 230m and 250m euros at some assessment of the resolution ministry. Why finance this with state money if we can call an international public tender for concession and that the concessionaire brings his money and invests his 250m euros in Croatia, which means in Croatian companies in co-operatives, in workers, in products that will be there, etc. So that's one whole series of measures. I am sure that this is all I am telling you today, that in a month I will be able to say something more, because together with everyone else and with this Advisory Committee that we will form these days and to whom we call leading economic experts from Croatia, that both the Government and the social partners will be at hand to think together what else we are doing. But since you've specificized your question specifically to these Slavonian counties, you have my word, all these projects that I've been talking about and you and I are moving on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20127	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20128	I can't be satisfied with the answer... Although it was exhausted, because Mr. Prime Minister is talking about the equidistence of the development of all counties in the Republic of Croatia, and the data fiscally I have here, and I'm going to give the Prime Minister later to see, they're talking about the fact that 4 Slavonian counties are really except Osijek-Baranja's last at fiscal capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there's such equality still, God forbid. Next thing you know, it's not a waste of money. So we have a direct example here from the Ministry of Economy where 8 million kuna is invested in the small-scale economy of the municipality of Sibinj, and it's actually, in some ways, 80% privatized. So there is a waste of money and more likely thanks to measures that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior will take to such matters, I hope that something will be saved so that Slavonia too will move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20129	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20130	Your Honor, Mr. President. Question for Deputy Prime Minister Polancec. Mr. Vice President, until recently, you were proud of the model of public private partnership in Sunny Hvar, and so far you have presented it as a very positive example and now it all looks like a map tower even though you have publicly claimed that Croatian ownership is 50%, as the strategic partner has provided money for investment in buildings, it is now clear that it is not. FINA's report, two months ago, speaks of a duty ten times the allowable one and is stressed in the report that the company is on the verge of a breakdown. The agreement between the government and the Orco group, the Croatian public has never been introduced, the town of Hvar has never received a 25% promise plus one share, the workers have not received 5% but are therefore announced their cancellations. I ask you whether the Croatian government is even an equal partner in Sunny Hvar or whether the "Orco" group has become the majority owner. Say it here publicly today, has it been hidden in front of the Croatian public so far? If this is the case, who is responsible for bringing this company to a break-up and sale and for misleading the Croatian public, and do you feel that you are the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of any responsibility for this situation and that you will withdraw the consequences if this is true?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20131	Thank you. Mr. Damir Polancec Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20132	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Parliamentary Representative, the company Orco has been selected in an international tender as the best potential therefore strategic partner for the establishment of a public private partnership in the company "Suncani Hvar". The obligations of the company "Orco" were, above all, to carry out such necessary recapitalisation and so much necessary investment with the aim of raising the quality of service in the facilities of Sunny Hvar. We've signed a contract to hand over the management of the company, the management of the company to whoever's dealing with it, whose business it is, so the Orco to the group. Also, their obligation was not to fire workers and at the moment of privatisation if I am not mistaken "Sunishani Hvar" had 310 or 320 employees. What has been done in this period to this day? With the fact that I have to mention our public private partnership contract lasts until half of 2010. A valuable recapitalisation of 200 million kunas has been carried out. In total, therefore, it was invested through recapitalisations and through loans over 450 million in a total of nine facilities of the company "Suncani Hvar". From 310 employees, the number of employees rose to 430 employees. The fact is, at this point, the company is having liquidity problems, and I'm not gonna argue with that. Why did that happen? Therefore, the costs of last year's restructuring and, above all, the costs of much higher and higher salaries, in the last year the salaries were significantly increased, should have been financed in the capital market by new shares. Given the situation in the stock market, it is quite clear that this and such recapitalisation cannot be carried out and therefore at the moment the company "Suncani Hvar" has therefore liquid problems, liquidity problems. But once again I will say, from 310 employees to 430 employees with a sensitive salary increase of over 50% in the last three years with investments made in a total of nine company facilities and with the fact that today the material property of the company is over 800 million kuna. And that's also the result of the work and partnership with the Orco group. And as we have been partners so far, we must be partners in finding solutions to these liquidity problems, and I believe that we will solve these problems together and solve them. Yes, the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision to transfer 25% of shares to the town of Hvar given the fact that the city has certain property-law disputes with the company itself but therefore fulfil certain conditions by the city of Hvar. When these conditions are met we are therefore ready to implement our decision in action. I've been repeating this since day one, since the day of that decision, I can do it again today. The moment the conditions are met, we can implement that decision. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, that the company "Suncani Hvar" has problems, problems with liquidity as well as many other companies in the tourist sector or in the real sector today in Croatia, and that is the consequence, there is also a "Orco" of course as a company that is naturally registered in Luxembourg works in all countries of Western and central Europe and in all countries is having the same problems because of the fact that it is seriously affected by the financial crisis which is therefore plowing from the American market to European. These problems, as we have always known to solve together, I believe that we will solve in the coming period for the benefit of employees. And in the end, I have to say that at this point, a certain survey is being conducted but that the possible disposal of extra people through stimulating severances can only be carried out in people who have or are very close to obtaining the conditions for retirement and that is something that we have agreed with our partners' unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20133	Thank you. Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20134	Mr. Vice President, I asked you a very simple question in which a mere school every student would understand it well. Is the Croatian government still an equal partner, whether it allowed the Orco group to become a majority partner because the paper says 50% is the owner and you guaranteed that you will be the majority owner. Why there are five members from the Orco group on the Supervisory Board and only one from the Croatian government, one from the union. And the one from the Croatian government, i.e. He resigned from the Privatisation Fund and the one before the government's representative resigned. In your written reply, you wrote to me that the Croatian Government does not feel a bit guilty about the financial situation because it is the management and the supervisory board. But if you are the majority owner, i.e. If we are, you are only representing this country, then the majority owner decided who will be in the board of directors, supervisors and in the company's administration. You really, this sounds ironic what you're saying. I know you're obviously trying to get out of this situation but just answer me because it's a big deal. The FINA report says ten times more in charge than the law allows. The company's all over the place in a catastrophic situation. Who will answer because these people will be put into that situation if the company is sold out and someone gets rich? At this point Orco is selling its representations around the world, Budapest, etc. You know it better than I do. Why don't you just answer the simple question. Not that I'm not satisfied with the question, but this is again hiding the truth from the Croatian public. We don't want anything else, just tell me what's really going on out there. ... You didn't say anything. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20135	Thank you. You've spent what time others have saved. Let's move on. It's Ms. Nevenka Marinovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20136	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I refer the question to Minister Bozidar Calmeta. We know that the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport has introduced a market approach to public shipping and concessions for shipping lines. We also know that the established Agency for Coastal, Linear Maritime Transport does all the work related to the award of concessions for public transport both on state shipping, high-speed and ferry lines. Since the high-speed lines have already been concessioned, my question is, when will the award of concessions on ferry and classic shipping lines be opened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20137	Thank you. Minister Calmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20138	Here's a very short one. These days, the Government will decide on the determination of state-owned lines in public transport and in line coastal transport and the amendments and additions to the Regulation on terms and procedure for granting concessions, and after that will be called for the concession of these ferry lines. I predict and predict that those boaters who win the contests could be introduced to sailing sometime at the 9th month next year. So right after the new year, the contest will be opened until the full procedure is complete. Somewhere after the summer will start and drive all those who get concessions on ferry lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20139	Thank you. Mrs. Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20140	Here I am satisfied with the answer and... /The speech room is off. /... away, I know that all these measures that are in preparation will make our islands more accessible and reduce the depopulation of islanders but certainly also improve the standard of transportation and islanders and tourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20141	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-bonacci as last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20142	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking Mrs. Secretary Jadranki Kosor. The town of Ploce launched the "Help in the House" programme on its own cost, helping older and powerless people. On two occasions, they asked the Ministry of Family, Defence, intergenerational solidarity to grant funds for the implementation of the programme. So the program of the living room and the help in the house of older and powerless people. For the first time in 2006 and the second time in 2008. Your associates rated the request justified. There's a promise of help for the elderly and the powerless, and then there's a notice from your ministry that the plates can't get the funds for that purpose. On the other hand, city money is not enough and threatens to essentially stop the whole project. The old and the powerless would be left to themselves, and there are great demands. So far there are 200 of them. It's a single nursing home. Persons with reduced social, socio-economic status and persons with severe health impairment. I ask the question, Madam Minister, why are older and powerless persons in the city of Pločam discriminatory from your ministry or why do you not want to include them in the daily stay program and help, and help in the house?
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20143	Thank you. Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam MPs, unfortunately, the way you've been formulating the question now at the end gives me the right to judge it with extreme malice. So none of the old and powerless persons in Plots or anywhere in Croatia are discriminated against by, of course, the projects of the living rooms and the help in the house carried out by my ministry. It's probably about that, and I'm going to check it out, so I'm going to be happy to answer you in writing that people who asked for the participation of the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity in the day-to-day programmes and therefore help older people have not answered our call in time. As you know for each budget year, a certain amount of funds has been provided and this year the most so far for assistance programmes and living rooms or help in the house, and they are probably late for the competition that we have called. So that's one truth and, of course, it should be taken into account and I will certainly check it out and the basic criteria according to which we determine that a city, a county, a municipality, goes with us in cooperation through these programmes. The basic criterion is, of course, the number of persons over 65 years of age and, of course, everything else that can help, therefore, the interest of the local community or the city, the county or the municipalities and the way in which they can participate in the project, which means finding a certain space and so on. So I don't think there's any need to assure you that no one in Croatia, no city, and of course this could refer to Ploče for any reason, because we're not interested in who's running the city, county or municipality, but we're interested in how many older people there are in need and who need the help of the state. If the boards of course meet all these conditions I can already promise you that we will consider it but provided they report in time in the 2009 financial year.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20145	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20146	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. As far as this request is concerned in your ministry, it is essentially justified. Your associates have already justified the request when he arrived this year 2008. And as for the local community, the local community has made its own. They gave room, the county gave vehicles. So there are conditions, the program is already under way, and that's why it's weird why it's now, why now the funds aren't given? So no matter what, the fact remains that the criteria of your social sensitivity are actually measured by the criteria of political similarity. Thank you very much. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20147	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all MPs and deputies, members of the government... Ladies and gentlemen, with this, this concludes "The current morning". [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll continue the session at 3:00 and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20148	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. It's on the agenda. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Meter, with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 179 The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation and economy. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Tamara Obradović Mazal will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. This proposal confirms the Convention on the Meter, and the Convention on the Meter is an international contract based on official decisions on units of measurement and on most of the issues relating to the world's measuring system. The convention itself was signed in Paris on 20 May 1875. That Convention established a formal establishment in which, since then, its respective authorities have been working together on issues of measurement which are of interest to the international community. The accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Convention on the Meter creates the possibility for the Republic of Croatia to exercise the same status as the other full members in relation to decisions taken by the General Conference on Weights and Measures and to participate equally in all activities carried out under the Convention on the Meter. Since its independence, the Republic of Croatia is building its own national measuring system to meet the national needs relating to industrial development, product quality, health protection, and in particular the involvement of the Croatian economy in international industrial cooperation, including the active involvement of Croatian measuring organisations and experts in the work of international organisations in the field of measurement. Therefore, the purpose of the signing of that international contract and its accession is to strengthen the involvement of the Republic of Croatia and its economy in international cooperation in the field of measurement and the conclusion of international agreements on mutual recognition of the same value of measurement and testing conducted in the country. Participation in activities taking place under the Convention on the Meter is also a means of ensuring the recognition of national measuring capabilities at global level. It is of particular importance to apply an agreement on mutual recognition of national measurement levels and a certificate of measurement and measurement issued by the national measuring institutions of the signatories. The aim of this Agreement on Mutual Recognition is to provide the state with a secure technical basis for broader agreements relating to international trade and the overcoming of technical barriers to trade. Therefore, the interests of many users of measurement are not limited to national level but have an international character. At national level, the development of appropriate measuring activities with an increased emphasis on international coordination and involvement in the work of international measuring organisations and, in particular, international organisations based on the Convention on Meter so as to be able to represent national interests in international discussions and negotiations on international agreements is required. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes to confirm this convention to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20150	Thank you. The Economic Committee? Legislative? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20151	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, It is my special honor to take part in the discussion of this extremely important law for the entire Croatian quality infrastructure, which involves a functional and effective system of standardisation of the accreditation of measurement, an examination of compliance as a fundamental assumption of free collidation of goods and services and therefore both people and capital. Quality infrastructure is also a key requirement of Article 73 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as an instrument for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. Let us remember that Article 73 requires Croatia to take all necessary measures to gradually achieve compliance with the technical regulations of the European Community and with European standardisation, measurement, empowerment and percentages of conformity assessment, and must also promote the participation of the Republic of Croatia and its institutions in the work of specialised European standardisation organisations, in particular in the European Committee on Standardisation, the European Committee on Electrical Standardisation, the European Institute for Telecommunications Standards, European cooperation on authorisation, and then in European cooperation in the legal monitoring, and in an organisation called EUROMET, or organisation that brings together national measuring institutes. By adopting this Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Meter, we will finally get out of the society of countries such as Barbados, Belarus, Guyana, Costa Rica, Cuba, Kazakhstan, Kenya, T. Tobago, Saint Lucia, Suriname, Saint K.Newis etc. These are all beautiful countries with beautiful beaches even relatively preserved environments with the exception of, say, Belarus, which is polluted by Chernobyl accident, but these countries participate with a minimal share in world trade. By adopting the law, we will also strengthen the traceability of national measurement levels in accordance with the requirements of our national measuring institution, i.e. the State Monitoring Office, which, as well as national institutions of other signatories of the Convention on the Meter, ensure measurement within their own state. So let's say something about the National Measurement Institute, that is, the Croatian Measurement Institute, whose establishment was anated by the National Measurement Strategy, which was adopted in 2007 for the period from 2007 to 2013. According to the strategy, the 29 HMI status was to be adopted in December 2007. HNI itself was supposed to be founded early this year. In September, his staff was to be appointed, and by June 2008, a list of laboratories to be the holders of national ethlons was to be created. According to this strategy these days, modern agreements on cooperation with a number of international organisations including EUROMET as well as agreements with national measuring institutes of other countries were to be established, and of this there is only a regulation on the establishment of the Croatian Meriting Institute, which the Government adopted at the end of June of this year. Let's see what the European Commission thinks about that. While the report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia for 2008, the Commission says that in the area of quality infrastructure, Croatia has yet to make an even greater effort to comply with the acquis of the European Union, the reality is I would dare say a little more dreary, or much more dreary. For example, some infrastructure projects in the field of measurement within... i.e. under IPA technical assistance, i.e. The pre-accession assistance instruments that we will have opportunities to discuss in the context of Bill 187 which seems to me to be the eighth on the agenda of this session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, within these pre-accession assistance instruments, the Commission has rejected some projects related to the improvement of measuring laboratories which are carriers of moisture, time and frequency with a reason that there is no Croatian monitoring institute except as under the Regulation, no furniture, no management, no business plan has been adopted. There's no institute. Unfortunately, for unknown reasons, even Mr. Director of the National Monitoring Institute has not been appointed, although the National Bureau of Measurement has done a lot of good to Croatian quality infrastructure and the improvement of measurement in the Republic of Croatia, so it has done a lot in the field of institutions and its associates, have done a lot in the field of technical and technological diplomacy, so that the Republic of Croatia is smiling and organising a general conference of EUROMET sometime around 2010 which is an exceptional recognition for a country, but it is a fact that some laboratories in our country are doing their job with dignity and bearers of a national standard even though they are not networked into such structures as it would be necessary to exist in a regulated legal state and such structures as the European Union requires and to which we have committed ourselves through the adoption of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So, by signing this convention, we finally approach the polite group of states with advanced measurement, so we might remember the lesson and definitions of the meter according to the International Office for Measures and Weights, or BIP, which says that the meter is the length of the trajectory that passes the light in the vacuum over a period of one 299 million 792 thousand 458 seconds. The second itself is determined to the uncertainty one to ten on fourteenth using the Celsius clock. So science has progressed so much that it's essentially a meter defined by time, or frequency. And while in the strategy, and we see that the measurement uncertainty has risen to ten to minus fourteenth, unfortunately, in the Measurement Strategy for some levels, security in the fifth and sixth decimals, which is positive, but also to welcome, but unfortunately it is not enough for the development of nanotechnology or even picotechnologies, and that is unfortunately the reality of the Croatian economy. Because the Croatian economy needs far less than our laboratories can actually offer. However, it is not good that in this Strategy of Measurement and Development and the Croatian Measurement Institute, other than these holders of ethlons, which already operate, everything else is left for 2013. This can be read from an investment strategy, here it is said that the target deadline for determining or establishing the national laboratories of the Ethlon holder which do not include existing authorised national laboratories is the year 2013. The question arises, what about the surveying in chemistry, what about the metering at the pharmacy? What about monitoring in the environment? What about the water? Does this mean that we have somehow explicitly given up entering the European Union before 2013 because it is necessary to measure and to develop measurement in these other segments in order to guarantee and clean the environment, in order to improve and develop biotechnology? It says that the 21st century will be a century of bioscience, biotechnology, and we are still on a 20th and 19th century ethlons. Of course, there are positive shifts, and yet this is the same positive example that the National Bureau of Measurement has made. These days, an accredited laboratory for, like, a laboratory related to radioactivity or to the measurement of ceramics, which is extremely important for development, for example, for the development of dosimetry, medical diagnostics and so on. In any case, the adoption of this law is an exceptional progress for the development of scientific measurement but also for the economy because the fact is that more than 90% of world trade takes place between countries participating in these activities signed by the Conventions, the Convention on the Meter of course. The development of measuring activity will therefore experience further incentives and will ensure, with the already established and European level, the recognition of the system of accreditation of the examinations and... the laboratory and certification and inspection bodies, further development of technical infrastructure based on the results of scientific research and necessary for the safe production and use of products and services, in order to strengthen the national economy and to increase its competitiveness at international level and in the context of the World Trade Organisation, within the European Union and at CEFTA level, which is not to be rejected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Translated this means the functional efficiency of Croatian quality infrastructure and the full service of the Croatian economy from this infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20152	Thank you. Mrs. Marija Pejcinović-Buric's club of HDZ representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Director of the State Department, colleagues and colleagues. The appropriate arrangement of the area of measurement is one of the ones that is important among other things in the context of the adaptation of the Republic of Croatia to membership in the European Union and in the area of one of the so-called so-called 4 freedoms on which the creation of a single market is based, and this is not so accidentally numbered as Chapter 1 or Chapter 1 of the freedom of movement of goods. In the area of measurement at coordination, it has been systematically working for the last 5 years, and in this sense Croatia has fully harmonised its legislative framework. However, in order to understand the meaning of this law, it is important to recall what are the main quantification tasks? This is primarily the definition of internationally accepted units of measurement followed by the achievement of units of measurement by scientific methods and ultimately, although not less significant determination of the traceability chain in documenting the accuracy of measurement. In order to protect the public from self-will and to ensure a smooth exchange of goods, which is of particular importance in today’s day, are reliable measurements. Measurements are important for all commercial transactions of goods but are becoming more and more important for the protection of human health and safety and for the protection of nature and the environment. One of the significant measures implemented in the context of adaptation to the European Union system in this area was the basis of a separate body in charge of measurement. So today we have the State Bureau of Measurement. The proposal for a law on certification of the Convention on the Meter will further strengthen the measurement in Croatia because under this proposal, Croatia will become a full member of the General Conference on Weights and Measures, so that our representatives can participate in all activities that take place within the framework of the Convention on the Meter, including active participation in the work of advisory committees, the International Weight Board and measures to prepare all key international decisions in the field of measurement. This will also enable membership to measure national ethlons in the laboratories of the International Office for Weights and Measures at a more favourable price than we have had to do in other joint laboratories so far. Finally, the Republic of Croatia builds its own measuring system from its independence, including the active accession of Croatian measuring organisations and experts in the work of international organisations in the field of measurement. The Republic of Croatia has been an associated member of the General Conference on Weights and Measures since 2004 and the adoption of this law would allow Croatia to become a full member of this organisation as of this year. Taking into account the importance of this Convention and the importance of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in those international forums, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20154	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20155	I am correcting the incorrect allegation that the respected colleague Pejcinović has been systematically working on the development of measurement in the last 5 years, although this is extremely flattering for the coalition government since it is falling in September 2003 in those 5 years, the Law on Measurement, Product Security, the organisation of accreditation and so on. The fact is that the systematic development of measurement has been done much longer, I would dare say at least since the establishment of the State Institute for Standardization and Measurement, founded by the HDZ Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20156	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20157	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Vice President, I don't know if I can say this, but this time I agree with both the HDZ and the SDP, no matter how it sounds. I think here with this bill of law, a colleague and a colleague, nothing is disputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20158	It's that law of dialectics and unity of opposites.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20159	Nothing is disputed here for a number of reasons. It's about the economic need, it's about the professional and scientific need, it's about the civilization need. If we want to follow the international system of measures, if we want to co-operate with advisory committees and regional measuring organisations, if we want to mutually recognise national measurement levels, if we want to co-operate with international bodies that have related missions, then the Assembly must ratify this Convention, we must adopt this law. What is not said, and I think it should be said that 24 countries have already done so. 13 European countries are associated, so 37 of them. Croatia can clearly not be left out of this system and I ask you all here together after we have finished this debate we agree to confirm without any problems and further questions to this Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20160	Thank you. And again, the representative, Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20161	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, honored Mr. Director of the State Department, colleagues and colleagues. It is an opportunity for me to speak on my own behalf about measurement as an extremely important component for development not only of the economy, but also of science in the Republic of Croatia. I think Croatia has a good concept that has joined the creation of the Croatian Measurement Institute. In fact, there are already many laboratories that operate at universities and institutes that are the holders of national ethlons and which successfully service the needs of measurement, which are of course especially necessary for Croatian accreditation agency evaluators who examine the skills and competences of test laboratories that examine products intended for the Croatian economy and exports, and therefore it is no wonder that this section of accreditation and normisation has received quite a good rating, although the chatter did not go well, it could have been better, but not because of these two components. It would indeed be worth even more to work for the establishment of the Croatian Meriting Institute, and it is a pity from that segment that no one from the Ministry of Science is present under which, under whose supervision, the institute will act in the future. There is another principle issue, in fact, the use of resources that the Republic of Croatia has fortunately in the scientific-academia community, which is how effectively these experts are used to make their maximum contribution to meeting the conditions set out in Article 73. The Stabilisation and Applicability Agreements which you express, as I said in the previous debate, require the intensifying of activities in the field of standardisation, accreditation and measurement, etc. In other words, experts, scientists should be stimulated to participate more actively in the boards of the Croatian Standardisation Body, and should also encourage Croatian scientists and experts to make their contribution as evaluators of the Croatian accreditation agency. Unfortunately, because of often some administrative problems, it is not possible to engage certain people because they simply cannot get the day off to act as assessors of an accreditation agency in a training study of any appropriate laboratories or testing laboratories and then have to engage people outside, which is more expensive, unnecessary, time more demanding, etc. In the end, Croatian universities and universities are somehow the mahogany owned by the Croatian state as they are owned by the State and the State Institute for Measurement and Accreditation Agency, and in fact, there should be some kind of institutionalization of this process and that it simply creates some form of conduct of a circular letter or I don't know what to decan or directors of the Institute that the participation of experts from their institutes and universities, hospitals in the interest of the university itself, because it not only contributes to the improvement of quality infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, but also those people who act outside of their institutions come to some new knowledge, adopt some new knowledge, is a greater flow of ideas and knowledge among related institutions and as a person who am very involved in the development of infrastructure and I act in quality infrastructure. Here I appeal to the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy for the most serious consideration and in some way systematic resolution, to enable the assessor to act on the tasks provided by the accreditation agency. It is similar with the action of people on the technical committees of Croatian standardisation because people do not come there, they think it is only a bureaucratic contribution which is not at all true because they actually dictate the dynamics of adopting new norms, which should still be adopted according to the recommendations of the Croatian economy, and let us remember that the conditions for accession to the European Union are that Croatia must adopt around 85% of Western European standards. Now, according to this report, we've adopted about 10 grand, 10.5 grand. So we still have a very big job to do. It is also necessary to meet these formal conditions set up by the European Union in particular by EUROMET, in which we are a Member State through the National Bureau of Measurement and to establish a Croatian monitoring institute but not as an empty shell, but to fill it with both people and administration and our necessary infrastructure to start acting on the satisfaction of the scientific-academic community but also those 130 laboratories as well as those 50 that are waiting for accreditation because it is not rare that those measuring services unfortunately have to seek truth abroad not because of the absence of an institute but that there is an institute it would be much easier to service these needs. And to finish, I'd be happy to personally support the adoption of this bill as well as the SDP club, which I forgot to say in the club's name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20162	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20163	Please, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, let's get involved to see the quorum. Score. 95. We can decide. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Meter was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 179. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Meter. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that most votes, 98 votes for and 5 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law confirming the Convention on the Meter.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20164	Ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, we would now move to the Report on the termination of the parliamentary term for MP Miroslav Škori and the start of the parliamentary term for Deputy Representative Berislav Roncevic. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Damir Sesvecan to submit and explain the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20165	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The term of office of the Croatian Parliament shall be based on its competence referred to in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement at the 14th session held on 19 November 2008 on the resignation of MP Miroslav Škora addressed to the president of the Croatian Parliament on 28 October 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the end of the period to which he was elected if he resigns, while further Articles 11 and 12 of the Law states that the MP whose term of office has ceased to be replaced by the representative from the same party list from which the MP has been elected and designated by the political party who has proposed the list. As Mr Miroslav Skoro was elected representative in the 6th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list in 4. The election unit of the Croatian Democratic Community is a letter sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament from 4 November 2008 in accordance with Article 12(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Berislav Roncevic as deputy representative in that election unit. The follow-up of the panel found that the resignation of Miroslav Škora's representative was met with the law and that the conditions for the termination of his representative's term of office were laid down and that his deputy was appointed by the Croatian Democratic Community and the legal conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Berislav Roncevic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the discussion was carried out pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of office of the representative and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of the deputy representative. On 19 November 2008, the parliamentary mandate of MP Miroslav Škora ceased. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 19 November 2008 began acting as Deputy Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20166	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20167	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When we took the oath of office, we swore that we would stick to the Constitution and the law in our work, and therefore the SDP Representatives' Club will vote in favour of this conclusion, because this report is based on the law. However, we have sworn that we will act conscientiously and responsibly, and that is why we cannot keep the facts of this case quiet. The first fact is Mr. Skora's statement on the reasons for leaving his post. Let me remind you, I quote: "The media have created a general picture of politicians as to how the benefits are low, thieves who only care about the armchair, good wages, two months of annual and privileged pensions." And he doesn't want anyone to think he is. And he also said, "It's not important to be in power and think about how to calm yourself but it's important to change things for the better and it's hard in our country to fight with windmills.". First of all, we in the SDP don't accept that it's the media's fault. They are primarily guilty of the actions of the government, especially with regard to retaining certain privileges for politicians. I would like to remind you, the proposal to redefine parliamentary pensions at the last session in the current class is called the Socialist Regulatory Board. So this is an opportunity to remind again no matter how much it looks to fight the windmills and say we're not all the same. Well, if you and your colleagues are going to keep it quiet and get over it, we won't. Another fact is the one about the election of deputy representative Mr Roncevic. I note that it is the undisputed right of the party to choose from the list they want, so this is not a criticism of the work of former Minister Roncevic and future MP but primarily of HDZ staff policy and someone long ago said that it was the basis of every human policy. We can guess why of the seven remaining candidates on the list from 4. The HDZ constituency has chosen Mr Roncevic. I don't even want to talk about the period while Mr Roncevic was the defence minister about his relationship with the President of the Republic, about the case of military trucks and everything else, but only about what remained in the MUP after such a staff policy. And in order not to attack to correct the incorrect allegations I will quote only three passports from Mr. Karamark's report here in the Parliament. Therefore, the so-called managers did not normally possess the real authority on which they could successfully manage the system and develop it in accordance with best European practice and standards, but only possessed formal authority. This necessarily led to system disturbances. The lack of vision and long-term police development strategies leading to the current state of the police organisation which cannot secure its basic function, which is a favourable state of security for people, property and public order. The police today are not satisfied with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but the police organisation is not satisfied with police officers, which shows the current research into the views of citizens and police officers, and I deeply believe the attitudes of all of us. Therefore, even though police are not satisfied with the citizens, police officers were obviously satisfied with HDZ. It's the only thing that's stuck so far it can't be done like that anymore. So she sent her faithful soldier's party into the background, waiting for a better time for the situation to get a little bit better and that it could be politically re-scheduled by the police. Therefore, this whole shift - and - appointment story can be reduced to that old party’s “appeal of condemnation, and the other one can be saved. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20168	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20169	Well, since my colleague is a club representative, I have to correct my club representative. In fact, this decision today was taken without HDZ, only one vote by the HDZ was for that and the president. Minority and opposition voted because HDZ representatives did not come to the Mandate Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20170	I'm closing the debate. I pray the quorum, and we will vote on the motion for this decision. 84 MPs and MPs, so we have a quorum. I ask who is in favour of the motion for this decision, so that, instead of MP Miroslav Skora, who resigned, his term of office ends, and that the parliamentary duty begins to be acted by Deputy Representative Berislav Roncevic. Who's in favor of a decision like this? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 84 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the proposed decision has been made. Mr. Berislav Roncevic's oath of deputy representative will be given tomorrow. We're going to the next point 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Police Mission in Afghanistan (EUPOL AFGANISTAN), with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 180 Committees on legislation, internal policy and national security and Croatian integration conducted the debate. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You are presented with a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Mission Police Mission in Afghanistan. This is one in a series of agreements signed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with other countries, i.e. international institutions, all of which is a fruit of extremely high professionalism, expertise and competence of police officers of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia who have shown around the world peace missions. Currently, 23 police officers from the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia are acting and this is most often high-level management duties in five missions and we have one police officer in Haiti, 12 police officers in Kosovo, 3 police officers in Cyprus, 2 in Afghanistan and 5 in East Timor. For their work, we receive from all these peacekeeping missions an extremely positive and high assessment and this bill confirming the EU Police Mission Agreement in Afghanistan is another confirmation that police officers of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia are holding their jobs in the establishment and maintenance of peace worldwide extremely professionally, professionally and competently. So far, police officers, two police officers have carried out their mission in Afghanistan as part of a German contingent, and these become independent representatives of international peacekeeping forces. As I have said, I consider this to be another major certificate of expertise, the training of police officers of the Ministry of the Interior, which they express around the world, and we consider it to be a strong confirmation and affirmation of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and the police officers of the Ministry of the Interior, so I suggest that you pass the law by hasty procedure because these police officers would immediately start, or continue to act as a duty, and the adoption of this law does not require additional financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20173	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20174	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union police mission in Afghanistan best illustrates the efforts of the wider international community to ensure a full contribution to stabilising the situation in Afghanistan and to ensure the necessary reconstruction of all institutions that are a prerequisite for the normal democratic life of all citizens of Afghanistan. That task is extremely complex, complex. At this time, nearly 50,000 people from 50 countries are involved. We discussed the Croatian contribution of this important task and these important efforts of the International Community through the adoption of the extension of the Croatian contingent in NATO's ISAF Peace Mission in recent years from 50 to 100, 200 and now last year to 300 people. In any case, the basic tasks and the main objective of the international community establish such a security environment that will enable normal economic life, normal economic activity and all that is the characteristic of every normal society education, health care and everything else. In establishing and strengthening this security sector, certainly the most important task is the ISAF task of NATO, which includes 40,000 people, and it is also very important to create police training in Afghanistan, the military part, the Afghan National Army this hour has 80,000 people and is expected to have 120,000 people in almost a year. We are all witnessing that Croatian soldiers, officers, officers are investing in cooperation with all NATO member states, but also many others, in order to train this part of the security sector of the Afghan state. Police are also an important fundamental civilian institution of every society, so the need for development and modernisation and training of police. The Republic of Croatia has so far had two representatives of the Ministry of the Interior who have participated in the ISAF mission, acted in northern Afghanistan in Feizabad and two years ago I had the opportunity to visit these people personally and to see them professionally, consciously and responsibly carry out their non-light, difficult tasks, I would say in that part of the abyss of Afghanistan. Certainly, strengthening the province's reconstruction teams is an important task that needs to be trained by the local community so that basic living conditions can be established. However, the basic lives of the preconditions are difficult to establish in an environment where there are no minimum safety conditions and therefore, the European Union's police task is very important and the Republic of Croatia will make its contribution through the very near confirmation of the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of our police officers in this peace operation. The articles of this law regulate all important issues relating to legal certainty, the system of command, so here's what I'll be able to say as soon as possible. Article 1 states that the Republic of Croatia is joining a joint action and any joint action or decision decided by the Council of the European Union on the enlargement of Jupola in Afghanistan. Staff directed by the Republic of Croatia in this mission should carry out their duties, acting solely with regard to the interest of the European Union mission. The legal position of staff is also clearly defined in Article 2. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for the launch of any proceedings, in particular judicial or restrictive against any member of its staff in accordance with its own laws and regulations. Many things in these legal provisions are similar to what we discussed in the Croatian Parliament when we discussed the subject of the sofa, i.e. the status of forces, classified data and their availability is regulated in Article 3(3). The Republic of Croatia shall take appropriate measures to ensure that classified data of the European Union are protected in accordance with the security regulations of the Council of the European Union contained in Council decisions. Command Lanad, Article 4, all personnel participating in Jupol, Afghanistan remains under the full command of its national authorities, but what is very important to emphasise, national authorities shall transfer operational surveillance to the Head of Mission of Jupol in Afghanistan, who shall carry out the task through the hierarchy structure of command and supervision and thus ensure the day-to-day management and performance of all tasks that stand before this contingent. The financial aspects, highlighted in Article 5, are very clear. The Republic of Croatia shall bear all costs related to its participation in the operation other than those subject to joint financing as set out in the operational budget of the operation. Article 6 as the participation of the Republic of Croatia constitutes a significant contribution necessary for the operation, the Republic of Croatia is exempt from contributing to the operational budget of Jupol Afghanistan. Therefore, not only do the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia contribute significantly to the international community's efforts to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan through NATO's ISAF peacekeeping operation. It is also obvious that the Ministry of Interior through its people, through their preparation and through all the efforts they make in this challenging task also makes an important contribution to the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club will give full support to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Police Mission in Afghanistan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20175	Thank you very much. There is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, distinguished colleague Miljenko Doric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20176	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is as in the previous case of an international agreement which we here in the Parliament cannot change or supplement. Therefore, we can only talk about whether to accept him as we have him here in front of us or reject him. We've been through this bill in detail at the HNS club, and we agree that we should absolutely support it. In fact, you have seen if you have carefully read the proposal and the international agreement itself that it is a completely new European Union mission, that the European Union wants to unite, systematise and standardise police forces and their work in the Afghanistan area, and that is good. So far, these units have often acted independently within rural teams, which was certainly wrong and this is certainly one higher level of coordination. For this reason, it is logical to support the transition of our NATO police officers to EUPOL as this new European Union Peace Mission is called. What we would like to add here, however, because we believe that it is not well enough explained and that there is something that we must warn the Government of, and that is on page 2, point 3 under the heading "The personal issues that are proposed to be regulated by this law". This law not only regulates the legal position of Croatian staff in a police mission, not only to regulate the issue of protection of classified data, further hierarchical structure of command and supervision, the issue of financing the costs of the Republic of Croatia in connection with participation in this mission is regulated. In particular, we would like to warn about what is not written, and it should certainly be stated, and this is also the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to compensate in the event of a fatal outcome from one of our members. I think we have to ask the government to, once we have ratified this international agreement clearly, to bring the rules of the game as soon as possible, because it would be very embarrassing if the government didn't get there, because it's very important that the family wouldn't then have to appeal to the international agreement, try to make that compensation clear, which would be really unnecessary. In addition, it is stated that the issue of contributions to the operational budget of the mission will be regulated, which may be an unnecessary part of the text, because if Croatia participates in such a way, then it does not cover the costs of the operational part of the mission, we are freed from this in Article 6, so we just wanted to warn about these several details specifically regarding the compensation in the event of the death of one of our members. So we ask that the additional sublegal part of the job be done as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20177	Thanks a lot, buddy. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished colleague Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20178	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the text in question of the bill, because it deepens mutual cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and thus supports the policy objectives of the Republic of Croatia towards the European Union in terms of contributing and increasing security as well as the preservation of peace in Afghanistan. We believe that some of the facts such as integration into the European Union should be highlighted in this peace operation, it is one of the main objectives of Croatian foreign and security policy, so Croatia is harmonising its foreign and security policy with the views and actions of the European Union. Given the recent entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership in the European Union, by participating in this mission alongside other EU countries, we offer our abilities at our disposal. With this mission under the leadership of the European Union, Croatia will practically in addition to the participation of our Armed Forces in Afghanistan since 2003, and will strengthen the civilian component in part of the police force. Why is participation of the police forces of the Republic of Croatia in this peacekeeping mission important? Analysing Croatia's contribution to peacekeeping missions around the world in terms of HSS views for several reasons is important. First, regardless of security and in a wider and closer environment, an optimal level of our national security cannot be achieved. Afghanistan is located before the beginning of the whole transition process, it is burdened with security or economic-social problems and under the supervision of the international community. The processes and conditions in Afghanistan can in some ways pose a certain security risk to the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the provision of a bill relating to the scope and structure of our resources, it is evident that our human, material and financial opportunities were also taken into account, given the limited resources and our ability. The objective peace operation is of a demanding nature, so certain side effects can never be excluded. We hope that the preparation and training of personnel to go on this mission will be well done, and we have no doubt that our members will successfully carry out all scheduled tasks. And at the end of the debate, I also take the opportunity to congratulate all of our members on the successful conduct of tasks in peace missions around the world. For these several reasons and reasons mentioned earlier by colleagues from clubs, the HSS club supports the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20179	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted the application for a debate in front of the clubs. We have one individual application. Dear fellow MP Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20180	Dear Mr. Vice President, here are the club representatives who supported this proposal, and I will give my debate the same great support to our members who are in Afghanistan and around the world. The Republic of Croatia has been involved in the MaySOP operation since February 2003, in the first stage it was only a military presence, but gradually as the experience on the ground was gained will include a civilian component. Since January 2005, Croatian diplomats have been involved with members of the Croatian Armed Forces in Afghanistan. The Croatian contribution to ISAF was planned on a long-term basis. The activities of the Republic of Croatia in operations in Afghanistan are multiple. As a responsible member of the international community, the Republic of Croatia, who in its own time was also the recipient of international assistance, wants and needs to contribute to the building of peace and stability in the world. By engaging in pain and stabilisation in Afghanistan, Croatia indirectly contributes to the international fight against several of today's greatest global threats that neither country nor Croatia has been spared. contributes to the international fight against several of the greatest global threats of today, from which none of the countries are spared, including Croatia. It's terrorism first. As Afghanistan was one of the world's major terrorist standoffs and terrorist training bases and drugs and most of the opium and heroin in the world market by October 2001. In the 10th of July 2007, based on a joint declaration of civil co-operation within the German circuit reconstruction team in Afghanistan between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany of September 2004, the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the... advisers participate in the establishment and reconstruction of the police system as well as in the construction of civil society in Afghanistan. A decision by the Council of Europe's Secretary-General on the unification of all police systems that operated independently in different provinces in Afghanistan has led to a joint action on the establishment of Afghanistan. A peace mission led under the auspices of the European Union. Based on an open tender for participation in the new peacekeeping mission, the MUP has run for two police officers who have met the criteria set so that they are selected for participation in the mission. At the invitation of the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia approved the signing of an agreement on the participation of EUPOL Afghanistan between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union and their... application signed by Ivica Kirin and then the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union. It should be pointed out that Croatian police officers are taking part for the first time in police missions under the auspices of the European Union. Its professionalism and expertise confirms the fact that Croatian police officers are for the first time on the receiving mission based on the competitions held for all members of the European Union and for some third countries including the Republic of Croatia. They are participating in this mission, a new international community assistance page has been opened following participation in UN and NATO missions and we are participating in the European Union mission as soon as we indirectly contribute to the rapid adoption of European standards. Croatian police officers are working there to care for NATO's mission, as experts who are trained by Afghan police officers and part of EUPOL diplomats on the province's rebuilding team are mainly involved in supporting the consultation of local self-government institutions and the establishment of existing local justice and police conditions, and particularly the Afghan national police. The Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia, in a short time, has turned from recipients to international aid providers such as Afghanistan, East Timor, Cyprus, Jordan, Kosovo, etc. The text of the agreement itself clearly specified the law and obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the UN mission in Afghanistan. To all our members of the mission in Afghanistan, both military and civilian, I want my work done professionally and professionally to the pride of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then to return to their families alive and healthy. I support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20181	We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Would you like to see a proposaling representative? No, I don't. Thank you, too. I'll close the discussion then. We'll hold the vote when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20182	2. Final proposal of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union police mission in Afghanistan, EUPOL, Afghanistan, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 180. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Police Mission in Afghanistan (EUPOL Afghanistan). Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that most votes, 102 votes in favour and 4 abstentions are subject to the Act of Confirmation of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20183	And we go to the third point of the agenda, which is 3. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Revision Act - third reading, P.Z.E., No. 99 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This law does not determine reading, and we will discuss it in accordance with Article 158. The Rules of Procedure which prescribes that, in this case, the debate shall be conducted subject to the procedure laid down for the second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. We received reports from the board at the session. Do you want a proposaler's representative here, would Mr. Zdravko Maric want to take his word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. So, in short, I would just like to point out once again what are the main amendments and additions to this proposal to the final draft amending and supplementing the Law on Audit. Therefore, the Revision Act was adopted at the end of 2005 in the "National Journal" No. 146/05. and entered into force on 20 December 2005. The basic reason why we went and proposed, in fact, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit is full harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. compliance with the provisions of the eighth Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on the laws of the regulated audits. The main amendments and additions relate first to the establishment of a Committee on Public Control of Audit, which numbers seven members who appoints the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance for 4 years and solves the Government of the Republic of Croatia by introducing public oversight of the hope of the work of the Chamber and the entire audit profession with the aim of improving the quality of the work of the audit. The Court of Auditors shall be responsible for the audit of the members of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament, the Council and the Council, of the Council and the European Parliament, of the Council and of the European Parliament, of the Council and of the Council, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. That change shall be carried out in order to increase the efficiency of the work of the Management Board of the Chamber. Finally, it is proposed that the Chamber of Chambers be appointed by authorised auditors as professional persons, as well as other professional associations, so we refer to examples of the Chamber of Doctors, dentists, architects, public notaries, lawyers and others, and not how it is governed by the provisions of the law that the Assembly be made up of audit companies and independent auditors, i.e. at this time professional associations are not managed by professions, but are managed by the owners of capital, i.e. the owners of audit companies. Ladies and gentlemen also allow me to say that between the first two readings and this day we have one thing to say, so we can say to the sub-chapter which was in fact a reaction and a proposal and a suggestion of the European Commission, so that we strengthen the provisions concerning international cooperation with the Member States, and to third countries, and I must also say that the comments and comments we have heard in the parliamentary debate on the transparency report which we have actually suggested to speed up with its adoption in force so that it is not more than a day of entry, but rather a day of entry into force of this law. In the end, let me also say that the adoption of this law is one of the preconditions for closing Chapter 6. - Negotiation of the right of companies and to propose that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the "National Journal" of course other than articles governing the business of auditors from the Member States whose provisions take effect on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the representatives of the board want to take a word? on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Honorable Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20186	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 19th session held on 19 November 2008 the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit, the third reading submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a Act of 24 October 2008. The Finance Committee and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question under Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament was submitted with a written proposal for the amendment of the Croatian Audit Chamber to the law in question, which is required to postpone the suspension of the tariff of audit services until the full entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. In connection with the above amendments, the Committee held the view not to support the amendment of the Croatian Audit Chamber but to keep the committee at its position in the second reading of this law, which unanimously supported the abolition of the tariff on audit services and the introduction of the fee for the audit provided by the contract. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20187	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? It doesn't either. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20188	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have one of the few laws that we can discuss in the third reading in this House of Commons. This may in itself testify to the importance of this job to bring the legislative framework of regulation of the audit issues into line with, above all, the provisions of the 8th Directive of the European Union which has been amended in the meantime, but also to bring about some new solutions that should improve transparency in the work of audit companies but also transparency in view of the potential for public insight into the tasks they are carrying out. The audit is one of the most important procedures for assessing financial reports and data and the way in which financial reports are reassessed, on the basis of which expert opinions are then given in the reality of the situation of assets, capital, liabilities and business results. So, one very important mechanism in the functioning of the overall economic system but also in a number of property-legal transactions. It is known that the law now in force was adopted in 2005 and that in these three years of its life it has shown a number of shortcomings in the practices that need to be removed and it is good that the whole series of changes are going in this direction and in this sense the HNS Club will support this proposal. However, we cannot and cannot warn that the government is acting again in certain situations in accordance with its good practices, which is that some principles are interpreted again in a unique way. We have so far had in several cases a single dose of arrogance, a dose of stubbornness that has always been returning and we have always been in a position that what the opposition is saying is the same as what the European institutions warn about, so when we get to that point in the negotiation process or to evaluate the legal rules, we forget how much time and effort we have actually spent, and we have been able to avoid it all. Here's a couple of heels from this law. It is said that the candidate for an authorised auditor must have a good reputation. It's not quite clear from this bill of law, which means a good reputation. Namely, whether a good reputation has one supported by most of the public, for example, one variant of the formulation. According to that logic, no member of the government could be an auditor because the government supports 30 per cent of the people, according to public change research. It is assumed that in view of the formulations that are in this law, a person of good reputation is considered to be a person who is not legally convicted of criminal offences against the security of payment and business. Great. But what about those cases when we now liberalize this matter towards foreign citizens and the legislation in their countries has a different formulation so let's say they include some other things such as abuse of official duty, abuse of positions and powers, embezzlement, unconscious work in service, receiving and giving bribes, etc. Does it mean if you're convicted of this, that you still have a good reputation in the spirit of this law? Probably not, and it would be good to specify and be precise. Furthermore, these amendments and additions are proposed and are required to take all insurance measures in carrying out an audit of related companies where the impact on independence and the taking of measures is expressed in a statement. It's not exactly said anywhere that these would actually be all insurance measures. For how this will affect real independence and revision mechanisms when the auditor states himself in his statement that he has taken all the necessary measures. Furthermore, the proposal provides for a new mechanism for increasing transparency, which is called the Transparency Report, and that is something we have already discussed here. However, is transparency achieved by the auditors publishing this report on their websites? Or maybe it would be better if the obligation to publish these reports on the chamber's website so that everyone knows in one place where reports are of such type. Certain concerns are also caused by an article which prescribes that an authorised auditor should not become a member of the management structure of the audited public-interest society whose reports have been signed two years after the termination of the audit work. We have two questions again. Is it in the sense of this law and where the company's supervisory board is written to be considered part of the management structure? The Company Act says otherwise. So that kind of person can become a member of the Supervisory Board or can't? And what if he was working with an auditor who was putting together a report but he personally didn't sign that report and he was working on it. So what do we do? Is it then that person in the conflict of interest if within two years he becomes a member of the management structure of the company to which the report is written? Another inaccuracy. We wish she wasn't here. One of the papers envisioned by these amendments and amendments to the law is the establishment of a Committee on Public Control of Audit. Great. Very good, smart, modern solution. But does every solution of this type have to be in the hands of the Minister of Finance as discretion? What would be missing if the Croatian Parliament appointed such a body for such an important job? What are the criteria, we see here formal, that the Minister of Finance would propose to the government such a seven-member body for four years? Well, of course the government will accept the Minister of Finance's proposals. No one will ever ask the Minister of Finance why these people are proposed? It's not a government custom. The government trusts its ministers. If you didn't believe them, the prime minister would probably ask for their resolution. But we don't have to trust anyone in advance. We have been called upon by the people to question not everything not because we would be wicked but because of the fact that we would eventually determine what kind of failure to correct it in time. Is it a problem to give Croatians the right to propose, or perhaps even appoint, the competent body of the Croatian Parliament? Think about it. This would certainly increase the level of impact on the objectivity of the election of this seven-member new body and we are well-intentioned. The deadlines that were given to make that body work, cumulatively that's 90 days, are not enough. Our practice shows that the adoption of sublegal acts goes much harder than it is declarative. In order for such a body to function, it is necessary to adopt sublegal acts. We are therefore afraid that in 90 days, we will not be able to establish a functional body of supervision as imagined by the legislator, and in this sense we are praying for a smart but objective assessment of whether these 90 days really are enough? If the promoter says yes, then don't be angry if we ask you for heroic health within three months? What have you done on this matter and has the Council functioned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20189	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished colleague, Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20190	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The very fact that today we have this proposal for a third-reading review law tells us that this law is as important as my predecessor Beus said. The audit of financial reports is necessary under market economy conditions because capital owners are interested that, through the assessment of the reality and objectivity of business reports, independent experts testify to their credibility, or we can literally say that the revision is a kind of bridge of trust between the ownership and management structure of the economic operator. Let's remind ourselves and recapitulate this matter. The revision law adopted in 2005 was in line with European legislation, specifically with the 8th Directive of the European Union, however, as the European acquis in this area has been amended in the meantime, we are in a situation where we need to re-coordinate the Revision Act with the current European regulations. The backbone of this harmonisation consists of provisions which remove discrimination against auditors, citizens of European Union countries against domestic auditors or allow the audit of foreign auditors in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The second part of the harmonisation concerns the provision of public oversight of the audit profession and the quality of the work of audit firms, independent auditors and also authorised auditors. There is nothing special to say about the entry of foreign auditors into the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We also made it possible for foreign lawyers to do legal work in the Republic of Croatia several months ago by harmonising the Law on Attorneyship. In one word, Europe is expanding its market in all segments, or in compliance with European legislation, it is mostly being reduced, we could almost say, to the one-way opening of Europe's entry into Croatia, or to ensuring access to our resources from natural resources through infrastructures to human beings. What we from the SDP Club and in the first two readings have had an objection to the arrival of foreign auditors and it is unfortunately not included in this proposal is that a foreign citizen, a candidate for obtaining an authorised auditor's certificate, on the other terms listed in Article 7, does not have to know the Croatian language. True, his document proving the appointment of an authorised auditor will be nostrified by the audit chamber only after verifying his knowledge of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia necessary to carry out audit operations, so that this check should be in Croatian. But the question arises how will such a check actually be carried out if the candidate does not know the Croatian language? In addition, one of the numbered conditions for obtaining a certificate is also high professionally prepared, but is not defined which orientations. Does that mean the auditor could be a geode? We therefore propose to supplement the conditions of high education in such a way as to make it a high professional preparation of economic orientation. The majority of the legal text concerns harmonisations related to strengthening the public oversight of the audit profession. It should be recalled that, so far, public oversight of the audit profession has been in general, and the audit chamber has been in the power of the Ministry of Finance. The proposed changes in the public oversight shall be transferred to the competence of the specific body, independent and independent of the profession, so to the Committee on Public Control. But members of that committee, which seven are still proposed by the finance minister, are appointed and resolved by the government. So it's not a neck, it's a neck we'd say. In relation to the second reading in this third reading, the Committee on Public Control was added, with the primary obligation of inspection supervision of the audit profession and one quite specific task prescribed by the 8th Directive, which is international cooperation with the related supervisory authorities of other Member States of the European Union, but also third countries in particular on the issues of irregularities identified in the work of foreign authorised auditors, i.e. audit firms. What further alignment has been made with the acquis of the European Union? The amendments to Article 20 and also to the recommendation of the European Commission have deleted the tariff on audit services, i.e. the fee determined by the contract has been fixed. In other words, the price of audit work becomes a matter of free market bargaining, and there is a clear difference between other similar professions, i.e. the lawyer's and the public records which continue to have a fixed tariff, as much as the lawyer's tariff approves. This elimination of tariffs has caused me to say a lot of disdain on the ground because, primarily in the opinion of the profession, there is a space for unfair competition and the provision of audit work in a way that I will simply say it, they are making cheap reports with agreed content. The production of a quality audit report is a long and demanding job which should have at least the lowest price below which it should not go under. The tariff should therefore not, in the opinion of the profession, be abolished until it is imperative, or until we have entered the European Union. In this regard, even with the amendment of the Croatian Audit Chamber, it is opposed, the profession opposes the suspension of tariffs, and proposes to reduce the lowest prices in the existing tariff for small, medium and large entrepreneurs. These are therefore the most significant alignments with European legislation. In addition to these significant implementations, however, they are both less significant or at least want to be shown. Under the cover of minor changes, the number of members of the Assembly of the Audit Chamber is reduced from 9 to 5 so far, and the number of members of the Administrative Board from 11 to 7. At the same time, regional representation of members of the Governing Council is lifted, with priority given to representatives of large audit firms. The reason for this change is to make it easier to carry out work and the possibility for representatives of large audit firms to participate in the work of the Governing Council instead of audit firms from different regions, as has been the case so far. This is not a minor change, especially if it is known that it is in the power of the Governing Council to appoint authorised auditors who carry out quality checks on the work of audit firms and independent auditors and especially in a country with a high level of corruption such as Croatia. In fact, this provision is double we could even say discriminatory because it favors Zagreb, because only in Zagreb are large audit houses and because it favors this – large audit houses. How's the kid gonna deal with the big guy? Hypothetically, let's imagine a situation where the little auditor gets in the way of the big one. He's got a grudge against him. He'll be eliminated immediately from the market. It will disappear or become a rental labor force to a large auditory house that will certainly collect creams and the child will leave crumbs. The novelty in this legislative proposal is also a report on transparency that an audit firm and an independent auditor must draw up in all cases when auditing companies of public interest such as, for example, companies whose securities are listed on the stock market, such as banks and other financial institutions, and such as companies of particular State interest whose underlying capital exceeds 300 million kuna. Of course, these reports will also express only large audit houses. The purpose of the transparency report is to gain insight, i.e. the general picture, we could give a reputation for the audit company which conducts the audits referred to above. This is why such a report, which the audit firm is to place on its website within three months of the end of the financial year, must therefore make it available to the public, must contain a series of data on the structure and structure of ownership, management structure, internal quality control system, financial management through public-interest data in which an audit was carried out in previous years, up to a declaration relating to independence. And speaking of the independence of the authorised auditor from the audited entity, it shall, with the transparency report, endeavour to legally strengthen with two more separate, i.e. additional fuses, picturedly speaking. The first fuse is a mandatory replacement, i.e. the rotation of authorised auditors in such a way that an authorised auditor may sign an audit report with the same entity for a maximum period of 7 years, and then the replacement of the signatories must be carried out so that the same auditor can re-sign an audit report with the same entity only after the expiry of a period of at least two years. However, since this mandatory rotation is limited only to the signing of an audit report with the same entity, and not to the participation in the audit process of such a legal solution to a certain extent devalues the original good intention, which is to increase trust in the objectivity of the audit report. The second additional fuse is a legal provision to prevent conflicts of interest in such a way as to ensure that an authorised auditor for a period of two years after having resigned from the audit company does not become a member of the management structure of the audited public interest company whose report was signed. However, it is not clear here until the end whether only the authorised auditor who signed the audit reports or who took part in the audit process is referring to himself. Regardless of these inconsistencies, our joint remarks regarding all three of the instruments described are the following. As we are already harmonising our legislation with European legislation, why the application of these legal solutions is linked to Croatia's entry into full membership of the European Union. Therefore, why it should not apply immediately after the entry into force of this law. Don't we want a transparent and independent audit today, regardless of what Europe is asking us to do? The SDP club will support the adoption of this law, so that it would be good for everyone to remove these apostropheeded ambiguities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20191	Thank you very much, colleague. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The audit companies and persons authorised to provide audit services in Croatia have been operating for more than 15 years and have certainly contributed to their own and their own control and advisory role to companies in meeting complex requirements of the legal and economic environment, thereby contributing indirectly to the obvious economic and general social progress. The audit law adopted at the end of 2005 laid down the persons authorised to provide audit services and regulated the audit of financial reports and consolidated financial reports, the audit officer and the conditions for the provision of audit services. The 2005 Audit Act established the Audit Committee, the establishment and operation of the Croatian Audit Chamber, the quality of the work of audit companies, independent auditors and authorised auditors, and the issue and withdrawal of a permit for the provision of services and audits, as well as the introduction of a tariff provision for audit services. At the time of the adoption of the Audit Act, it was agreed with the 8th Directive of the European Union, which amended and adopted a new law under which it is necessary to harmonise the existing law on audit in the part of the possibility of carrying out an audit of foreign auditors in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the part of public oversight of the audit activity, quality of the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Revision Act is fully in line with the Directive and the acquis of the European Union and will certainly contribute to the creation of more credible and quality financial reports. In particular, the most important amendments and additions to this final proposal should be highlighted. Thus, the final proposal for a law introduces a provision which requires the authorisation for work, i.e. the certificate to be issued to auditors from other countries, i.e. that the audit in the territory of Croatia may also be carried out by foreign citizens. This provision will certainly contribute to the quality of the audit and the reduction of audit services prices due to increased competition. The proposed amendments and additions also amend the provisions of the applicable law relating to public oversight of the audit. In accordance with the 8th Directive, which requires public oversight of the audit profession and thus the chamber to be in the jurisdiction of a special body independent of the profession and that public oversight should be carried out by persons who are not professionally engaged in the implementation of audits, but who have knowledge in this area of the provisions proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on Audition by the Committee on Public Control whose members are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. In addition to the public oversight of this law, the quality of the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors in the jurisdiction of the chamber shall be checked independently and objectively if audits are carried out in accordance with the law, international audit standards, or audit profession methodologies. These new provisions on quality verification of audit work are of exceptional importance because, despite the positive performance of audits over the previous 15 years, it is not necessary to ignore the fact that individual audit firms and persons authorised to carry out audits during this period have fairly compromised both the profession and the function and the role of the audit, and that there are individual audit reports of companies which can be professionally analysed only with a certain dose of discomfort, given the neglect of normal standards and the methodology of the profession. This law also lays down the conditions to be met by authorised auditors who carry out quality checks on the work of the auditors, and the most important condition is that five-year experience on the tasks of the audit and that I appoint them as the administrative board of chambers, with the prior consent of the Audit Supervisory Committee. This provision prevents conflicts of interest between persons carrying out and verifying the quality of work and audited entities, while at the same time determining that the chamber must specifically allocate funds for the financing of authorised auditors carrying out quality checks and therefore require consent and ex-post supervision of the Committee on Public Audits. This law also regulates the transparency report which audit firms and independent auditors draw up when auditing companies of public interest and in order to obtain general picture and insight into audit companies. In addition to the transparency report, this law provides for amendments, i.e. the rotation of authorised auditors in carrying out audits of the financial reports of companies of public interest, so that the authorised auditor may again participate in the audit of the same entity only after two years. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the justification of the change in the proposed amendments and the additions to the applicable law relating to the suspension of the tariff of audit services, which was indeed unsustainable in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union, but also to respect the principle of free competition, since the current provision in the tariff of audit services was indeed unsustainable, and that it was also rationally and justified to introduce a category of compensation for the audit provided for in the contracts. For the implementation of this law, a million kunas are planned at the annual level, and these funds for carrying out quality checks will be provided by the Croatian Audit Chamber within its means. The proposed final draft law amending and supplementing the Audit Act is indeed a very good legal framework that allows for the return of trust in the audit institution, the rehabilitation of the profession in the performance of the audit service, the strengthening of competition and the reduction of the prices of audit services. For this reason, the HDZ Club supports this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20193	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate in 10 minutes. The first came to the floor by an esteemed colleague of Parliament, Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20194	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The audit law adopted at the end of 2005 regulates the implementation of financial reports and consolidated financial reports of the auditing obligors, determines the persons authorised to provide audit services, the conditions for the provision of audit services and other audit issues. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the revision that we are discussing today primarily allows the Law on Audit to be fully aligned with the acquis of the European Union. The audit law lays down the conditions to be met by an authorised auditor in order to obtain a certificate for the calling of an authorised auditor issued by the Croatian Auditory Chamber. According to the legal property of the European Union, the authorisation for work must also be granted to auditors from other countries, i.e. that the audit in the territory of the Republic of Croatia may also be carried out by foreign nationals. Therefore, in the proposed amendments and additions to the Audit Act, this possibility is prescribed in such a way that an authorised auditor may be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia or a foreign national who needs to nostrate an apartment which proves the appointment of an authorised auditor. The knowledge of his legislation of the Republic of Croatia will also be checked, and this check will be carried out in Croatian. This law also amends the provisions of the applicable law relating to public oversight of audits. So far, as we have heard in previous discussions, public oversight of the audit profession and chamber has been in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. However, according to the eighth Directive, public oversight of the audit profession and thus the chamber is required to be in the jurisdiction of a special body independent of the profession, it is required to establish an effective public oversight system for audit firms and authorised auditors, and public oversight should be carried out by persons who are not professionally engaged in the conduct of audits but possess knowledge in that area. Since this supervision must be carried out by a body which is independent of the profession, the provisions of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Revision Act, it is proposed that such supervision be carried out by the Committee on Public Control of Audits whose members are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. In addition to public oversight of this law, provisions of the applicable law laying down quality checks on the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors which comply with the provisions of the amended eighth Directive shall also be harmonised. Introducing quality, quality checks of work are in the jurisdiction of the chamber which must check independently and objectively whether audits are carried out in accordance with the law and international audit standards. The quality check will continue once every six years, however, at least once every three years from an audit firm or an independent auditor carrying out audits of public interest societies. What is another newspaper in this law is that the transparency report which audit firms and independent auditors draw up when carrying out a public-interest audit such as companies whose securities are listed on the stock market, banks and other financial institutions and companies of particular State interest whose underlying capital exceeds 300 million kuna. In addition to the transparency report, this law requires and replaces the rotations of authorised auditors in carrying out audits of company financial reports of public interest, so that the authorised auditor may again participate in the audit of the same entity after a period of at least two years. In this way, it is intended to achieve the independence of authorised auditors from the audited entity. A significant change in this law is also the one relating to the suspension of the tariff of audit services due to compliance with the acquis of the European Union and respect for the principle of free competition. In the end, I am giving full support to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20195	Thank you to your esteemed colleague. Following is the debate of distinguished counterpart Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would also like to point out that there is no doubt that the right of companies is not only one of the chapters in negotiations with the European Union but rather one of the key areas in terms of how all economic operators operate or how they function, their position on the market, their status, the acquisition of rights and obligations, and of course always understood in terms of free competition, or healthy competitiveness. And that is why the legislative regulation of this area is undoubtedly of great importance because it is, in fact, a framework, a key element of each economy, and there is hardly any economic activity that the foothold does not find in those legal provisions that are directly and indirectly affecting the rights of companies. I believe that, in this context, an analysis of the existing legal text should also be made, namely the provisions of this law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Auditing, including having primarily in mind and consistent development of one of the basic principles of the functioning of economic operators in all democratic societies, which is the principle of respect for the free competition. So, by analysing the legal provisions themselves, we come to the conclusion that they provide answers to very important questions relating to the way in which the audit of the financial statements is carried out by the auditing officer, and these solutions give us answers to the following very important questions. The first of them or a set of these questions is which entities can carry out an audit, i.e. who can all and under what conditions be the authorised auditor in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, or other, in the manner in which the public oversight of the audit is carried out, I repeat public oversight. A third or third group of issues of great importance is to verify the quality of the work of audit firms of independent auditors and authorised auditors and, finally, also very important, and to point out this in particular, so the way in which the audit firms and independent auditors draw up during the audit of companies of public interest, and we have heard a lot about these reports of transparency or the implementation of the principle of transparency in the conduct of the audit, and in that affirmative sense, indeed, as one of these solutions proposed, which is in law as one of the quality legal solutions. The taste of all these newspapers or new modern solutions fully consistent with the acquis of the European Union may be shared in this sense by three groups. Therefore, consent on the legal property of the European Union may be an authorised auditor under these decisions, but under the condition of the nostrification of a document proving the calling of an authorised auditor, with the examination of the knowledge of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and given the fact that this verification is therefore carried out in the Croatian language in my opinion, then the possibility falls away, there is no doubt that someone who will answer in a professional and any other sense to a whole series of questions in Croatian that it happens that he does not know that language. So, one with the other is quite certain in some logical relationship of knowledge and Croatian language as a prerequisite for being in a position to do this audit work. Furthermore, public oversight of the audit profession and chamber has so far been in the power of the Ministry of Finance and is now, of course, going beyond the provisions of the law in the competence of the Committee on Public Control of the Audit. Also a new and quality solution regardless of how members of the Committee themselves are appointed. The committee is a separate body and in terms of its responsibility, mode of work and transparency in its work is that legal solutions are such that on the proposal of the Minister of Finance, I ask a question and on whom others are appointed, so the profession, professional people on that committee. However, this committee publicly and transparently brings both its work programme and the way it works, and what it does is even obliged to publish publicly and transparently on the websites, so in my opinion there are no objections that we have had to hear in terms of the work of this institute I think that this is really a new and quality solution and that this is exactly what in the entire audit system in the Republic of Croatia will give one new quality. It is also very important to note that this law accurately prescribes carrying out quality checks of work. So, the quality of the work we had in the debates so far and in the name of the clubs that it was exactly what or perhaps in certain situations was a painful point, in which to establish criteria to check the quality of the work of certain auditors. The fact is that if we carefully analyse the current provision of the law, that is, the current solution so that all of these irregularities, which may have been removed by the law itself, but also by the following provisions of the law which apply in these situations not only the legal provisions, must, of course, be applied to the provisions of the law and the international audit standard. As regards the report on transparency, I would not repeat myself, because this institution as a report is indeed a new institute of distinguished colleagues and colleagues have talked a lot about it as a quality solution and it really is quality, because it is drawn up according to the methodology of strictly formal prescribed law and is of course related to very important entities, so these are companies whose securities are listed on the stock market, banks, other financial institutions and, of course, companies whose share capital exceeds 300 million kuna. This report on transparency, the way it is made, the way it is published, and these legal solutions are really, in my opinion, quality legal solutions. Finally, we have a really modern law ahead of us. A law that offers quality solutions, suitable for our economy, is in fact a law that is fully and fully in line with the acquis of the European Union in a very, very sensitive, demanding area such as the area of finance, the area of audit and, of course, it absolutely needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20197	Thank you very much, counsel. A distinguished colleague colleague, Davor Huška, also reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues have been told a lot about the amendments to the Law on Audit, but here is the third reading of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit, I would only stick to two segments, which is to check the quality of the work of audit companies and the report on transparency which is governed by this law. This law aligns the provisions of the applicable law which prescribes quality checks of the work of audit firms, independent auditors and authorised auditors with the provisions of amending the eighth Directive, carrying out quality checks in the jurisdiction of the chamber, which must verify independently and objectively whether audits are carried out in accordance with the law and international audit standards, i.e. methodology and other rules of the audit profession. The quality check will be carried out further as said once every six years, and at least once every three years with audit firms or independent auditors carrying out audits of companies of public interest. This law also lays down the conditions to be met by authorised auditors carrying out quality checks on the work of the auditors, which is a minimum of five-year experience on audit operations, and their appointment by the Management Board of the Chamber with the previous consent of the Board. Secondly, this law regulates the transparency report, which has already come upon positive assessments which audit companies and independent auditors draw up in carrying out a review of companies of public interest. So companies whose securities are on the stock market, banks and other financial institutions, and companies of particular State interest whose underlying capital exceeds 300 million kuna. The transparency report shall be drawn up for the purpose of obtaining a general picture and an insight into the audit companies carrying out the audits referred to above. The transparency report is also required to draw up a company within three months of the end of the financial year. It must contain an entire set of data as a description of the structure of the ownership structure of the management structure of the audit company, the independent auditor, their description of the internal quality control systems and other. Finally, we praise that some of the laws go into third reading, and it is evident from the colleagues in the opposition that here it is after the first, second, the third reading still has objections to this law and I am afraid that we would go to some fifth and tenth reading, so that the law would not be perfect, therefore we exist and we are working here and the representatives of the Government who follow the amendments to the legal acts harmonize with the amendments to European laws. We are proposing this, and we are trying to bring these laws through our discussions to the best of looks and as simple and quality application on the ground as possible. Because of everything said in both the first and the second, of course, and here in the third reading, I give full support to this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20199	Thank you, counsel. It is up to the debate of distinguished counterpart Kresimir Gulic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20200	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government. Since the revision is a process which includes the evaluation and examination of financial reports and the data and methods used in drawing up financial reports on the basis of which an expert opinion is given in reality and objectivity, asset status, capital, liability, the results of the operation, I believe that this bill allows and guarantees such work. I would refer to some of the newspapers introduced by this bill in relation to the law passed in 2005 and I think they are crucial and very important. This is public oversight which is within the competence of a specific body independently of the profession, means the Board of Public Audit, expertise guarantees the fact that members of the Board must know the area of audit but is also important that they are not actively audited in the last three years. Members shall be appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The Committee, as an independent and independent public oversight body, would play another important role, which is cooperation with the competent supervisory authorities of other Member States and third countries. Public surveillance gives us some kind of guarantee and security in the correctness and objectivity of the domain of the audit. The quality of the work of the auditor is extremely important to me because it guarantees us the implementation of this law, so the chamber must verify the independent and objective conduct of the audit in accordance with the law and other legal rules of the audit profession. After determining the conditions to be met by an authorised auditor carrying out an audit of the quality of the work of the auditor, thereby strengthening full objectivity and preventing conflict of interest. The Transparency Report provides us with insight into audit firms and independent auditors who carry out company audits of public interest, so companies whose securities are listed on the stock market, banks and other financial institutions and companies of particular state interest whose underlying capital exceeds over 300 million kuna. The prescribed replacement rotation. I keep this paper very important because it prevents access and audits, so it prevents crime, some kind of bias or setting up. It is important that the auditor be moved after a certain period of time to carry out his work more objectively and impartially. Who can perform the audit? The audit in the Republic of Croatia can also be carried out by foreign auditors along with of course Croatian. There... Croatia opens up Croatia for all Europeans as well as the interest of foreigners in Croatian legislation because knowledge of legislation in Croatian is, of course, a prerequisite for obtaining certificates as well as the nostification of a foreign document proving to be called an authorised auditor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Termination of the tariff of audit services in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union and respect for the principle of free competition. This paper is also important because in the future the price of audit services will be formed on the market by a contract between customers. I support the final draft law amending and supplementing the Audit Act because I believe it is of great importance, that it will enable better examination and assessment of business, better organisation of business functions as well as the way decisions are taken. For the sake of this above, I will support this Revision Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20201	Thank you very much. And the last one to be reported for debate is Honorable fellow MP Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20202	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished secretary, other government colleagues. I think that today we are in this afternoon's debate and when it comes to this topic, is there in the most part that I do not say consensus but we agree on both the meaning of this legislative project and through this total three readings of it with its total grinding, harmonisation and how the basis of the observations here from the Assembly itself and the amendments that have actually come out of it, and through all three readings, the best solutions have been crystallized. And that's why I'm not going to repeat myself right now when it comes to that because my predecessors in this hall have said it all, repeated it, or pointed out some misunderstandings. Perhaps only one life example from practice which is related to the field of audit, though not directly through the report... The audits of the internal or internal audits within our local and regional self-governments which have emerged as a legal provision recently and as such have led the municipalities of smaller or towns which, above all, and the internal audits, have brought us into one situation where, apart from the internal audit of the business of financial, commodity and in particular... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, it points to something new and it is actually an advisory role in the functioning of the unit of local self-government because in this way these offices or individual auditors and positioned by the largest work of the mayor's office and are independent of the day-to-day functioning of the city's executive government, in fact one excellent correction of behavior in those daily decisions, given that the mayor or the authorized person makes decisions to launch certain audits from the city's domains or municipalities, and in this way and in fact encourages the person, the employees, throughout the year with an emergency, not to mention possible inappropriate actions, but to speak precisely about how they behave in the work and business themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm saying this from my own example of the town of Zapresic, which is where we first considered this legal provision to be an obligation that we must fulfil in the first moment, so I am telling the truth, that, over time, we would actually see the quality and advantage of such work because some new things came out, the course of work processes and everything that is important in the circulation and documentation itself if we applied... in the end, they were able to place in those financial reports of a particular position and from that title the overall concept of revision in this country, and then through this segment today which I have said which I consider to be an extremely positive and welcome and new step and which is then in line with the directive itself and the European Union itself, I consider something that helps all of us, and it helps in this overall business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, from this well-known example of the practice of the city in which we find it today, which, as well as the approximation of the entry into the European Union, follows further changes quoted as follows, which I am giving all kinds of support, as did the predecessors in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20203	Thank you very much, fellow representative. Is the proposer's representative ready to come forward? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20204	3. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Audit, Third Reading, P.Z.E. No. 99. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audit. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. I find that most of the votes, 101 votes for, 4 abstentions, have been accepted by the Amendments and Supplements Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20205	4. Proposal for a law on international restrictive measures, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 182 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in your boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. According to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Foreign Policy. We received the report or the minutes from the board's session at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to give an introductory explanation? This is Secretary of State Mr Davor Bozinović. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20206	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. You have before you the proposal for a measure law, international restrictive measures. One more of the laws in which the Croatian legislation is aligned with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. with the provisions in common, on the common foreign security policy of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. It is our proposal that this law be adopted by emergency procedure in order to address basic issues for the regulation of conditions for rapid and effective application of restrictive measures. The European Union shall apply restrictive measures with a view to preserving common values and interests, as well as the independence and integrity of the Union in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Helsinki Final Act of the Conference on European Security and Cooperation, and the Paris Charter on New Europe, in particular in the section relating to external borders, which is of exceptional importance to the Republic of Croatia, given that, after full membership in the Union, the geopolitical position will be part of its external border. These facts contribute to the importance of establishing Croatian legislation in the field of international security and the proposal for this law, ensuring full and effective implementation of all sanctions and measures of the European Union's restriction adopted in accordance with the relevant articles of the Treaty on European Union. The restrictive measures are adopted by individual countries on the basis of the proposal, i.e. the requirements of international organisations, which apply to third countries or organisations in order to address crisis situations without the use of force. Since countries and international organisations which apply them mainly serve political and economic pressures on countries or organisations to which such measures apply, restrictive measures are rightly seen as a possible alternative solution to open conflicts, and as such constitute an important instrument of combating terrorism, endangering peace and security, violations of human rights, or international law as a whole. A very important feature, a restrictive measure is certainly a regular revision of those which opens up the possibility of a timely reaction to a positive shift in the countries to which such measures apply, or immediately after its implementation. Such a positive view of the problem of restrictive measures, i.e. the award system of countries which decide to participate in international relations in a constructive way, before a destructive way creates a fertile ground for further cooperation and development of entire regions. The disappearance of the concept of international relations that was based on the global bipolar structure and the balance of the two superpowers were opened as ladies and gentlemen are known to be new processes in which new non-state entities have emerged alongside the state with an apparent impact on international security. At the same time, new political interests are emerging, new antagonisms that condition new forms of political relations between states as well as political processes and relations within states. The emergence of new actors at a supranational but also sub-national level that puts their action first as a determining factor in communication puts international security ahead of new challenges. The instability, terrorism, conflicts, the military threat is returning to the focus of interest even though it requires a whole new understanding and attitude towards these categories. This certainly requires an appropriate response from the institutions of the International Community in which the Republic of Croatia is far from lagging behind in taking care of internationally accepted forms of cooperation. One of the important instruments of international policy, which as a ultimate goal, are to preserve peace and strengthen international security, are certainly international restrictive measures defined as an effective mechanism of arms control, preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, and thus preventing terrorist and other non-state entities from financing, but also individual states and their institutions that do not respect international law in the security segment. For the Republic of Croatia, which has been successfully profiled by the recipient, i.e. the subject of security measures, which has been more talked about in the previous point and the management of therefore crisis situations, it is essential that experience and acquired expertise participate actively and contributes to the international system of collective security. In addition to the United Nations Security Council resolutions, restrictive measures may also have a source in the autonomous restrictive measures of the European Union whose Member States, in accordance with the provisions of the competent authorities, directly introduce measures in accordance with the sanctions laid down in the UN Security Council resolution or adopt their autonomous restrictive measures. Therefore, when drawing up the proposal for a law to international restrictive measures, the specific emphasis is placed on consulting the solutions given in that segment by the European Union as a whole as well as individual Member States, in particular those which have joined full membership in the last round of enlargement. The documents on which a special emphasis has been placed when drawing up a proposal for this law, which the European Union has defined its position, are primarily guidelines for implementing and assessing restrictive measures, and the basic principles and best experience of the European Union for effective implementation of restrictive measures. It is also important to note that this proposal for a law stems from negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and is listed in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the EU for 2008 in the area of the common foreign security policy. After the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism, the adoption of this law will contribute to security and foreign policy so that we can say that both laws therefore cover two very important segments that represent modern and security challenges. Since the existing 2004 law does not determine the competences and obligations of individual institutions to apply and implement international restrictive measures, nor does it provide for penalties for offenders, the need for the implementation of these two segments in Croatian legislation has been recognised, and that is, ladies and gentlemen before you in the form of a proposal for a new law. It comes from the effective application of international restrictive measures by defining the competent authorities responsible for the implementation and supervision of the implementation of those measures. Violent or criminal provisions for natural and legal persons or other entities have also been introduced in the event of infringements of them. The consequences resulting from this law are the creation of a legal framework for the implementation of restrictive measures taken under the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union and the full and coordinated action of the Authority of the State Administration in implementing restrictive measures in accordance with the international commitments made by the United Nations in the event that the Republic of Croatia joins restrictive measures by other international organisations and in other cases in accordance with international law. It is therefore necessary to create effective mechanisms for the introduction of restrictive measures after accession of the law before the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Furthermore, it is also of particular importance for the national interest of the Republic of Croatia to apply the provisions of this law as soon as possible in order to increase the safety of all its citizens. So, of course, the law is part of the legal gain of the European Union, but in the first place, we bring it first because of ourselves, because of our citizens, so it is important to note that the responsible application of these measures, especially when it comes to the economic sector, leads to and achieve high criteria of business responsibility and credit, contributing to the reputation of Croatian companies that are opening up new, better quality business opportunities in the long term. Therefore, in accordance with Article 161(1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20207	Thank you, Doctor. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the esteemed representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament at the 13th session held on 19 November 2008 discussed the proposal for a law on international restrictive measures with the final proposal for P.Z.E. law. number 182 submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 27 October 2008. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed the proposal for this law as a parent working body. In the debate, the members of the Committee stressed the importance and interest of the Republic of Croatia as a candidate country for membership in the European Union to support this bill, which will more clearly define restrictions on individual countries or its physical and legal entities. Consistent application of international restrictive measures prevents or restricts the movement of certain goods, people and property in cases that may lead to an international threat to security while at the same time strengthening the foreign policy interests and national security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Following the debate, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on International Restricted Measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20209	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee. There's no application. European integration as well. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, a respected representative of counterpart Miljenko Doric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20210	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. On the day of entry into force of this law, the Law on International Restrictive Measures will cease to apply. I only mention this because I was present in this House in 2004 when, when we were accepted, all proposals in connection with the current law. I must say, and I would like to point out in particular that we of the opposition had a series of proposals to improve this law. Unfortunately, no single proposal at that time was accepted by the opposition and you see that after 4 years, the law comes for a correctional exam. Not only is he coming to the correctional exam, but the Croatian government's proposal has decided that he is so bad that changes and additions can't be fixed, but a whole new law is being passed. Thus, no matter how quickly we want to adopt the European acquis, we do not need to be too hasty because then the job is repeated several times. Today’s law, even though it envisioned restrictive measures toward natural persons, did not provide for any concrete measure aimed at natural persons. He predicted and predicted, here is still the current, three types of measures; the interruption of diplomatic relations, the interruption of economic relations and the interruption of all kinds of communication. But none of them, as you can see, were referred to by individuals even though they were legally mentioned and should be subject to that law. Also, the existing law does not provide for any penalties or sanctions for violations of the law. We must absolutely say that this bill that we have before us is a better, significant improvement in all the shortcomings that we were underlining and underlining at the time. I would point out those improvements because I think it's really important. In Article 2 of the proposal for a law provides that, in addition to the follow-up of international restrictive measures laid down by acts of the United Nations, the European Union and other international organisations, the Republic of Croatia may, in accordance with this proposal, impose restrictive measures in accordance with international law, hence its own restrictive measures, which is good. The same article of the law lists restrictive measures which are now 6, not more than 3. In addition to the three measures mentioned earlier, we now have an arms embargo, a restrictions on entry into the country and a restriction on the availability of property. This last restriction is very important. For the first time, it really does refer to individuals. In fact, the restriction on the availability of property is well-developed, very clearly defined what the property is and what this bill refers to. This time, Articles 15 and 16 of the bill also provides for a elaborate system of penalties for violations of the law, which has so far been a major shortage. However, we also have several suggestions at the HNS club, so we would really ask you to listen to us and, if possible, to correct some of them. In fact, the bill introduces the so-called so-called law. a permanent coordination group to monitor the implementation of the restrictive measure instead of the inter-resor group so far. That law, the existing law taxively states the ministries, as many as 7 whose representatives form an inter-resor group, while this bill does not have a word on the structure, on the powers, on the rules of action of the group itself, it is said that these issues will be resolved by a decision on the establishment to be established by the government. We'd like to know a little bit more about that decision, when it will be made, and how you intend to resolve the composition. It remains unclear whether this permanent group is thought of as an inter-resor group, as it has been so far or otherwise. We believe that this law should define how many groups will have members, from which resolutions and what level of government officials will be part of the group. It should also be defined who performs administrative and professional tasks for the group because from the experience of a colleague and colleagues so far, we know that the quality of the work of such bodies depends largely on the administrative capacity of the services accompanying them. Finally, Article 6 of the Law states that the Government will, by its decision, set up a database on restrictive measures taken and natural and legal persons and other entities subject to restrictive measures. Paragraph 5 provides that these data shall be stored for 5 years from the end of the restrictive measures. I think that this deadline is too short and should be at least twice as long because this deadline actually sets a deadline within which the institutions of the system remember the activities of the entities that caused the application of the restrictive measures and for this reason we are in front of the HNS Club and we have given one proposal for an amendment, I hope that you have received it where we propose to extend that deadline from 5 to 10 years. After all, I would like to stress that the HNS Club will support this bill. I believe that it is a significant improvement compared to the existing law, so that I would really ask you to take this seriously, or consider our proposals, especially the amendment that we have tabled here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20211	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague, Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20212	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club supports the proposal for a law on international restrictive measures with the Final Bill. Before I begin to discuss the very proposal for a law, I find it necessary to take a brief look at the past. In 2004, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on International Restrictive Measures to regulate the introduction, implementation and abolition of international restrictive measures imposed by the Republic of Croatia, implementing or abolishing against states, international organisations, territorial entities, movements or natural and legal persons and other entities covered by international restrictive measures. The implementation of that law has shown insufficient efficiency and efficiency and it has been assessed that the adoption of a new law should create an appropriate legal framework for the introduction and application of international restrictive measures in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Since the current practice of European countries has shown that international restrictive measures are a very effective mechanism of arms control, preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction, and thus preventing terrorist and other non-state entities from financing, as well as certain countries and their institutions that do not respect international agreements, it has proved necessary to enable them to apply them as quickly and directly as possible in the Republic of Croatia. The restrictive measures are diverse by their content and reach and are mostly placed in economic sanctions for the ban on imports and exports of weapons and other military equipment, dual-purpose goods that could serve as weapons of mass destruction. The restrictive measures may also be an end to diplomatic relations, a complete or partial suspension of economic relations, complete or partial restrictions on imports, exports, transport, provision of services and transport, postal, and other communications, as well as an arms embargo, restrictions on entry into the country, restrictions on the availability of property and other measures in accordance with international law. The related measures are also financial sanctions from freezing financial resources to confiscation of assets and banning business with individual banks, or other financial institutions. The restrictive measures include the restriction of entry, i.e. through the country of individual names and the last name of those persons. This law will address issues relating to the rapid and effective application of these measures. Following the adoption of the law on international restrictive measures, the Government will establish a permanent coordination group to monitor the implementation of international restrictive measures, to monitor and coordinate the application of restrictive measures under this law. The government's decision to set up a group will detail the structure, authority, way and rules of action of the group to be led by the foreign affairs ministry's representative. The government will also decide on the establishment of a database of data on measures to limit natural and legal persons and other entities to which these restrictive and related measures are concerned. The data collection will establish, manage and maintain the ministry responsible for foreign affairs. This database of natural persons will contain relevant data on the identity of persons and citizenship, complete data on property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the date of initiation and the date of termination of a certain restrictive measure, the measures taken and the information on reasonable suspicion of the initiation of the infringement or the attempted breach of the restrictive measure. The collection of data on legal persons and other entities will contain information on the name and place of the legal person, the person authorised to represent the legal person, the complete data on the property in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the date of initiation and the date of termination of a certain restrictive measure, the measures taken and the information on reasonable suspicion of the initiation of the infringement or the attempted breach of the restrictive measure. Those data on natural and legal persons will be stored for five years from the end of the restrictive measures, and after the expiry of that period, the data will be deleted, or destroyed in accordance with the rules governing the protection of personal data, i.e. with regulations governing the confidentiality of data or archived in accordance with the regulations governing the safety of archived material. Data from this database will be provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to international organisations in accordance with the legal rules and at their request. If there is any doubt that the violation or attempted breach of the restrictive measures contains elements of a criminal offence or any other criminal offence, the data contained in the data collection will be supplied to the national authorities responsible for detecting criminal or criminal offences and the initiation of proceedings. Physical and legal persons and other entities will have the right to access data in the data collection relating to them in accordance with the rules governing the protection of the confidentiality of data and the protection of personal data. It should also be noted that for the damage caused by the application of this law it will not be possible to submit claims for damages to the Republic of Croatia or persons applying restrictive measures unless the damage is done on purpose or with extreme negligence. Consistent application of international restrictive measures will prevent or restrict the movement of certain goods of persons and property in cases that may endanger the national security of the Republic of Croatia or security at international level. The new law will also strengthen Croatian foreign interests at the same time. What is very important is that the new law will more clearly define a wide range of restrictions on certain countries or their natural and legal entities, while at the same time bringing into line with EU regulations, which, in accordance with the decisions of the competent authorities of the Union, directly introduce measures in accordance with the sanctions laid down in the UN Security Council Resolution or adopt their autonomous restrictive measures. The Republic of Croatia, as a candidate and as a future full member until its membership in the European Union, will make individual decisions on the introduction of certain such measures for different entities, and, after full membership, will be made and applied directly and in accordance with the acquis communautarieu. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the HDZ Representatives' Club gives full support to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20213	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP advocates' club, Honorable representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The SDP club supports the substantive adoption of such a law, deeming it necessary. But we need to draw attention to it immediately, the very title that is just like this, and neither the addresstian to whom it is referred nor those who will apply it from the title of this law can figure out what it is, nor can the public understand what it is. We are here at night discussing the proposal for a law on international restrictive measures. What's that? So, as is the vague content, the name of the law, the content is also unclear, that is, the application of this law comes into question and we care very much for it to be applicable, the colleague Doric also spoke about it. It's a miracle and it really confuses that the government has not in any way popularized the adoption and announced the adoption of such an important law that we recognize what it really should be, as an important anti-mafia law. It is neither recognised as such in these measures by governmental nor as such, but it should be in its content and have indications that it is, but in the implementation and the measures which elaborate it, that is, which elaborate and apply that law, and also to those who need to apply it and how it will apply it, remains very questionable and the outcome of all of this remains very questionable. It is here that we are discussing very serious matters, and how as a state we should be successful against mob organisations who do not know the borders and who, of course, whose danger the United Nations sees, the Security Council of the United Nations, the European Union, and we have also verbally recognised it in the streets of bloody reckonings and murders of the most innocent people. The law, therefore, should first and foremost change its name. When the Law on International Restrictive Measures was passed, the same thing is not known, and now the Government itself acknowledges that its effects and efficiency were almost nothing, or should be seen, and no one has ever wondered all these years, nor has the government found there for what the effects of the Restrictive Measures Act are today in force, which should replace this law. How much property has been frozen, not by court decisions, but by the application of this law, because this law requires something else, it requires something more. Not court decisions. That's the second part, that's the fate of the government, that comes from the post-vestum. Here in the introduction, i.e. the assessment of the situation and the fact that judgment and all those measures come post-vesum, when evil has already been done. So, just like this mobster money and their assets they're buying, which are drugs, weapons, etc., cut right in the beginning, and what every single state can and must do. So, here it is mentioned in this introduction, which is the obligation of the state, when these measures are taken by the state, according to a particular other country, which would, in this way, be criminally treated by some international institutions, but also by individuals with a name and last name. Now we're here on very one slide and vague terrain. There is no telling who will take such measures. He says the government is taking the Republic of Croatia, will make a decision to introduce restrictive measures that prescribe the application of restrictive measures depending on the case and determines the type of restrictive measures, the way in which they are applied, the duration and the surveillance of the application. Is that what she brings for a specific person? That's nothing to say. Who will make those decisions? In fact, it is very serious decisions, especially when it comes to natural persons, and this should be done either by a court or by a special body. In this article, Article 11 merely lists the role of the court, when, exceptionally from that provision of the restrictions on the availability of property, when it comes to freezing property, it will nevertheless decide on some exceptions. But then who decides on these measures? So let's not realize that we really want to pass a law like this so that we can figure it out in front of the European Union, that we've passed the law, and we don't really want it to be applied. It remains very dubious, or we wonder why the government has not indicated this as a significant antimafian religion. This is one of the strongest laws. You can even see in that introduction to the assessment of the situation, when the law was passed, too... , no one knew what this was about, the Law on International Restrictive Measures, which is now in force, but it was nice to explain that this law was precisely, that the aim of this law was to establish the functioning of the body of the state administration applying these international restrictive measures, acting as follows, under the provisions of the following laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there was also the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, and the Law on the Rules, Methods and Conditions of Reporting of USKOK, the USKOK Act, the Law on Movement and residence of foreigners, then the Law on the Production, Transport and Trade of Arms and Military Equipment. This is necessary, because there are specific measures there and now it should be included and we should see who brings these measures. Is that a court of law? Here you get even in some... Something is mentioned in court, but not as detailed as it should be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So is that a municipal court? Is that a civil court? Is that outsider, is that criminal? There's not a word about that. It's inapplicable, and it's very serious stuff. Therefore, what consequences this law will produce. I'm almost as afraid of the same thing as the Law on International Restrictive Measures. Here, in the state of the art assessment, we're talking about what are related measures. They are diverse, which brings the Security Council, the European Union and other measures of international organisations to which the Republic of Croatia is yet to join. So we know who the source is and what our provisions are. Now how does it come to be applied? Here is mentioned among other things about freezing financial resources and some law on it and speaking. The last one didn't say that. This speaks for the provision of Article 11, but there is no telling who will bring a restriction on the freezing of assets. Is that a court? It is mentioned only in Article 12 when the court will exceptionally allow these funds to be used. So then some analogy might also conclude that it will be in charge, but it will not come to the competition of jurisdiction whether it is the courts or the administrative bodies, but about the rejection and declaring of incompetence. And there will be no standoff of good here in the law who, at the end of the day, would be the administrative court or constitutional, when it comes to the conflict of jurisdiction of the state authorities, be able to determine which state body it is. And in the end, it's done serious things. Why does the law, if it speaks of different measures in the assessment of the situation, talk about freezing, talk about the seizing of assets, talk about the ban on the business of certain banks, and the law only discusses freezing of assets and only partially. There is no word in the law on how to make the loot, who will do it, who and how will ban the business with individual banks, or other financial institutions. The only thing is said, and here is possible political abuse, if someone is blocked by his property or his company, the fine law says this bill is that the state of the Republic of Croatia, which has resulted in such measures, is not responsible for the damage. Well, he can't do that. It's serious stuff. We want and we feel that we need this law very badly, but once again we warn, we are seriously warning as we warned four years ago, when it's so quiet, because some media have recognized there that maybe the property was seized or the freezing of the property of those indictees in The Hague, or they were supposed to go to The Hague, so somehow it was a law to be passed without being recognized as that. And now things are different, but we haven't made a substantial step yet. The serious question is therefore, we are fighting here and we want to join as a country that joins the European Union, as a country that is very energetic in the fight against mobsters of an organised gang, which is doing great damage around the world. Well, we saw it in Croatia. They are organized, organized as a company and are strictly, almost as a military enterprise, strictly hierarchical, and in article 12, that is, forgive Article 5. The government will fight them in a way that will form a group. A group against organized crime and crime. We even had an interdepartmentary body in the previous law, where the interior minister, the minister of justice, finance, foreign affairs, came under official duty. Now there's not even that inter-resor body anymore, but a group. So it is not necessary to look at Klaicev and Anic's dictionary that by definition it is a group, a crowd of people who discuss something like this, but who do not have such powers, nor such power that they can in one serious way oppose, or not just that kind of dangerous crime, but to fulfill these tasks which are truly successful from us as a country that joins the European Union and which has declared that this is its solution in the fight against terrorism. Why do we mention this in particular, we will once again, here I am on behalf of the SDP Club, noting what experts, independent European Commission experts have said about Croatia. In Croatia, mobsters become prominent businessmen, authors of the aforementioned report that Croatia's El Dorado is new to the laundromats, that they are not created in Croatia, that they are not able to trace the illegally acquired money and the money that has been seized. We have heard what will happen during the procedure, that property will be taken away from such persons and that the state is not obliged to prove to them, but that they must eventually prove otherwise that it is acquired in a legal way. That's definitely necessary. It's a shame we didn't have it before when we asked for it on behalf of the SDP club and for amendments to the criminal law. But all in the post-fest, all that comes later. That is why we need what the independent experts of the European Commission who are speaking just now, who are dealing with organised crime, are warning what is needed in Croatia. They also note that criminal cases under special investigation should be resolved within a certain period. And we here don't know which bodies are going to implement these restrictive measures, or restrictive measures. Here I am praying here indeed to the government's representative as much as he is able to answer now or that in some way we are supporting the adoption of this law, because this is difficult and repairable. You know, it's hard to fix if these are serious things, the law is insane. The last one had 7 articles, now it has 20 articles and will challenge, we will embarrass ourselves as a country that could not apply, even if she wanted to apply it under such a law. Therefore, we are looking for answers, if possible before the vote of this law, who will make decisions on certain not only freezing measures, but also on the pedestal of those assets, on the prohibition of business with individual banks, but also on all other different measures that must be at least if not taxed, then collectively cumulatively in each norm indicated in order to know how these measures are taken. The same way we see it here, and this is the government's special apostrophe that this law also adopts criminal norms. It's not normal. So it's not technically right for you to prescribe first fines, then alternatively and then jail time, and then about 5 years. So what's the norm? A fine or a fine of up to five years. But I'm not surprised, this isn't just the matter of the Foreign Ministry, this law was supposed to be made in close cooperation with the Department of Justice. It's not possible to nomotechnically like this. And the question is, are you bringing this crime here? So the crime must be prescribed in criminal law. The truth is there are cases that crimes are found in some other laws, but then you have to have incrimination. You can't say who doesn't act by government's decision will go to jail for five years. Who's going to judge that? They're going to judge the administrative bodies, they're going to judge the criminal, the government. Here's what Mr. Hebrang says, so it could be excluded from this that the government is going to decide that someone is going to go to jail, and that I think you understand the procedure. It's good, and that's the answer, but then the question is, who will the government be answering? Well, there's something here that you're throwing at me. So, these are serious remarks that the sentence of 5 years has been prevented, that you do not know why, and you have a fundamental principle of modern criminal law dating back to the 18th century... /There is no translation. /... therefore there is no criminal offence if it is not defined as incrimination and for which a certain penalty is provided, and for which punishment is never yet in the history of not only Croatia, but I do not know what right has not been provided in this way. So, a fine or a five-year prison sentence. But then, like norm 15, Article 15 is what everyone else is. So we express serious concern that any of this law will be applicable for the simple reason it is set is neither possible to apply it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr Bozinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much to the distinguished MPs. What should be distinguished from this law, and that's his name. It is therefore the Law on the application of international restrictive measures. It is therefore international measures adopted by the international institutions of the organisation and their application within the Croatian legislation. We can talk about whether it's the happiest term, because they can be restrictive measures, they can be restrictive measures, they can be sanctions, because that's what this is about. So the decisions on which the issue has been raised here are, for example, a United Nations Security Council resolution or a common position by the European Union, and we, by this law, are now the difference, or perhaps this is the reason for some misunderstanding. We don't make decisions, we don't make lists, we don't determine who it's about. This decision shall be applied by the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government shall apply by its decision the decision of the European Union or the decision of the Security Council of the United Nations that it may apply that sanction within the Croatian legal system. So, please. ... Here's what this is all about, it's all about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, in the opening part, it is described that it is done and what the restrictive measures are, then what they may be, which is property in terms of freezing within the meaning of this law, after what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing when it applies, when therefore some international organisation that we are a member of whether the Security Council, whether the European Union makes such a decision. And to be clear, not that this law can bring us into conflict with good practice within the European Union. This is a law that was made according to the law of the countries that entered the European Union, so according to the way you see it if you want one Slovenia in particular, one Slovakia or I do not know which laws we had in mind apply the European Union Decision on restrictive measures. So this is not about something that is necessary and not only necessarily but something is happening on the streets of Croatia. This is about us actually putting ourselves in the position of international efforts to deal with the issue of international terrorism, the bearer of international crime. It is not part of these laws that are mentioned in Croatia in the context of judicial reform and so on. This is the application of the Security Council sanctions, this is the application of the sanctions of the European Union which calls those sanctions restrictive measures into the Croatian legal system. So we do not analyse the reasons why someone is on the list, it is a decision to make it I said in the opening letter, so by consensus of the Member States through the decision-making procedure as already decided in the European Union. The European Union has adopted that decision and automatically this decision becomes something that all Member States of the European Union must apply, whether to freeze, whether or not the property, whether to prevent entry into the territory of the European Union and so on. In this context, Croatia is already seeking to adapt to good practice and European Union legislation, and there is the whole philosophy. And if I may, Mr. Vice President, just say so, thank you for Mr. Honorable Representative Doric's remarks. You see, the practice of adopting these resolutions has just led to a reduction in the time limit in which these data are archived or stored. At this point, the European average is three years. For example, Slovenia has a three-year average and has already prepared a one-year change in data storage. That is why we and because of our specificity, let's say so on a deadline that is above and we can say more than 50% above the average of the European Union but we did not want to go for ten years again. We don't think there's enough reason for that, and I told you at the beginning of the intensities all these measures to be subject to review that if you want us to be able to reward someone who's dealt with some illegal activities in the past, then he decided to do business legally. This is ultimately an intensification of a whole series of provisions of European foreign, common foreign and security policy dealing with and which is, in fact, a political and legal framework for the issue of restrictive measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20217	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20218	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to try not to say it again, but here, on behalf of the HSS Club, I'm going to give and make certain views regarding the support of this bill. The proposal for this law joins the efforts of the International Community, the United Nations, the European Union and other international organisations that the Republic of Croatia wishes to join or is already a member and that, in the area of international restrictive measures, it further formulates determination in order to introduce effective control mechanisms. In particular, in the context of global globalisation processes and the free market, consistent application of international restrictive measures prevents or restricts the movement of certain goods, people and property in cases that can lead to an international threat to security while at the same time strengthening the external and political interests and national security of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the bill makes it clear that different differences are being made to individual countries, or to its natural and legal persons, and seems to be a significant step in further adapting Croatian legislation to European standards. Otherwise, the law will also constitute a legal framework for further upgrading of the legislative framework necessary for the effective application and use of modern effective measures aimed at different entities on economic sanctions, bans on imports and exports of weapons and other military equipment, dual-purpose goods that could serve to produce weapons of mass destruction, financial sanctions that may include freezing of financial resources until assets are seized until business with individual banks or other financial institutions are banned. Also, the restriction of entering or passing through the country by name and last name of those persons. The adjustment procedure to standards in this area proposes provisions that should create a prerequisite for more effective law enforcement for competent authorities and institutions. For example, it clarifies the meaning of the basic concepts used in the law, which are wordingly aligned with the regulations that we have recently discussed and voted on in this Parliament, and above all, I am referring to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. The establishment of the powers, methods and rules of action of the permanent coordination group of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to monitor the implementation of international restrictive measures to monitor and coordinate the application of the restrictive measures under the law, the collection of data on restrictive measures to natural and legal persons as well as other entities to which the restrictive measures will apply shall be established, the obligations of natural and legal persons for the direct application of the measures shall be established and shall be prescribed by the criminal provisions and other provisions which shall assist the enforcement of the law. At the end of our debate, we would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party will support the text of the draft law because this will contribute to the goal of bringing interest into line with our international partners as well as strengthening the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, we hope that the national authorities and institutions responsible for implementing the provisions of this law will contribute fully to the effective implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20219	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here in my opening statement, the secretary of state has been very exhaustive and I think it was comprehensively speaking about the security challenges that may be bigger today than ever, different than ever, more challenging than ever, but he talked about what geopolitical position Croatia will have in the near future, which actually defines some new requirements that are being put before our country. The security issues, and thus international security at the top are the list of priorities of all democratic countries of the world and what has been shown in practice is that international restrictive measures have proved to be one, but one very useful mechanism. They have shown themselves effective in a series of things, control, arms control, preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, preventing the financing of terrorist organisations, as well as of some countries and their institutions that do not respect international agreements. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is also in the context of its own security, but also its responsibilities as members of the United Nations, let us not forget that Croatia is currently one of the non-permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and will very soon preside over this body, that Croatia is a future member of various European Union organisations that are actually concerned with the application of these measures, but in some sense also NATO, the Australian Group and some other organisations dealing with other issues of international security. It is therefore extremely important for Croatia to have a legal framework, a quality framework for the implementation of these measures. Croatia for the first time regulated the issue by a special legal text in 2004 but in practice it has proved that certain measures were flawed, that they did not allow rapid and effective implementation of the measures. Therefore, these are the very things that seek to make this legislative proposal better to regulate the area of international restrictive measures in such a way as to clarify the competences of individual ministries in respect of enforcement and surveillance, as well as to promote criminal and criminal provisions which did not exist in the earlier text. I believe that this law will allow the best possible way in Croatia to implement the relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions, the EU's autonomous measures and the international restrictive measures of other organisations which the Republic of Croatia is today or which will become a member in the future. In the context of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia on full membership in the European Union, this matter is regulated by the area of legal gain in Chapter 31 of the Common, Foreign and Security Policy, and Croatia is currently a candidate country and the future full member will make and make individual decisions on the introduction of certain such measures. Upon entry into the European Union, it will be applied directly in accordance with the provisions of the acquis. And in conclusion, since it is a proposal for a law that contributes to security, above all, security in the country but also security in the international plan, but also that this is another one of the laws that we will take one further step towards the plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20221	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Mr. Secretary of State, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank you, if you allow me, all the honourable MPs and MPs at their discussions, and I would like to conclude for the reason that there is nothing else unclear or in the air in this discussion that I repeat. It is international measures, measures taken by international organisations and institutions to which Croatia is a member. With this law we implement these measures and introduce them into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore decides to apply these international measures to restrictions or restrictive measures or sanctions in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. There were questions about who was implementing it? They shall implement all natural and legal persons in accordance with the tasks of their jurisdiction, Article 10 of this Act. And what this law deals with is, sanctions are prescribed in the event that someone in the Republic of Croatia is legal, whether a natural person violates the provisions of international commitments made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as noted by a respected colleague, Buric-Pejcinovic. It is a law that is valid until the entry into the European Union, and then we become an integral part of the legal gain and direct application of European decisions into the system, the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you for your attention, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20223	Thank you very much. This concludes the fourth point. They'll vote when the conditions are met. And given the time, we will bring to an end today's session that has been both working and active and constructive. Tomorrow at half past ten or President Luka would say nine and a half. We continue with point 7 established and this is the proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid, first reading. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. And I wish you a sequel, a pleasant sequel to the evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20224	4, Final proposal of the Law on International restrictive measures, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 182. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by the HNS Representatives' Club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show himself, Mr. Bozinovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20225	Thank you, Mr. President. The government would remain in the formulation of the bill, given that it is also a trend in the European Union towards reducing the deadlines for keeping records. We believe that this five-year provision fully supports the purpose of keeping data or keeping records regardless of the source, an institution that takes measures to limit whether the European Union, the Security Council resolution of the United Nations and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20226	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20227	The HNS Club is withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2008-11-19-0.u20228	The amendment has been withdrawn. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on International Restricted Measures. Please get involved and let's vote. Score. I find that most votes, 106 votes in favour and 1 abstentions, have adopted the Final Proposal of the Law on International Restricted Measures. We're going to go to six. Proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility and fertilisation procedures with biomedical aid, first reading, P.Z. No. 122 Proposer: The SDP Representatives' Club The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Lawmaking, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the sessions. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Does he? Yeah. Mr. Miranda Mrsic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
